u2023-05-24-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning. I warmly welcome my fellow Members, representatives of the government and colleagues who assist in conducting this meeting. The 22nd day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Béla Mihálffy and Sándor Berki will be notaries of my assistance. I salute everyone who monitors the work of the National Assembly. Dear Parliament, The situation of nationalities living in the territory of Hungary [[January 2019 December 2020]] A joint general debate on the report on the subject and the proposal for a decision on its adoption, pending its conclusion. Government referral B/2418. and the proposal for a decision submitted by the Judicial Committee, H/3666. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Secretary of State, Miklós Soltész, the author of the report. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2023-05-24-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to say hello to you again after last night. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to extend my compliments to the representative of nationality and to the spokesperson and to the representatives of nationality here. The government reviews the situation of nationalities living in Hungary every two years and reports it to the National Assembly, according to the nationality law. The report provides a comprehensive picture of the national minority policy processes for the two years in question, the government initiatives that have been taken to ensure that national minority communities operate as effectively as possible. It reports on events in ethnic culture, media, and processes in the local government sphere. It will focus on the functioning of the Joint Committee on Bipartite Minorities, the processes related to the leaders of embassies, cultural institutions and nationalities. I would like to inform you in Exposem of the report on the situation of nationalities in Hungary for the period 2019-2020. During the reporting period, there was a change in the competences of the national policy area as a result of government restructuring. The Prime Minister's general deputy, the government's member responsible for nationality policy, is responsible for 12 nationalities, while the Minister of Interior is responsible for Roma nationality. Dear Parliament, The present report therefore reviews the reporting period for 13 nationalities, namely Bulgarian, Greek, Croatian, Polish, German, Armenian, Roma, Romanian, Ruthenian, Serbian, Slovak, Slovenian and Ukrainian communities. As you know, Hungary's nationalities joined the Parliament's work after the 2014 parliamentary elections. 13 communities are represented by a minority advocate in Parliament. The first German minority representative and other ethnic spokespersons to join the National Assembly elected in April 2018 continued their dedicated work during the reporting period. Nationalities as members of the Hungarian political community also participate in the legislative work in practice. Everyone has the right to exercise their identity freely. The State undertakes to protect, respect, facilitate the completion of cultural autonomy, ensure and support effective representation of nationalities. A good policy of support helps to develop and operate living, real ethnic communities. The Committee of Hungarian Nationalities has made several amendments to the regulations affecting nationalities during this period. The most significant need for change was in relation to the nationality law. In almost ten years since the entry into force of the legislation in 2011, it was necessary to clarify the issues raised and clarify the legal environment. The cooperation and joint work of the Government and the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities became an eclectic example of the preparation and acceptance of the amendment to the Nationality Act, and then the submission by the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities itself. On 16 June 2020, the Parliament adopted, by a large majority, the amended nationality law following extensive consultations by all the actors. The amended nationality law sets out, in particular, the following changes. Previously, the Nationality Act did not settle the various EU regulations and GDPR regulations on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, including the 2011 CXII on Freedom of Information. In accordance with the law, a particularly sensitive issue relating to the processing of personal data arising from the award of scholarships is justified in view of which the issue has been dealt with at the statutory level. Furthermore, there have been continuous signals from the institutional-keeping nationalities as to the difficulties in the operation of the reserved public education institutions that the maintainer does not have ownership of the property at the place where the task is provided, and therefore the movable and immovable property which, together with the transfer of the maintenance right, is used to carry out the tasks of the public education institution should be transferred to the self-government of the maintenance municipality without delay, but at the latest free of charge until the beginning of the education year or the school year. I note that because of this passage DK did not accept a change in the nationality law. The mandatory public tasks of local self-governments, including newly created local national authorities, as well as the rules on institution creation and take-over have been laid down. From the general election of the representatives of the minority self-government in 2024 to the reduction of the required number from 30 to 25 in the election of the representatives of the local minority self-governments, the operation of a number of minority self-governments created by small settlements and several minority self-governments created by smaller nationalities, will be ensured. I would add that in the days we may be changing this number further by amending the legislation. The detailed rules on the right of agreement granted to the national minority self-government and the guarantee rules relating to the failure to act in cooperation with the local self-government and the local minority self-government have been established. The amendment provides for the right to appeal to national authorities, provided that no case directly affecting nationality rights falling within the remit of the local government is dealt with. It was also an important goal to look at ensuring the functioning of the national representative bodies and the clarification of the personal conditions of their capacity. With the amendment, the cases of the termination of the mandate of the representative of the minority self-government have been extended to include Article 87 of the Nationality Act. § 3 on the date of the interim election, and the non-compliance of the representative with his obligation to make a declaration of assets after 90 days. [[9.10]] All this in order to ensure that the Member's failure to fulfil obligations beyond 90 days does not render the small number of municipal ethnic representative bodies inoperative; the amendment regulates the legal consequences of the Member's failure to fulfil this obligation. It has also been clarified that the public hearing is a form of the representative board meeting, the practical importance of which is particularly relevant for the task-based support of national authorities when examining the conditions for entitlement to it. In addition to the above, the voluntary public tasks of the national minority self-government were supplemented by the establishment and maintenance of a social care institution with the permission of the minister concerned. With this amendment, it will be possible in the future for our fellow nationalities to experience this identity practically from birth to the last moment of their lives. There has also been a guarantee that the textbooks should be available free of charge to pupils participating in national education. In addition, the amendment made a number of text-focusing amendments to ensure consistency and clarity in the application of the law. This change of legislation is one of the most important parts of the reporting period. Ladies and gentlemen, In order to compile the government report, we requested information from ministries, background institutions, metropolitan and county government offices, county assemblies, national minority governments and their advocates, the representative, the media authority, the Equal Treatment Authority, the Hungarian Statistical Office and the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. Allow me to highlight some of the decisive measures in the report. Central resources for the functioning of national authorities and their institutions increased significantly during the reporting period. The funds concern the following main areas: National minority authorities had nearly HUF 1.7 billion available in 2019 to carry out their operational, compulsory and voluntary tasks and to carry out their tasks related to ethnic media; this figure exceeded HUF 1.7 billion in 2020. In both years, the operating and task-based budget support of municipal and regional minority municipalities amounted to HUF 2 billion and HUF 145 million. The role of kindergartens and schools is outstanding in the transfer of language and culture. In recent years, national and municipal self-governments have already undertaken to maintain and maintain 95 public education institutions in the period under consideration, and are now 103 public education institutions. The support of the institutions maintained by the national minority self-governments comes directly to the maintainer. For this purpose, despite the difficulties caused by the coronal virus, the government provided HUF 1 billion for each year. The National Roma Municipality provided HUF 2 billion 950 million in 2019 to carry out its operational, compulsory and voluntary tasks and its tasks related to ethnic media, while in 2020 it increased this support by HUF 360 million with a new appropriation. The operational and task-based budget support of the local and regional Roma ethnic authorities was HUF 1 billion 638 million in 2019 and increased to HUF 1 billion 734 million in 2020. The central resources allocated to nationality policy are also provided in the cultural and research fields. From 2015 we have been able to support and provide funding for the development aid objectives of individual ethnic institutions through a tender titled "Nationalities institutions" to support, invest, refurbish, and tender. Support for projects aimed at national minority communities was launched in 2020 as a new appropriation during the Covid epidemic. This appropriation is intended to cover, in accordance with the relevant legal requirements and in a manner and through the submission of individual applications, the operational support of national minority civil society organisations; the supplementary operational and development support of national minority institutions; the promotion of a culture of nationality, support for the implementation of ethnicity camps in the linguistic environment; support for the implementation of educational further training programmes organised in the mother country; the prize for nationalities and its transfer ceremony; the coverage of the minority study scholarship; the coverage of the Roma ethnicity study scholarship, the coverage of the Travel Scholarship Programme; support for the additional expenditure on the expansion of duties in relation to the taking-over of nationalities institutions and various other necessary grants, together with the many grants. The funding of national minority media is also ongoing, and the budget provides resources for the editing, publishing and displaying of the mother tongue newspapers and programmes of nationalities through national authorities. The budget also specifically supports churches' public-service institutions, as there are a number of national language education courses throughout the country. Historical churches place emphasis on the provision of pastoral services in the language of nationality. For example, the Hungarian Catholic Church in German, Slovak, Croatian, Polish and Slovenian languages, the Hungarian Metropolitan Church, the Greek Catholic Church in Ruthenian, Ukrainian and Romanian, the Romanian Orthodox Church in Romanian and the Evangelical Church in Hungary in German and Slovak. The religious communities in Hungary also play a significant role in the inclusion of the Roma through the Gypsy Pastorship and the Roma Mission. Among the churches, the presence of Catholic, Reformed, Evangelical, Pentecostal, Methodist and Baptist Gypsy pastoral missions is outstanding. One of the bodies of the Roma Coordination Council, which was established in 2017, is the Gypsy Pastoral Policy Board. The government commends the work of religious communities to help the Roma catch up, the prayer houses in settlements inhabited by the Roma, which have become the scenes of everyday life in the community. The report sets out in detail the government's steps towards social inclusion. The Inter-Party Committee on Social Catch-up and Gypsy Affairs, in cooperation with the Government, helps to improve the living conditions and social integration of people with long-term needs. Education is a priority among programmes to help Roma catch up in society. An important element of this is the creation of a complex institutional network to ensure successful completion from kindergarten through secondary school to higher education; thus, as a key element, the Gandhi High School, College and Primary Art School, which is Hungary and Europe's first institution giving Roma ethnic maturity. [[9.20]] The aim of the child's house is to provide assistance to a Roma child with serious socialisation deficiencies in the majority of the children, with the involvement of parents at an early stage of life. The compulsory kindergarten will give underprivileged young children a chance to start a successful school. In 2019-20, 95.7 percent of children aged four years were in kindergarten and the EU average was 1 percent lower. School programmes help students in difficult social conditions, especially those of primary school age, with extracurricular employment. From 2019, the government contributed HUF 2 billion 507 million in central budget resources to their operation. In 2019, nearly 5,800 children in 196 schools and in 2020, 5,200 students had a complex personality development. The decline is obviously the period of the Covid epidemic. The Travel Scholarship programme aims to promote the training of disadvantaged students, including Roma students:, Travel to the secondary school,.,. Travel to the university,. Travel to the profession,.,. Travel to higher education, as well as to the diploma. A new system for reducing early school leaving has been developed, giving students the opportunity to catch up in an individualised, student-centred, individualized learning and learning environment. Based on data on the system's operation so far, the proportion of students at risk of drop-out was still 10.85 per cent in 2017, and this figure fell to 6.8 per cent by 2020. The Christian Roma College Network, a unique initiative in Europe, focuses on training Roma intellectuals. During this period, 11 such schools had 328 students. In 2019 and 2020, measures to support the school success of disadvantaged and cumulative disadvantaged children, including Roma children and pupils, took place in the context of the implementation of the medium-term strategy against unskilled school leaving. Targeted actions have been taken to strengthen access to quality education to support the successful progress of vulnerable student groups in school. Dear Parliament, In order to prevent and prevent segregation in schools, in 2019 and 2020, the Education Office organised a series of support workshops for school-supporting district centres and school management in the framework of an EU project. The role of the workshop is to facilitate the implementation of the host education organisation, the implementation of the desegregation objectives, to ensure that local education management provides a comprehensive analysis of the situation and can analyse it. The preservation of the Roma ethnic culture also plays a key role in social catch-up. In the field of traditionalism, art and amateur art activities, Roma nationality has the greatest activity. In September 2019 the Ministry of the Interior issued a special tender to support the implementation of Roma cultural events and the availability of cultural content and products. In 2020, he also launched a basic music education programme, which supported the successful launch of 266 candidates. Ladies and Gentlemen, During the reporting period, the autumn 2019 minority self-government elections played a key role. National voters could choose municipal, regional, i.e. county and capital, as well as national self-governments. In the reporting period, the municipal elections in 2019 are characterised by the following figures and figures. With regard to national electoral data, the total number of national minority voters was 317 793 in 2019. The number of voters in the election was 194,270, so compared to the 64 percent participation rate in 2014, this rate was 72 percent in 2019, which represents a huge change and increase, while the Roma nationality had an election participation of around 50 percent, to be exact, 56 percent. A valid local minority self-government election was held in more than two thousand settlements, with a total of 2189 settlements, of which 2179 were formed after the elections. According to regional electoral data, the Roma ethnicity could hold elections at the territorial level of 19, the German 15 and the Croatian 7, the Slovak 6, the Romanian 5, the Serbian and the Ruthenian 2-2, the Bulgarian, the Greek, the Polish, the Armenian and the Ukrainian nationalities, while the Slovenian territorial elections were not possible. During the year 2020 a new body was successfully elected in three settlements in an interim election. In the context of national and local authorities, it should be pointed out that the local government of the village Rátka in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county does not only maintain the local government but also provides the local government, which is unique. Since 1994, in addition to the municipalities of the municipalities and counties, the minority authorities have had the right to express their views or to agree on the most important issues of community life, culture and language use, and it is very important that they do so. Ladies and Gentlemen, On the basis of the information received from government agencies, the report concludes that nationality authorities operate in accordance with the legislation. And to conclude, I would like to give you a summary series of numbers. We examined the period of two years, the years 2019-20. The report also shows important and serious numbers. But part of a process is these two years, a process that started in 2010. At the time, without educational support, the support of Hungarian ethnicities was HUF 3.6 billion, and by 2020 this figure increased to HUF 23.2 billion. In 2010, national authorities maintained 12 educational and educational institutions, which increased to 95 by 2020. With regard to Roma catch-up, it is very important to have the sequence of numbers I have said and the many, many steps we have taken over the past few years. However, it is important to note that, based on European statistics, the figure of 28,6 percent of society was exposed to social exclusion and poverty in 2010 in Hungary was reduced to 19.3 percent by 2021, i.e. 10-11 years later, while the EU average was higher by more than 2 percent that year, i.e. in 2021, as the European Union's statisticians measured 21.7 percent. Thank you very much to all those involved in the preparation of this report. Thank you very much for the active participation in social life of national leaders, such as the representative and advocates, national, regional and local leaders, and, of course, civil society organisations, as well as all those who support, support and sustain their lives. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-24-2	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, President of the Committee on Justice, the author of the motion for a decision. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-05-24-3	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. Law 150. § (a) requires the government to review the situation of nationalities living in Hungary every two years and report it to the Parliament. [[9.30]] In accordance with the legal requirements, the Government's report on the period from January 2019 to December 2020 B/2418. No 2022 was submitted to the National Assembly at the end of 2022, which was discussed as a committee designated at the meeting of the Committee on Justice, which was responsible for the tasks and powers of the Committee on 18 April 2023. In the Committee's view, the report informs Parliament, in accordance with the legislation, of the national minority policy processes of the last two years, of the events in ethnic education, culture and media, as well as of the processes taking place in national governments. The Committee acknowledged the government's efforts to improve the situation of national minorities, in particular with regard to the inclusion of Roma, and welcomed the increase in the number of public education institutions maintained by national authorities, and increased support for the education of national minority teachers. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Committee on Justice shall be responsible for the implementation of Article B/2418. 8 votes in favour, 4 votes in favour, without abstention, and proposed to the Parliament for adoption. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-24-4	Thank you. It is now up to the voice of the minority spokesperson invited by the minority representative committee. I give the floor to Serbian ethnic advocate Alexov Lyubomir, who describes the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language and then translates them into Hungarian. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-24-5	[[???Köszönöm a szót, elnök úr. Poštovani gospodine Predsedniče! Poštovana Skupštino! U ime Narodnosnog odbora u Mađarskoj i u svoje ime pozdravljam Vas s Poštovanjem!???]] Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The Committee of Hungarian Nationalities on the situation of nationalities living in Hungary B/2418. At its meeting held on 18 April 2023, she discussed and formulated her position. In its report on the state of nationalities living in Hungary, the Government will present in detail all the work it has done in the area of national minority policy between January 2019 and December 2020. The factual data show a multitude of ethnic education, culture, and investments and developments closely linked to them. The government's main national policy objective is to provide members of the 13 nationalities native to our country with the possibility of living their nationality individually and in the Community. Cooperation is essential for the direction of nationality policy to be taken forward. The ministries of state in charge of ethnic matters, the leaders of national governments and the national minority advocates are, to say, in a daily relationship with each other and tend to care for them, of course, not to leave the Member out of this. However, matters relating to nationality policy often involve the work of wallets in other fields, especially in the fields of education and culture, where it is necessary and essential to take into account the interests of nationality and to promote the achievement of these interests. The primary event of the year 2019 was the election of the minority self-government, as Mr. State Secretary said. Looking back on the electoral data, it can be concluded that those belonging to the nationality are actively and in a very high percentage thinking that the existence of a local government organisation is necessary. The elections show that elections were held in more settlements than four years ago. For us, this means that nationality policy is in the right direction. Nationals consider it important to express their identity in their places of residence, to live their nationality in an organized and united way. As regards the period of the report, I would like to talk about the budget of Parliament's legislative processes and the overall amendment of the nationality law. In drawing up the annual budget, the establishment of a framework for the appropriations for nationality was characterised by consensus. The representatives of the nationalities of Hungary dream of their vision, in which well-equipped educational and educational institutions, the education of nationalities, the community squares of nationality, cultural institutions, ethnic theatre and thousands of other things still to be realized. However, plans and reality may not coincide, so long coordination is required each year to compile the budget. Annual resources make it possible to maintain, build, improve and strengthen nationality. The other important issue was the 2020 amendment of the Nationalities Act, which updated the rules on nationalities and introduced some of the elements that have become due in the meantime. In November, Dr. Szalayné Dr. Erzsébet Sándor was once again elected Deputy Commissioner for the Protection of the Rights of Nationalities in Hungary. The Deputy Commissioner is aware of the situation of nationalities in Hungary, and her daily work is characterised by outstanding cooperation. In 2020, nationalities focused on the census and the preparation of the census that was due in spring 2021. In January 2020, the conciliation processes started to address the issues of nationality on the questionnaire. As a novelty, the census will only be carried out electronically by the counter-ocks and the possibility of completing the questionnaire independently via the Internet. The representatives of the nationalities were actively involved in the consultations, with a response and a guarantee at all points of the survey. At the time, we didn't know that the corona virus pandemic was going to override the time of the census. During these two years, a number of resources have enabled the self-management of nationalities at national, regional and municipal level. The national minority self-government is designed to support the media, to provide and develop national cultural autonomy, and to support institutions maintained by national ethnic authorities in support of the operation, development or establishment of ethnic cultural, educational and educational institutions. Support for local and regional minority self-governments was also made up of two parts during this period: one is operating aid, which is divided in proportion to census data, the other part is task-based support, which is distributed according to a specific system of criteria on the basis of the nationality public tasks carried out in the previous year. The report contains in detail and in summary the support of individual nationalities in 2019 for the 13 nationalities. Nor did they miss out on wage compensation for the maintenance of national minority institutions, and the amounts of aid were corrected each year. During this period, the categories of national minority applications were also opened, allowing the organisation of ethnic cultural programmes, the functioning of ethnic NGOs, the implementation of traditional camps and the further education of ethnic educators. In both years, it was also possible to grant aid on the basis of individual applications. The report shows in tabular form the purpose for which nationalities have applied for these amounts. It can be seen that most of these funds have been used to renovate and develop schools, kindergartens, educational centres, thus promoting education, education, and our vision of education and culture. Support should also be given to investment, renovation and maintenance activities for ethnicity in 2020, which have provided effective support for the implementation of investment, renovation and maintenance activities linked to cultural, public education, scientific, religious and community-building goals. [[9.40]] In the area of nationality, education and education are perhaps the most important and prime pillars. In order to preserve and pass on their language and culture to indigenous nationalities in Hungary, ethnic educators have a prominent role to play. The government considers it important and supports the increase in the efficiency of the number of young people who choose to be a national educator and the education of nationality educators, as well as the retention of teachers already working on the field. To this end, the nationality allowance for teachers increased to 30 per cent of the salary base in 2019 and to 40 per cent of the salary base in 2020. The teaching of nationalities is typically conducted in traditional higher education institutions looking back on the past of several decades as a national education teacher. There are many challenges in creating the conditions for training because the maintenance of small-scale courses is not without problems. We need to argue and work constantly to ensure that these small-scale courses are expanded on the one hand and that they receive financial support on the other. In the sector, nationalities are also provided with a scholarship for education and education, a scholarship programme for national education and education, and a scholarship programme for national education and education. In particular, I would like to highlight the support and incentive of catching up in relation to Roma nationality. Without the need for completeness, I mention the Roma ethnic education scholarship, the Travel Scholarship Programme. Mr. Secretary of State has listed these, so I'm not going to repeat it. The area of ethnic education also includes the promotion of the development of ethnic teaching materials and the acquisition of national minority textbooks. The textbook lists a total of 750 ethnic textbooks, and textbooks are usually provided for the education of ethnic language and literature, ethnicity popular knowledge, as well as the subjects of public knowledge taught in ethnic language. National education and education are also supported by the National Education Education Centre of the Education Office. During the reporting period, 19 research projects related to nationalities were supported under the National Scientific Research Fund. The second pillar of nationality is the preservation of national culture, which includes public culture and traditionalism. I would like to start by talking about the play of nationality, which, in addition to entertainment, has the task of promoting the creation and presentation of works born in the language of nationalities in Hungary. The report also lists the national theatres and the amounts of support that contribute to their operation, and each year one of the largest and widest public introductions and the present/Lét national minority theatre festivals, the home of which is the National Theatre. The collection of material monuments of Hungarian ethnicities is covered by the Ethnographic Museum, the Open-air Museum of Ethnography, numerous ecclesiastical collections and settlement institutions. There are many elements of the present or past traditions related to the identity of the national minority, as well as the built and tangible heritage of the national minority. Mother tongue is the third pillar of nationality. The government also supports nationalities in the ecclesiastical area, helps the churches to preserve faith and religious practice in a native language, and provides many opportunities for the renovation and maintenance of churches. The consensual element of ethnic communities is the holding of church holidays, the mother tongue prayer. In addition to exercising faith, the church is a community space in which ethnic identity can be fulfilled and community spirit can be strengthened. This year, as always, the award for nationality and the donation of the Pro Cultura Minoritatum Hungariae Prize were also awarded for outstanding work for nationalities. In the area of international relations, I would like to mention the functioning of the joint minority committees on nationalities, where we monitor the bilateral cooperation of nationalities on minorities and the implementation of the principles laid down in the bilateral treaties on them. Finally, the national minority mother tongue media and its support. This one area in nationality policy still leaves something to be desired, and we may not be able to reach a reassuring common ground here for quite some time. The Hungarian state has provided only the Hungarian nationalities with a full radio network with national coverage 24 hours a day, which would be really welcome if the nationality radio was not broadcast on a mid-wave. This frequency is perfectly captureable on the old Sokol radio, but not on these new-made devices and car radios. We have often indicated our problem in many forums, and from here we ask that we find a solution to this problem. In the case of public television, we would also like to point out that the supply and equipment status of the rural national minority programme editors has reached the critical level, and we have been trying for years to ensure that our national programmes are also visible in prime time. Morning and morning or early afternoon radiations do not reach the desired target audience. Finally, I would like to express my thanks on behalf of all 13 nationalities in Hungary for an unbroken and forward-looking ethnic policy. The government constantly provides opportunities and resources for our culture, language and faith to survive. I wish to continue on this path, because nationalities make our country more colorful, beautiful and richer. The Committee of Hungarian Nationalities supports the B/2418 on the situation of nationalities living in Hungary. on the adoption of accounts No 1. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of governing parties and ethnic advocates.]]
u2023-05-24-6	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Csaba Nagy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-05-24-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman of the Nationalities. Nationalist Spokespersons! Dear Secretary of State, The 2011 CLXXIX on the status of nationalities. Law 150. On the basis of point (a) of Section 4 of the Act, the Government submitted to Parliament its two-year report on the situation of nationalities. The Judicial Committee, as a committee responsible for tasks and powers, discussed the report at its meeting on 18 April 2023 and concluded that it provided detailed information to the Parliament on the situation of nationalities living in the territory of Hungary in accordance with the legislation, and therefore supported its adoption. On this basis, the Judicial Committee shall be responsible for the implementation of Articles B/2418 and B/2418. Recommends to Parliament for adoption. The Justice Committee of the Parliament is the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. Law No. 28 The situation of nationalities living in the territory of Hungary [[January 2019 December 2020]] The proposal for a decision adopting the report on the situation of nationalities living in Hungary (January 2019 December 2020) was submitted pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Article. The report before us on the situation of Bulgarian, Greek, Croatian, Polish, German, Armenian, Roma, Romanian, Ruthenian, Serbian, Slovak, Slovenian and Ukrainian nationalities in Hungary has already been presented in detail by State Secretary Miklós Soltész. If I may, I would like to go through the main points of the report. From 2010, the new government based on national cooperation decided to establish as close cooperation as possible with nationalities living in our country. The government has achieved this goal systematically over the past 13 years, despite the temporary difficulties, such as the pandemic or the war situation in our neighbourhood, each year. The remarkable development that has characterised the processes of domestic ethnicity policy since 2010 reflects an upward trend in the period under consideration. This trend is characteristic of all areas, particularly on the main corner points. I am thinking here about what has happened in ethnic education, culture, the media, and progress in the institutional and municipal spheres. [[9.50]] Indeed, the 2019-2020 report provides a comprehensive overview of the work that took place during the reporting period in the area of domestic nationality policy. By reading the widely prepared 354 pages, we can find that the Government of Hungary grants outstanding support to the nationalities living with us internationally. I believe that cooperation can also be exemplary for Europe today, thanks to government initiatives and the activity of ethnic communities. As a matter of interest, I would like to note that, as of 1 January 2023, not only the identity cards, but also the passports include the possibility of using nationality names by transferring our ethnic citizens from the register. And it is perhaps interesting to say that Hungary is actively pursuing national rights as widely as possible in the international context, including the development of domestic relations, support for cross-border programmes, the fulfilment of our country's obligations arising from international documents and contacts with international organisations. The government will give all the help of nationalities living in our country to live and preserve their identity every day and to pass it on to future generations. I believe that the partnership with the Hungarian nationalities is also extremely important from a national strategic point of view. If I may, I would like to highlight one or two facts from this 354-page report in a completely subjective way. The national elections in 2019 were elections at municipal, regional, county and capital and at national level; 273 municipalities were able to form at municipal elections. I think it is very important that national minority authorities now maintain 31 public education institutions, which can be proven by the report. The municipalities managed to manage 67 of these institutions until the reporting period. This has now increased to 103 institutions. I was also surprised that the number of textbooks for ten nationalities, as has already been said, reached 750. And I'm also glad that the Education Office has appointed base institutions for national education and education, which is now up to 23. I think it is important that the minority educator programme has also emerged, as in 2018 the bonus was 10 percent, which has already increased to 40 percent by 2020. And I am also very pleased that the teaching scholarship programme has now been fully completed, as it has also reached teachers, teachers, teachers, students in the field of teaching, and teachers in the field of ethnicity. It is also important for me to mention to you that I was able to participate in the Roma Public Life Forum in Baranya County, which was held in Siklós last weekend, with a large number of mayors, minority self-governments and representatives of civil society organisations, as well as Attila Stojka, the government commissioner responsible for Roma relations. This event has also strengthened our work together and our thinking together. As an individual representative of 174 Western Baranya settlements, I participate in the events, events and celebrations of the settlements of my constituency on a number of occasions, where we can rejoice together with the local ethnicities. This is of particular importance in my constituency, Western Baranya, where, among other things, there are large German, Croatian and Roma communities. I also think it is important to highlight it in a non-targeted way, but it is an important source - nationalities can also make a very significant profit from the Hungarian financial framework provided by the.Magyar választály.For example, community spaces for the existence of nationalities will be created and modernised, schools with ethnic education will be expanded and renewed. I trust that the Hungarians living in over a hundred years of torn areas will also receive the support they deserve and respect in the Carpathian Basin, as the Hungarian ethnicities will receive at home. Unfortunately, in many cases, the rights that are essential to our community, which seem so natural to us, are being undermined, I am thinking of the use of mother tongue, the expression and representation of our cultural values, or the access to language education. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In view of what has been said, I would ask the honourable Members to discuss and accept the proposal for a decision tabled by the Committee on Justice. The Fidesz Group supports the adoption of the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-24-8	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Zoltán Vajda, the lead speaker of the MSZP group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-05-24-9	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, 2019-2020 was a dark period in the life of equal treatment in Hungary, which unfortunately also affected the situation of nationalities in Hungary. The elimination of the Equal Treatment Authority in 2020 has drastically reduced the number of cases of equal treatment. The Directorate-General for Equal Treatment, which took over the tasks of EBA, the Equal Treatment Authority, and which operates in the Ombudsman's Office, reported that in 2021, almost half of the complaints about equal treatment fell in 2021, one year after the termination of the Authority. Here's the number: 462 from the former 868. Similar problems have occurred across the country. The Working Party of the Council of Europe on Racism and Anti-discrimination also expressed strong concerns about the negative impact of the abolition of the national equal treatment referral network, which was a key network for assisting victims of discrimination and providing support in legal proceedings and for the effective performance of the Authority's promotional and preventive tasks. With regard to the enforcement of equal treatment, it was found that the apparent significant reduction in the number of discrimination cases was partly due to the lack of clear information on the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights' website. In this respect, they were surprised to find that the Authority's extensive expertise and experience, including its publications and surveys, as well as its legal resources, which were available on the user-friendly website, were not fully available on the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights website. It is also recalled that in 2019-2020 compensation was granted to Roma students in Gyöngyöspata. Why did Roma students have to be compensated? Well, I'm telling you, because they were first assigned to separate classes because of their Roma origins, they hardly met any non-Roma children because they were on separate floors. The second is that they were not allowed to go to the carnival, they were not taken on a class trip, they were not given IT classes, and they were not allowed to participate in swimming lessons. However, they barely wanted to pay compensation to children; they kept trying to find a way out, a way out, in order to maintain segregation for years, so that children could continue to be disfellowshipped. Orbán also responded to the case, but instead of admitting the error and promising to develop a system that would not discriminate students in an educational system because of any origin or identity, he began to talk about the fact that this judgment I quote was deeply unfair. According to the Prime Minister of Hungary, so once again, it is deeply unfair for discriminated, excluded children, who are usually oppressed by the education system, and who could only participate in much lower education, to receive compensation. In fact, Viktor Orbán was not satisfied with this; he tried to justify the segregation exercise, that is to say, that primary school children are locked away from their peers on the basis of nationality. This kind of racist speech, of course, is not uncommon for Viktor Orbán. This has also attracted the attention of the task force against racism, which has already been mentioned, who have described the case in this way, and I am now quoting this task force for a longer time. Quote follows:. The rhetoric that stigmatized the Roma, which best portrays them as a burden to the country, continues to spread to Hungary. The public figures, including political leaders, have repeatedly brought up anti-Roma rhetoric. As an example, the Prime Minister criticized the court decision granting compensation to Roma children separated at the special school in Gyöngyöspata and declared it "money for nothing." End of subpoena. [[10.00]] And what does hate speech and segregation lead to? Well, to ensure that the Roma remain the most vulnerable and marginal group in Hungary. It is estimated that they account for about 8 percent of the population. Many Roma are viciously surrounded by bad education, leading to limited labour market opportunities and frequent de facto separation of residences, segregation, and this also has a negative impact on their access to health and other social services. There are also interrelated problems of poverty, discrimination and stigma. In non-Roma households, the percentage of households at risk of poverty was 15 per cent, while for Roma it was 75 per cent. Several reports indicate that problems experienced by Roma are rarely and limited in the work of local authorities. Although the law requires local authorities to draw up equal opportunities plans for education and employment, they often lack the expertise to plan and determine the real needs of their immediate environment. According to the relevant professional surveys, the proportion of early school leavers in Roma households aged 18-24 is still 68 percent, while the same data show that Roma children's participation in compulsory education is almost as high as in the general population. Despite the early warning system to prevent early school leaving, the problem therefore continues. It has been reported that the reduction of the maximum age for compulsory education from 18 to 16 has made this situation even worse. Therefore, dear colleagues, honourable House, the relevant report and the proposal for a decision are completely unacceptable. The period 2019-20 has severely damaged the system of non-discrimination against nationalities in Hungary, at institutional level and at the level of public speech. I therefore ask you, I ask this House, to distance yourselves from racist and exclusional statements, even if they come from the ruling Prime Minister elected by the Fidesz majority. Thank you.
u2023-05-24-10	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Dávid Dócs, the lead speaker of the group of our country. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-05-24-11	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I think it's never worse. What my fellow Members have said here about minorities, what I can say is that if Hungarians living in a torn area were to be similarly supported and given similar benefits, perhaps we could live in a much nicer world. In its report on nationalities, the government long lists the subsidies, whether cultural support, the provision of ethnic media or even infinite money taps that affect the Roma most, with which the Hungarian state all facilitates the self-existence of citizens living far from the mother countries or the strengthening of the identity of the largest number of minorities in Hungary, rather than increasing their Hungarian consciousness. However, I think it is important to clarify the discussion of this proposal from another point of view, since all the speeches that have been made so far have approached the subject from a different perspective than I will. The Hungarian Movement, as a national opposition party, is automatically reminded of the people of our countries who have been joined in Trianon, when the word "nationality" is heard. How should we exercise further gestures towards the minorities of neighbouring countries living in our country when Beneš decrees are still in place in Slovakia, about which our northern neighbours have already been condemned by the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg? This decision was a milestone in the history of the Slovak legal order, as it was first stated at international level that, on the basis of Beneš decrees, the confiscation of assets will continue today in the Highlands, of course to the detriment of Hungarians. At the same time, the district of Mosonmagyaróvár is slowly being bought by Slovaks, who want to receive and use their own language, their own currency and additional rights here and demand this for themselves. How should we practice further gestures about the Romanian minority living in our country, when their mother country constantly violates and prohibits the cultural and symbolic traditions of the Transylvanian Hungarian community there? How much do they care about supporting minorities, maintaining their cultural values? The use of the Szekler flag is prohibited even on the facade of majority Hungarian governments or public institutions. A few years ago, the Romanian Prime Minister said, and I quote: "If the Szekler flag is placed on Szeklerland institutions, then those who put it out will also hang. This must have been a statement based on European values. In addition, Hungarian patriots are being cut into the toughest Romanian prisons with a conceptual terror charge, or even in death, Hungarian heroes who defend the country are being harassed, for example in the Uzvölgy. Or how can we continue to make gestures against the Ukrainian minority living in our country, when, although there is a war in the east of Ukraine and half the world views the Ukrainians and the Ukrainian leadership as heroes, they are taking advantage of this state on the western ends of the indigenous Hungarian minority there by selected methods and trying to eliminate it permanently? The case of the work Turul statue perfectly symbolized this process, but this case was just one of many. In the majority of the Munkácsi district, in the Hungarian villages, the Hungarian national flag was removed from the offices and public institutions, or high-profile teachers and school principals were fired because of their Hungarian identity. Perhaps the case in Fornos, where at midnight four policemen were able to remove the red-white-green flag. However, they did not stop here, as the Hungarian inscription was also removed from the Hungarian state-owned football academy in Dercen. I suppose you should look forward to all of this in place of the good deed. On the basis of a principle. The cases listed above show that the Ukrainian state wants to completely eliminate Hungarian language and cultural traditions from this region. This may have been the only case so far, but using the war, I would also like to physically disarm Transcarpathia. Hungarian men of military age, who have not yet fled, are sent together as animals to the meat grinder against the world's largest nuclear power and one of the best equipped armies; family members left at home are terrorized by the most selective methods, power outages, and financial inability. The Transcarpathian Hungarians, who are already halfway around, are therefore at risk of permanent disappearance, and should not wait for a holodomor to unfold in Transcarpathia. And the list is not complete, we could talk about countless acts of chauvinistism against the indigenous Hungarian minority, resulting in a continuous decline in numbers and, ultimately, the risk of extinction. On written questions, and here in Parliament, I have repeatedly asked the representatives of the government to speak more strongly for the Hungarians from abroad, especially now for the Hungarians from Transcarpathia, at all international forums. I would like to draw attention to one more issue: there is a minority in our country, to which governments of the last decades have uncountedly distributed aids that do not achieve results, of course mostly unemployed. We believe only in a work-based, performance-oriented society. These aids did not bring any results, since the billions of Roma integrations that were stolen by so-called gypsy leaders, if any, had been implemented, had been fired, in many cases the windows were sold, and within a short time the same putri was in place for this beautiful new house from where we started, we only spent billions on these gypsy integration programs. There are many examples of this, unfortunately, and there are some counter-examples, but it was not the programmes, but the determination and the need. With regard to the minority in question, crime, early school leaving, irresponsible childbearing, child motherhood could also be discussed, but returning to crime, in particular, remembering the anniversary of the Deák Square massacre that took place three years ago this Monday, which ended with the death of two young Hungarians, I think that we should definitely stop and talk about it, because the number of members of the majority society or, in many cases, the crimes committed at the expense of their ethnicity is also increasing significantly in the countryside, so we can say that those who could integrate are practically forced to suffer a form of life that completely ignores social standards, which is not certain to be useful in the long term. [[10.10]] And if it has already been mentioned here on behalf of my fellow Member of the Pearl Pata case, it is important to say that it is indeed deeply outrageous, but the part of it is outrageous that compensation has been made for those who, by the way, held the students of this school in terror. In many cases, students of this school were forced into other institutions, other settlements. Thus, I and the Hungarian Movement would have given compensation and support to those who had to be practically removed from this school, simply because there were children there who simply couldn't hold normal education because of their community, couldn't simply run the community within normal limits and prepare them to become a useful generation of the future. I have a lot of friends of gypsy origin. They too believe that it will not be the meaningless money distributed that will be able to catch up with their own ethnicity, for the saying is that it is not the gypsy who is born to it, but the one who lives so. So we can already understand this problem in the way of life, and I do not think that Gypsyism is a burden for Hungary at all, but the kind of life that unfortunately appears in rural settlements in general. I wish to my fellow Members, who would argue in contrast, and who do not believe that it is safe to visit, I would like to invite these fellow Members to the county of Nográd and move into such a settlement. I will see what your experience will be in a week or two, what you will think about this topic, and how you will approach it, what solutions will be offered for unnecessary Roma integration programmes and money. To sum up, according to the Hungarian Movement, ethnic policy should be based on mutual respect, which, although we give to all our minorities, is shown by the practice that many people do not return it to us, and in many cases bite into the hands of food. Whoever lives within the borders of Hungary should belong to any minority, primarily a Hungarian citizen, or else we can easily stand on the threshold of another Trianon, which we will prevent by all means, as this is not only our task, but also our duty. If that is the case, then the quote from Dezső Szabó, which we took up when our party was founded, will also guide us on issues related to nationalities, i.e. that all Hungarians are responsible for all Hungarians. Thank you very much for the floor. [[István Szabadi applauds.]]
u2023-05-24-12	Thank you. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I give the floor to Congressman Ferenc Varga, who wishes to make his contribution here on the pulpit. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-05-24-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the Nationalities Speakers! Allow me, in the next few minutes, to convey to you the position of the Democratic Coalition regarding the report before us. It is a statutory obligation to report every two years on the situation of nationalities native to Hungary. It was discussed in advance by two committees, the Justice Committee and the Committee of Nationalities. Reading the minutes of the meetings of the two committees, and then listening to the speakers before me, I can say that there is a prognosis of success in the comments of both government and ethnic speakers to the report and the situation of nationalities. Of course, I do not wish to question the views of the spokespersons at the committee meeting, as they are certainly well aware of the success of all 12 nationalities represented at the level of the spokespersons in recent years, so we wish them further good results for the future. At the same time, allow me to highlight some of the problems of the electoral system affecting nationalities, as the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights on several points concerning the rules of the Hungarian electoral system has recently become final. Under the current rules, the minority electoral system does not guarantee the free expression of the opinion of the people in the election of the legislative body. Those voting on the national minority list have to give up voting on the party list, so the right to secrecy of elections is also violated. In addition, because of the fact of voting on the list and the vote on the single list, the nationality list is closed, so there is no way to express the electoral will freely. According to the court, it is also a fundamental limitation that 11 out of the 13 minorities in Hungary do not even have a mathematical chance of choosing a Member of Parliament. Furthermore, the abuse of the 2019 nationality election clearly points to the problems of the electoral law. In fact, there has been a sudden increase in the number of people in the register in relation to several nationalities, because they are likely to be registered by people who do not belong to that nationality, but have been asked to register in the register of nationalities and then vote in the right place. In order to register, you only need basic data, so one person with data can register more than one person in the national minority register online. Then, of course, you tried to change that in 2020; well, you will see how successful you have been. At national level, I see great satisfaction at the level of advocates, but at the level of local national governments, walking around the country, I do not experience this. The municipal minority authorities are piling up complaints. They are too vulnerable to the management of the local government, because according to the law, the administration of the local government is carried out by the local government from the writing of the records to the provision of office space. You may think that a well-functioning, constantly-proclaimed, or even institutionally-sustaining minority self-government is, in fact, putting on the burden of the otherwise bled local self-governments with a lack of expertise. Then, in recent years, the obligation to review the annual cooperation agreement between the local government and the local minority self-government was also removed. An annual mandatory review of the agreement by both parties, even if it did not provide a solution but at least an opportunity to settle any disputes with each other. It is now sufficient for you to review these agreements after each election, i.e. every five years. Basically, the income of the minority self-governments consists of two main parts. One is operating aid, which is a fixed form of aid. The extent of this depends on the number of persons declared to belong to the nationalities in the previous census. The second is the task-based support, which provides them with a resource based on the results achieved within a score system, judging the activities of the minority self-government in the previous year. The problem is that decisions taken and their implementation are not always assessed in place. Several times, even though a national government is working, it does not get an appropriate score, because they are assigned an abrasion-like way. For a long time, they gave the opportunity to appeal to the scores received: in this case, the minority government could prove its activities in the previous year on the basis of the reports submitted and ask for a recalculation of its points. Today, this option is no longer available; the score it receives, whether it is right or wrong, it must be accepted. For example, many complain about the fact that they are not invited to attend meetings of the local government, even though the law requires them to be invited. But there are also people who are not allowed to sit in a closed session by the board and the mayor, even if the president of the minority self-government assumes that there is a nationality issue on it. Many also object to the fact that it is no longer possible to enter the representative bodies of local authorities with a reduced mandate, thus ensuring effective representation. I would like to draw your attention to something else: each of the nationalities native to our country has parliamentary representation at the level of spokespersons, except for the largest minority, the Roma. In the parliamentary elections behind us, the National Roma Municipality was unable to establish a nationality list. Why not? Because, in my opinion, big politics and the government have interfered with the domestic affairs of the largest minority of our country: they have not allowed a person close to it to enter Parliament. This is how it happened that the report before us could not be considered by a Roma advocate. Of course, we do know that the Roma advocates of the past, linked to Fidesz, danced as the government whistled. Otherwise, neither does the government commissioner responsible for Roma relations, who believes that everything is fine in the life of the Hungarian Gypsy. If there's work, then there's everything, and everything's on the right track. [[10.20]] But I don't think there's a lot of people in this country who think that Roma catching up is going well, and I don't think that most of the gypsies are living much better than 13 years ago. When asked, one thing comes to mind immediately about Roma catch-up: Flórian Farkas and the Bridge into the world of work, you know, the stolen billions of EU citizens and the fact that Fidesz is still hiding him. As regards the indicators of the Hungarian Gypsy, unlike the lying propaganda that the government has spoken, we are not doing very well. The relative income poverty rate is 36.4 percent. This figure is 11,9 per cent for the non-Roma population and 12,7 per cent for the overall population. Compared to the total population, this figure is nearly 300 percent higher in the case of Gypsy. The proportion of households living in households with very low labour intensity is 20.3% of the Roma population, 3.1 percent of the non-Roma population and 5 percent of the total population. Thus, the proportion of Roma living in households with very low labour intensity is more than 400 percent higher than in the overall population. If there is work, is there everything, fellow Members? ! Let's get back to the line. The proportion of those at risk of poverty or social exclusion among Roma is 66,6 percent, 17.1 percent for the non-Roma population and 18.2 percent for the whole population, i.e. the proportion of poverty or social exclusion among Roma is nearly 400 percent higher than for the whole population. As far as housing conditions are concerned, in 2021, when you have been in government for a long time, the proportion of people living in congested housing conditions was 91 percent. According to a study in 2022, 80 percent of children living under settlement conditions live in the same room as their parents. Moreover, Roma residence segregation is one of the highest in Hungary in the EU. Life expectancy at birth in the 27 EU Member States is 83.2 years for women and 77.5 years for men. Do you know how much this is for the Roma? For women, 72.8, and for men 67.3 years, that is, a Roma woman is 10.4 and a man lives 10.2 years less than a non-Roma. If there's work, is there anything? In recent times, Florians Farkas gave each other the doorknob both in the National Roma Municipality and in the Roma world around Fidesz. We see the result of this: embezzled EU billions, a zero-to-zero system of representation and catastrophic living conditions among the Roma. If there's work, is there anything? Don't get me wrong, I believe in work and learning too, because I know that what the government is doing to Hungarian gypsy is to keep them in poverty and exploit them. Is this your big catch-up? Is that what Fidesz and the government commissioner are so proud of? You have set the last 13 years or even these two years as a success in catching up with the Roma, but this is a huge lie. Many hundreds of thousands of people and many of them Roma live in terrible living conditions, while the report talks about success, even though the Union has spent money on catching up with the Roma in recent years, but these funds are gone because you stole these money. They have not taken advantage of the possibility of real catching up with the European Union's resources. They committed the historical sin of stripping Hungarian gypsy from the possibility of a better life. And why they did all this? Because you can do anything to keep the power. They are able to keep an entire ethnic group in poverty just to make it easier for them to get votes. Speaking of getting a vote, I'll tell you how you do it. The system of gypsy self-governments is constantly deprived of the basic rights, making it impossible for a willing Roma local government leader to work for the inhabitants of the settlement, because the point for you is that the Roma nationality should be exhausted in the fact that once a year a local government will have a family day. As the election approaches, they'll show up, they'll make promises, if it doesn't work out, then they'll threaten you. The point is to deliver the votes to you. But that is not enough, the funds for EU catching up have been systematically disposed of in recent years. Special DGs have been set up to channel EU funds, through which, in my opinion, they have organised fake mentoring programmes, dresser, stripper, photographer, signatory trainings, and sheltered jobs, where Roma are mostly not employed. By contract, they bought the Hungarian Roma leaders who are available for this, and they do so to this day without blinking their eyes, and they are able to say that if there is work, then there is everything. As far as work is concerned, increasing employment does not in itself mean that there is everything. The fact that a person has a job does not mean that a person earns well, values him at work, feels useful, and does not mean that the money he earns is sufficient to make a decent living. The sentence you like to use in order to cover up the failures of catching up with the Roma has failed here and now because you have created the working poverty in recent times. Work in Hungary has not been enough for hundreds of thousands of people in the last decade to emerge from poverty. This is your certificate of poverty towards the Hungarian gypsy. We in the shadow government are working to find a solution to the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. We are working to ensure that all nationalities can have a real representation at both parliamentary and municipal level, and not least a decent life. Thank you for listening.
u2023-05-24-14	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to the Croatian ethnic advocate József Szolga, who describes the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language and then translates it into Hungarian. Here you go.
u2023-05-24-15	[[???Köszönöm a szót. Tisztelt Elnök Úr! Poštovani Gospodine Predsjedniče! Tisztelt Ház! Postovani Dome! Tisztelt Államtitkár Úr! Postovani drzavni tajniče!???]] The report on the state of nationalities living in Hungary contains the milestones of the progress of the 13 indigenous communities compared to the previous period. It was the most important result of the period that a comprehensive amendment of the law on the rights of nationalities was made. However, this has not been the end of improving the legal environment; professional work is ongoing. In my speech, I would like to explain the government's work on strengthening the identity of nationality during the period under consideration, particularly with regard to the Croatian community. The report deals with the work of the joint minority committees. At the meetings, important issues for national minority communities will be addressed, discussed and then adopted as recommendations by the government. The practices of the Hungarian and Croatian governments are worth highlighting. It has already been presented as a good practice in Europe in Vienna, at OSCE events and during the Hungarian Presidency of the Council of Europe, so it can serve as an example to other neighbouring countries. The meeting held in Zagreb on 12 December 2019 ended with the signature of a minutes. The recommendations of the negotiations were confirmed in a government decision with a specific implementation designation. We cannot go without saying the personal contribution of the two co-chairs, as Ferenc Kalmár, Minister for the Development of Hungary's Neighbourhood Policy, has received the award Red hrvatskog Pletera, Croatian State, for his role in promoting Croatian heritage, culture and education, and for his special contribution to the protection and well-being of the Croatian minority in Hungary. His colleague Zvonko Milas, Croatian State Secretary, and the President of the Office of Croatians beyond the border, received the award of the Officer's Cross of the Hungarian Order of Merit at the Liszt Institute in Zagreb yesterday. The Protocol recommendation should highlight the conclusion of the Hungarian-Croatian cultural cooperation programme for the period 2019-2021, which is the basis for the cultural cooperation of the two states and the broadening of the cultural autonomy of nationalities living in the two countries. During the period covered by the report, a series of programmes, based on a common historical history, were implemented which were internationally recognised. It is worth noting that the National Assembly is the year 2019 II. He declared it the Memorial Year of Ferenc Rákóczi. ANNEX II Ferenc Rákóczi's mother was Jelena Zrinska, Ilona Zrínyi, a heroine respected by both peoples. On the occasion of the 400th anniversary of the birth of Nikola Zrinski Čakovečki, who was born as a child of Croatian-Hungarian parents, the National Assembly declared the year 2020 as a commemorative year of Miklós Zrínyi. The text of the decision emphasizes Zrínyi's outstanding role in the key events of the Hungarian-Croatian common historical past, therefore the Memorial Year has also become a tool for deepening Hungarian-Croatian bilateral relations. [[10.30]] In connection with the commemorative year and the outstanding personality, an initiative was launched on the inauguration of the Hungarian-Croatian friendship day by both States. With the support of the Croatian and Hungarian governments, October 15, 2020 can be extended as a cultural event of the year. In the Klovićevi Dvori Gallery in Zagreb, the opening of the Ars et Virtus exhibition presents the Hungarian-Croatian joint history and art of 800 years. Priceless works and monuments, a huge cultural heritage for both nations. This was also available in the National Museum in later years. I have to mention further the institutionalized relationship between Croatian and Hungarian public media. An agreement has been reached on the mutual acceptance of national minority programmes. The good practice of the two governments supporting nationalities is a exemplary result of the decades of Hungarians' desire in Croatia in 2019. The Hungarian Centre for Education and Culture and College in Croatia was built and delivered in the presence of the Hungarian and Croatian prime ministers. As a member of the delegation, I can quote the words of Croatian Prime Minister Andrej Plenković: the most important thing for us is that both communities enjoy themselves in Croatia and in Hungary. This strengthens their position, but cooperation promotes our country's relations through the communication of minority communities. That's the way it's gonna be in the future. After the project, the development of the Croatian school in Prince Szántó, the scheduled renovation and functionalization of the school centre in Szombathely, and the implementation of the new high school wing of the Miroslav Krleza Croatian School in Pécs with the support of the Hungarian government. The above also confirms that the development of national public education is the basis for the survival of communities. This road is the key to the future. Dear Secretary of State, We can say that 2019 was the last year of peace over the past period. Since the coming years, the construction of the unbroken and widely supported cultural autonomy has been hampered by a pandemic emergency that has never been seen by generations. At that time, we had no idea that even more serious external threats could hinder the progress and development of the country and nationalities. Our Croatian community felt deeply for the earthquake that shook Croatia on the 29th of December 2020 and after that on several waves. Those who give fast give twice: Hungary's Government has given concrete financial support to those in distress, the first of the European Union's Member States. Of course, Croatia's municipalities, organisations, citizens and myself immediately started collecting funds. In a short time, aid in kind and in cash was delivered to disaster areas. The assistance remains to this day. As a survivor of the earthquake in Croatia in Hungary, thanks to divine providence, I can personally express the thanks of the Croatian community. Dear Parliament, Despite scientifically proven research, initiatives from outside which wish to share Hungarian Croatians and turn the members of the community against each other are unfortunately starting to flare up at times. This was also relevant during the reporting period. We note that the National Assembly has twice rejected the recognition of the bunedovács belonging to the Croatian subethnic group as a separate nationality. During the period under discussion, the Assembly of the National Croatian Municipality stated in its declaration that the citizens declaring themselves as bunyevac in Hungary constitute an integral part of the Hungarian Croatian nationality as an ethnic sub-group. On behalf of nationality, we reject any expression of opinion that restricts the cultural identity of any Croatian community or undermines its historical heritage. The Bunyevac community is an integral part of the Croatian community in Hungary, the Croatian nation. In view of the opinion of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, I ask the National Assembly not to support the designation of the ethnic sub-group as an independent nationality in the future due to historical, cultural, linguistic and identity identities with Croatia. This was also handled in the final document of the European Council. Dear House, To sum up, we can say that the thoughts of the report were expressed with us, about us, about us, in the spirit of national cohesion. Like the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, I ask you to support the adoption of this report with your votes. Thank you very much for your attention. Hvala na posornosti! [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-24-16	Thank you. I give the floor to István Hollik, from the KDNP Group, as a pre-notified speaker. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-05-24-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, It is quite clear that the report proves this, and on the basis of the speeches made here, that the lives of nationalities living in our country and their cooperation with the government are harmonious, their cultural and educational autonomy is broad, so I can say in short that they live as they wish. This is important because if we look around the neighbouring countries, this cannot be said about Hungarian minorities living there. In this respect, cooperation between domestic nationalities and the government, I think, is exemplary and constructive. So if there is a proposal, there is a proposal from nationalities, then the government usually hears it and makes sure that their situation is even better. The situation is a cross-border situation because, in general, opposition representatives, who are talking about problems with the rule of law, and, by the way, they rightly say that action must also be taken in the interests of Hungarian nationalities, and that everything must be done in their interest, these left-wing representatives are silent when it comes to breaking the law of Hungarians across the border, the law of Hungarians across the border in Transylvania, the violation of the law of Hungarians beyond the border in Transcarpathia, when their existing rights, such as the right to education in Hungarian, are being lost, and they do not grant the important rights of autonomy, for example, in Transylvania, and they are constantly executing Hungarians. So when you are talking about the lack of the rule of law with colleagues in Brussels today, at last after ten years, you should be able to take on the issue of Hungarians across the border, because they do not seem to be so sensitive. I would also like to respond briefly to the speeches made by our fellow Member Vajda and Mr Varga. I think that on the issue of Roma catching up and helping our Roma citizens, our colleagues on the left, who are pushing Ferenc Gyurcsány's chariot, are better off keeping quiet, because in 2010, we saw that there was 13 percent unemployment. Not only the Roma, but the Roma must have had no job at the time, the vast majority of the Roma have been on welfare, forced into aid. So even if you say, Congressman Varga, that you believe in the work, your boss, Ferenc Gyurcsány, did not give the Roma one thing: respect and work; certainly not. He forced them to help. I agree that wages should be increased in Hungary. We've done that since 2010. In your time, when you handed over the government, the minimum wage was 73,500 forints, now three times that. But the aid that the Roma were entitled to at the time was even less. So I think that if you're talking about poverty and worker poverty, then it's better to consider that the Roma didn't work then, not because they didn't want to, but because they couldn't. If you are talking about poverty, I think that Roma citizens were in a much worse situation than they are today. Not to mention that Roma children, for example, were starving at that time, honourable Member, because, for example, there was no children's feeding programme, on which the government is now spending more than 60 billion forints. So if someone comes from a situation where they don't get enough food at home, they get it at school. In fact, even if there is a break, he still gets the food he needs at school. [[10.40]] To this end, you have done nothing, so I think that your criticism on this issue is not very credible. To talk about segregation and exclusion, honourable Member Vajda, to get to that, at least you are two-faced, I think. [[Zoltán Vajda intervenes.]] Yes, because it was during the Gyurcsány government that Roma were murdered in Tatárszentgyörgy and elsewhere. Not to mention that there has been a long-standing accusation that this whole situation has been triggered by the Secret Service, and this is where these murders took place. So I think it is better for our left-wing fellow Members to remain silent on the issue of Roma inclusion. I think that nationalities should be supported in everything, this cooperation with the Hungarian government is appropriate, and therefore, of course, the Christian Democratic People's Party will support the report. I would like to highlight one element from this report, since the report has already largely said what is important for us Christian democrats, and this is the belief in the mother tongue. It is also possible and supported by the government. The Catholic Church has several institutions where ethnic education and religious education are also taking place. The Evangelical Church has a German-language public education institution in Soltvadkerten, and the Apor Vilmos Catholic College is also a German ethnic educator, and the Pázmány Péter Catholic University Faculty of Humanities is undergoing slavistic training. So I think that we are doing everything we can to ensure that the right of nationalities is wide-ranging and that they can feel at home in Hungary. Thank you, therefore, to the Government of Hungary, and KDNP will support this report. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-05-24-18	Thank you. Dear Parliament, No one came forward for a two-minute speech, so it's the people who want the normal word. I give the floor to Sándor Berki of the Dialogue Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-05-24-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I read with great interest that part of the report, which is intended to report on the general situation of Roma ethnicity in Hungary, and I can tell you that I have had quite a surprise. The undisputed fact is that I was able to hold in my hand a comprehensive account of professionally well prepared, but the data and analyses described in the report are very far from the situation I have seen and experienced, which characterizes the life of a large part of the Roma community in Hungary. At the very beginning, I was caught by a very talkative data, which quoted the estimate of the KSH based on 2011 census data, 112 settlements of Roma majority and 531 settlements of at least 20 percent of Roma affiliations in the country. In 1985-1987 there were only 10 such settlements. For decades we have heard the importance of segregation, the eradication of Roma settlements. In contrast, despite all the measures, these numbers are increasing. Of course, the migration of the non-Roma population can also influence the process, but this only supports the fact that the Hungarian countryside has lost its strength. Of course, all of this is true of our country, because we can see how many young people choose to make a living, in the hope of prosperity, to use their knowledge and talent in another country. But back to the report, I am concerned that in the disadvantaged regions of the country there will be segregation and Roma settlements, where often even the most basic services are not available to the people living there. Another problem is that, as a result of the resulting population rates, segregation of education and training institutions is developing, which are even more slowing down the catching-up process. With regard to the over-representation of those living in extreme poverty, I would like to share with you a statistics from 2015. Percentage of those at risk of poverty or social exclusion among the Roma and non-Roma population: 83,7 among Roma and 26,8 for the non-Roma population. Unfortunately, many families in our country are forced to live under conditions where electricity is not provided, so the use of light and tools that are essential for everyday life is essential. Fortunately, there are civilians who actively help such families. We are proud that Dialogue has been able to participate actively in this work. I also read that in some institutions, where they also teach ethnic language in addition to the Hungarian language, teachers can obtain a wage supplement. I think this is a good direction, but I ask why it is only the teaching of nationality and not the fact of segregation, the social situation of the students and of any kind. I believe that it is even more important to value teachers, and even more so, those who are obliged to do so in far more difficult circumstances than the average every day. And speaking of education, it is also a talkable fact that 86 percent of the Roma aged 18-64 have not reached their graduation. Under Covid, participation in digital education has been limited, which is also reported in the report. The situation caused by the coronal virus was a major challenge for the most deprived families and young people. Many did not have the necessary infrastructure and electronics for digital education outside the classroom. In addition to general poverty, Roma children are most affected by school segregation. In addition to the fact that the existence of purely Roma classes and schools is discriminatory in itself, there are neither physical nor personal conditions. The chances of further education for children leaving such schools are extremely low, and this has a negative impact on growing generations in the labour market. The living conditions of Roma communities in the northern Hungarian region are the most dramatic, and employment figures are the worst. Public employment is almost the only job opportunity in the disadvantaged regions of the country, where Roma are also overrepresented. Since public employment is organised by local authorities, discrimination cases in this area, fearing that they will lose their stipend, are often not reported by those who suffer injury. We are all aware of the high proportion of people involved in public employment in recent years. In disadvantaged areas, the least reason for this is that workers were able to work on the labour market. For frequent housing, health and infrastructure deficiencies, it seems that there are still insufficient solutions. Although there are programs, such as the "Follow-up settlements" programme, the projects do not appear in the cities where numerous segregations can be found with one exception. Although we are talking about cities, they are not in one case of cities with county rights, but they are faced with the same problems and shortcomings as in smaller towns and villages. The lack of adequate roads or drinking water and other services, housing and health problems, as well as the eradication and management of energy poverty are important tasks. It is also worth mentioning the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. According to the verdict, it is of concern that those voting on the minority list must give up voting on the party list. According to the judgment, the right to electoral secrecy is also violated because of the fact of voting on a list and the vote on a single list. In addition, the nationality list is closed, so there is no way to express the will to vote. The court also stated that it is a fundamental limitation on the fact that 11 out of the 13 minorities in Hungary have no chance of choosing a Member of Parliament because of their small number. In my opinion, far more Roma can live in Hungary than self-religion, although we do not know the relevant data of the 2022 census, but it can be a guide in 2011, according to which 315 thousand people claimed to be Gypsies, but it is estimated that their number was in reality 600-700 thousand at the time. The question arises: what is the reason why gypsies do not claim to be nationalities? Fear of stigma, exclusion? I would also like to respond here to my fellow Member Hollik's speech. I always say that, as a fresh Member, I want to listen to what was in the past and how the government used Gypsy in Hungary, does not answer our questions, and does not give us an exemption from why the current government in power does not do more for minorities in Hungary. To keep listening to this, Ferenc Gyurcsány and the governments of the past are not relevant, it is not information-rich for me, and Roma and minorities living today are not interested in these answers. [[10.50]] The answer is what we are doing to improve the situation of minorities in Hungary at the moment. They're Hungarians across the border. I am the opposition representative who is a member of the Committee on National Inclusion, because I asked because I think that every minority is important and that every Hungarian living outside our borders is equally important to the Hungarian state. And I keep asking the question: if I really say that these programmes are very good for the Hungarian state, then why not implement the same programme within our borders. I can make that suggestion. But at the end, in summary, because I think that I am a proactive and cooperative Member, because the matter is important, and not the party stand I can say the same thing, that I am still ready to cooperate on all the things that want to answer the problems of Gypsy in Hungary. I wish to remain a partner in the development of the countryside and in the eradication of segregation, because, as I have repeatedly said, the Roma issue must override the political interests of the parties. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause in the dialogue.]]
u2023-05-24-20	Thank you. I give the floor to Elijah Boglárka, the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2023-05-24-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, I asked for the floor in this debate because I believe that the report before us is of greater importance than what is strictly reflected in the content of the report. It is of far greater importance because, for understandable reasons, we have talked more about humanitarian aid for those fleeing war-torn Ukraine. It is of greater importance, because we hear a lot about the consistent maintenance of the conditions established by Hungary earlier and supported by all international legal frameworks to guarantee the rights of Hungarians living abroad, in Transcarpathia, and that we do not ask for any more, only that which we have already created. I believe that this report proves that we have not only created the legal conditions for the enforcement of nationalities and national rights in Hungary, but we have also filled it with content. It was also filled with content with dedicated leaders, dedicated staff, ideas and a framework to ensure the implementation of ideas, as after 2010, there was no political will to do so either. I would like to thank the staff of the State Secretariat, and I would also like to thank all those working in the field either the Prime Minister's Office, the former Ministry of Human Resources, the former Ministry of Innovation and Technology, the staff of the Ministry of Interior, the former Ministry without a wallet for families, and the staff of the Agricultural Ministry, because this report covers the year 2019-20, and the work that they have done, I think, is exemplary, and I should definitely thank them for that. Allow me to open the legal background a little bit and open it, because the speakers before me have already talked a lot about the potential of nationalities in our country. But I think it's important to record exactly what that means or what that means. I would like to start with the Basic Law, because Hungary's Fundamental Law clearly states that fundamental rights and obligations requiring constitutional regulation concerning nationalities must be applied to them and are guaranteed by a national minority law which takes the form of a fundamental law. But I could also refer to education rights, higher education or, for example, the teaching of ethnic education, since Hungary's Fundamental Law also states that the right of national minorities to education in the mother tongue should prevail. Accordingly, the nationality law and the Public Education Act provide for the organisation, maintenance of national education and education, the provision of language or bilingual kindergarten education in accordance with the needs of ethnic communities, as well as language or bilingual language education or complementary nationality education. It clearly states, therefore, that nationalities have the right to do so and that the conditions are also guaranteed. But we could also talk about the Act of Performing Arts, because according to the preamble to the Act of Performing Arts, it was established, among other things, to increase the diversity and values of theatre, dance and music, to deliver performances and concerts to a wide range of audiences, to promote the international presence of Hungarian performing arts, and to promote the artistic support of Hungarian nationalities, as well as to promote their cultural rights. Let me also mention libraries and basic cultural care, as there it is clearly stated that cultural basic care should contribute to the strengthening of nationality identity, the enhancement of social development and the welfare effects of culture. And, of course, we can talk about a significant increase in subsidies to nationalities, a right of consultation for national authorities, a right of appeal, to which the State Secretary has also referred, and has mentioned in detail. We can also talk about the fact that not only the legal but also the material conditions for the functioning of the bodies of representatives of national governments have been ensured, and there is also the possibility of setting up, maintaining or even setting up a public register. I could increase the number of these, but allow me to mention one more thing, one more element, and this is the law on media services and mass communication, which also guarantees the operation and operation of ethnic media, and public service broadcasters regularly broadcast a native radio and television programme to all nationalities, and it is also possible to request and receive support for the funding of national minority newspapers. I thought it was important to highlight these rights because these rights are promoted by a deputy commissioner, and the Deputy Commissioner can only obtain his post if he has the support of, among other things, the Association of National Governments and the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities. So I believe that the rights of nationalities and the rights of nationality are guaranteed in our country. Of course, it is always possible to think further about the areas to which it might be worth extending, or which should be reviewed where appropriate, but this and I think it is important to highlight this should always be done with the cooperation, approval and support of nationalities. Some of the speakers before me have already mentioned it, but I think it is important to approach it from as many sides as possible in this debate and to tell the rights of Hungarians living in Transcarpathia from as many sides as possible, and to reduce their rights. For for Hungarians living in Transcarpathia, all the rights that we grant to nationalities here have not been granted for years. For years, since in 2021 a language law has been in place, according to which Hungarians living in Transcarpathia cannot use their mother tongue in the service sector and trade, otherwise they can expect a high penalty. From September, minority schools, including Hungarian schools, 99 Hungarian primary and secondary schools will be practically eliminated in Transcarpathia. They want to stop graduation, admissions and vocational training in Hungarian. And that's not all! Universities will not be able to choose the language of teaching themselves, and in the media they intend to increase the proportion of Ukrainian to 90 percent under the current rules. So the Hungarians in Transcarpathia would be completely deprived of community rights, education, language and political rights. On the other hand, we provide significant support for the nationalities living here, including the Ukrainian nationality. As can be seen in the report, the Hungarian government and the Hungarian state contributed about HUF 100 million to the Ukrainian nationality in order to maintain their own media. [[11.00]] The Hungarian State contributed HUF 25 million to the support of the institutions maintained by the Ukrainian National National Government. And to participate in the Stipendium Hungaricum program, dozens of young people can join each year and provide opportunities for dozens of young people. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] And I think it is important to stress that these figures relate to the years 2019 and 2020, so the 1300 children who are currently being given the opportunity in school education for free, free of charge, are not even mentioned in this report. Or, for example, in the National Foreign Language Library, the number of documents in Ukrainian is increasing. However, we can think of the support of ethnic life in the Ukrainian language, as the Hungarian state contributed about HUF 10 million in two years. For Ukrainian nationalities, a 30-minute programme was programmed weekly in the public media during the reporting period, but of course this is still taking place. Dear House, During the period covered by the report, the report shows that 1920 Ukrainian persons were included in the national minority electoral register. We know that more than two million people have crossed the border since the war broke out. We also know that there are tens of thousands of people who have found refuge in our country. Of course, I do not claim that all of them belong to Ukrainian nationality, there are many who have found a new home here from Transcarpathian Hungarians. However, there are many who are still Ukrainian nationalities, and we have welcomed them with love, with Hungarian hospitality, and here they are not only being raised, but also a home, of course, we take into account that they have fled from a war-stricken area. Unfortunately, we also need to see that while more and more people are coming to us, the number of Hungarians living in Transcarpathia and their number of people are fading. So if we take into account that these rights are granted not only to Ukrainians in the electoral register, but also to all Ukrainians who have been coming to us since then and who will find refuge in our country in the future, I think that our request can be a legitimate expectation. I ask this House to have a consensus between us on ensuring and guaranteeing the rights of nationalities in our country, as well as the rights of Hungarian nationalities abroad, that we draw attention to this in every forum and be united in this. I would also like to ask my fellow opposition Members who have forgotten this in their speeches for some reason or who have not said so in their speeches. And we continue to ensure our Ukrainian neighbours that the rights that we have granted earlier and the subsidies that we guarantee to nationalities, including Ukrainian nationalities, can continue to be maintained, we will continue to welcome Ukrainian children who will camp at Lake Venice or even at Lake Balaton in the summer. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-24-22	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I warmly welcome my fellow Members, and I welcome the ethnic advocates with a distinguished respect. The next speaker was Mr Brenner Koloman, from the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2023-05-24-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Hello. Grüss Gott! And Dobar dan! My public life, if I may say so, began its first press conference with this three-language greeting, as this is how we grew up in the Sopron region, giving respect to all three nationalities. I was a founding member of the National Local Government of the Germans of Hungary and a representative until 2017, so I looked at the report before us with this eye; the report before us, which is a very professionally correct work and covers the whole area of ethnic activities. However, if I have to respond to my fellow Members who spoke before me, we appreciate this a little bit from a political and overall social point of view, first of all, I would like to point out that the community of Jobbik-Conservatives has, from the outset, dealt with the issue of Hungarian national minorities across borders and national minorities as a priority issue of national strategy. If I can only point out that if you look at our 2018 election programme, we had one, unlike other parties, both the Hungarian national communities across the border, and the nationalities of Hungary, and this is rare in the domestic political field, I think they played a prominent role. It is not only the issue of the Hungarian Roma, but also the issue of all nationalities in our electoral programme that has been involved in the past, and plays a prominent role in our political activities to this day. I have to say that, even when the Hungarian Parliament adopted the law on the rights of national and ethnic minorities in 1993, many of us have already drawn attention to the fact that it is probably not fortunate to regulate the case of classic national minorities and the issue of Hungarian Roma in the same framework, because the issue of the Hungarian Roma society requires a total social effort and a particular and outstanding responsibility from the leaders of the Roma community, and, unfortunately, also from a very thin Roma elite in Hungary, which we do not think our country can really handle in the framework of ethnicity policy. Unfortunately, the time has proved that we were right, because it is possible to see that while the 12 classic national minorities, nationalities, for example, the system of national minority self-governments, despite all the bumps, may be said in the last decades, so since 94 when they were first elected, they have been able to operate normally, this is not true of the Hungarian Roma, which has fought with this system of national minority self-government from the beginning, and unfortunately, yes, the great policy has always settled on this, and this has not been good for anyone in our opinion, nor for Hungarian gypsies, nor for the entire Hungarian society. Therefore, I do not want to deal with this part of the report because I do not think that this debate should be conducted within the framework of a national policy framework, up to what is currently taking place at the National Roma Municipality, and the corruption issues that have already been mentioned, Flórian Farkas, should not be mentioned, because we believe that more than thirty years after the change of regime, this is an incredible certificate of poverty for the political elite of the entire governor. This is something I think it is worth to record in this form in the walls of the Hungarian Parliament. Let us look at some things that I think may be very interesting if we look at the details listed in the report a little bit more critically in terms of further development. The first such issue for Jobbik-Conservatives is the issue of emigration, which is a common social problem, but it also specifically affects nationalities in Hungary. Let me refer here, for example, to Baranya, where there are many villages of German nationality, especially smaller settlements, because obviously, especially if young people can speak German even from the family or ethnic education, it is quite normal in today's world that they leave the German language area as young people. Why is that? Well, because they earn three times as much because they write and say that the wages of Hungarian citizens in the European Union are one of the lowest. Here, too, let me refer to the initiative of the Jobbik-Conservatives on the EU's wage and wage-receiving initiative. Until there is a comprehensive breakthrough in this, unfortunately, this issue of emigration also applies to settlements inhabited by nationalities. [[11.10]] Once again, this is also a social issue, but obviously it concerns the German national minority, for example, but I think it also concerns the other nationalities with language skills who are now, let's face it... unfortunately, the Hungarians also come from the Szeged region to work in Romania, because, in the face of shame, the wages are already higher than ours. I note quietly that since the change of regime, Fidesz, led by Viktor Orbán, has been ruling for 17 years, so you can point the finger at something else, but it's not worth it. Another issue, which has always been of paramount importance to me as a researcher and linguist, is the language use of nationalities in Hungary. This issue has not, in my opinion, been given the same emphasis in this report as this question would deserve, since one of the first aspects of nationality identity is the knowledge of the mother tongue. Now, due to historical processes, a large proportion of nationalities in Hungary are in the middle of a loss of language process, and towards the end it depends on which nationality we are talking about. And all the institutional systems that are really necessary, for example, educational institutions maintained by national authorities, are starting to develop quite well within the framework of some nationalities. The big question is that the process is moving towards a growing number of bilingual or possibly monolingual institutions teaching only in the language of nationality at a high educational level here and we are creating it so that nationalities in Hungary can really preserve their language and culture. Now, in today's world, I came here from the front of Mr. Minister of Interior Pintér's office, because instead of me, the Vice President of the Teachers' Union was delegated by Jobbik-Conservatives to this consultation on the Vengeance Act, when the current Fidesz one-party overpower treats the issue of overall education in the way he treats it, then you can see who it is to say who is applying for ethnic education. It's a training facility, and I respectfully report it, but he's not much of a student anymore. I'd just like to refer to the most recent figures, say, my own university, the ELTE, how many people have applied to en blog teachers, and then I won't even talk about ethnic teachers. So, with all due respect, I would like to ask everyone that what is positive about domestic nationality policy is accepted as positive. I have stood up and stood up in every forum, in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and in all forums for the sake of Transcarpathian Hungarians, because I have known my friend László Brenzovics since 1996 and I think that I am also very well aware of the relations there. But let us not forget that we have managed to resolve the issue of domestic nationalities relatively well in a European comparison, and this must always be stated, since in the international comparison, the institutional system of national minority policy can be regarded as well established. And let us not forget what the problems are, for example, the loss of the language of the Hungarian classic nationalities, to which this institutional system has not yet been able to give a striking answer, and I think that we should consider the processes together, because this is a very important issue. The last one is my comment on the election verdict, isn't it, on the latest verdict? Yes, when we discussed the possibility of a preferential mandate even in the National German Municipality, the question has always divided nationalities, that on the one hand the registration system has always been a controversial issue; especially in the Hungarian Germans, in whom the current Hungarian government has lived vividly, especially in older generations, the tragic experience of the expulsion of Hungarian Germanism, which was carried out on the basis of census data. Technically, I have to say that these were serious debates on how to deal with the issue of registration. Finally, we have come to the conclusion that we are willing to do so in return for additional rights, some levels of additional rights. But the fact that we are losing practically one of our two votes is that if we sign up to the national minority register and I want to vote for it in the parliamentary elections, but that in the current one Chamberlain Parliament, as it turned out from the judgment, raises serious legal and national policy problems. Here, too, I think it would be worth considering this together with a further step and a step towards consensus. In summary, on behalf of the Jobbik-Conservatives, we can judge this report as good from a professional point of view, but at the same time we also draw the attention of honourable voters to the importance of the critical points set out. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2023-05-24-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Mr Ritter Imre, Member of the Nationality. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-05-24-25	Sehr geehrte Vorsitzende! Sehr geehrter Statssekretär! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the two-year report and the two-year work behind the report, for the compilation of the report is one thing; what is in the report and what is behind it is much more. Secondly, I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for the comprehensive oral information, including my colleague Alexov Lyubomir; without repeating any of these, I would like to say that I fully agree with what they have said. At the same time, let me recall a few things in the general debate on the draft law on the central budget for 2023 in June 2022, and then in March this year when the budget law was amended. My comment was three times 20 minutes; the first h20 minutes ago in June 2022, it was about the fact that I went through the very positive changes that had taken place in the eight years between 2014-22 following the provision of the parliamentary representation of indigenous nationalities in Hungary. I concluded by saying that on behalf of the thirteen indigenous nationalities living in Hungary, I must thank the Hungarian government, first and foremost, because every decision was theirs, but the entire Hungarian Parliament, each former and present Member of Parliament, has been granted nationality support over the last eight years, with which less than HUF 4 billion in 2014 rose to nearly HUF 24 billion, i.e. six times the year 2022. In particular, I thanked the fact that the affairs and proposals of indigenous nationalities were taken out of the daily political battles as a kind of unwritten house rule, and in the last eight years, every submission and bill submitted by the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities was essentially adopted unanimously by the Hungarian Parliament. Thank you for that, and we will continue to ask for it. I have told you every time that we, indigenous nationalities in Hungary, have not had such opportunities in the last hundred years. However, I also stressed that during the past seven or eight decades, the multitude of actions, omissions, crimes, and negative consequences of the actions affecting the Hungarian nationalities cannot be compensated for and corrected by the good results of seven or eight years, which will take several decades. The last eight years have been enough to hold on, to receive faith again, and to take a new impetus on that path, to launch long-term programmes that we hope will ensure the survival of indigenous nationalities and the future survival of our nationality. Unfortunately, the Covid crisis in 2020-21, and then the tragic war situation in, 22, the energy crisis, increasing inflation and all the other consequences have broken this positive progress and strengthened several negative processes that I have already predicted in the negotiations on the budget proposal of 23. [[11.20]] We knew that we would have significant extra costs in a number of areas, however, understanding the problems and tasks to be solved before our country, our role in this, we accepted that, as in 2021, there would be no increase in minority support in the fiscal law and even major withdrawals. I would like to stress that all 13 nationalities have accepted this in a uniform and consensual way. Since then, eight months have passed, the events of which have unfortunately confirmed our earlier predictions. In the 2023 budget year, there are three areas with significant additional costs requiring substantial central action. These are the following. The first is to ensure that the additional cost of energy is covered. For the fourth quarter of 2022, the national authorities and the public education institutions they maintain received some HUF 405 million in additional energy cost compensation, which we thank for. By the first half of 2023 the government decree on the advance was published, also from HUF 405 million. It is certain that this year will require compensation of at least HUF 1 billion. The second area of serious concern is the financing of the costs of mass catering. Last week we completed a specific survey per institution for more than 4,500 children of the 27 public education institutions maintained by the nine national authorities for actual revenue and expenditure in 2021 and 2022. On this basis, it is an objective fact that the funding of HUF 126 million was missing in 2021, which increased to nearly twofold in 2022 to HUF 247 million. In view of the inflation in the second half of 2022, including food inflation, I dare say with great certainty that the shortage of the 27 public education institutions maintained by the nine national governments will be at least HUF 500 million in 2023. The survey is currently under way, by the end of next week we will have data on 75 public education institutions maintained by 55 HNÖ, tens of thousands of children in the order of magnitude, no doubt that this will be about twice as much of the population shortage held by nationals, which is about HUF 1 billion. Here we must stress the need not only for a significant increase in the baseline norm, but also for an institution-by- institution examination of the additional support that we need to provide, as there are very significant positive-negative differences from the average, depending on the number of institutions, cooking or heating kitchens, local government or the institution's mass catering and the rest. In summing up these first two points, I said a year ago that overall compensation in the field of energy and public catering would be about HUF 3.5 billion in 2023. The third large area is the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, and the provision of resources to increase the teacher's sectoral bonus. This was done by several months shifts, in the pedagogical working groups, as, going back to May 2023 with normative support, until 1 January 2023, the institutions received the source of the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage and the increase in the teacher's sectoral allowance on a normative basis. However, what we could not have thought a year ago was that this normative supplement did not apply to non-peda-workers, technical staff, auxiliary staff. We have carried out a detailed survey for the years 2020-21-22-23. By 2020, there were 52,4 million compared to 19 additional costs. In the year 21, HUF 77.5 million, HUF 224.5 million in the year 22 and HUF 358 million in the year 23. If we double it at local institutions, it will be at least 700 million forints. So this means that this factor is only about HUF 1 billion in 23. Here I would like to draw attention to the trend and the process, because while this HUF 52.4 million in 20 per institution was only HUF 160 000 per month, this year it was HUF 1.2 million per month out of HUF 358 million. So there is a change that, I think, is speeding up with all the problems of the last two years, within the current framework, cannot be cultivated or managed. I would like to draw attention to the fact that institutions maintained by national authorities are in a very specific, specific financing situation, as Klebelsberg institutions have one task-based funding. The budget is planned for the necessary amounts, and transfers can be made during the year. In kindergartens maintained by local authorities, typically local authorities have other revenues even in the smallest settlements, from which they can complement the budget of the kindergarten that is important to them. The church-owned public education institutions receive the same norm as the minority self-governments, but according to the Vatican agreement, they complement their budget at the end of the year, which is precisely the additional costs of this type. However, there is no minority self-governments, and there is no own income for minority self-governments. This should be highlighted and highlighted because the most important achievements of the last eight years, the autonomy of national education and the institutional transfers are fundamentally threatened by this current situation. We still need to find a reassuring solution to this during the spring session, because if we have to give back our ethnic public education institutions, who are really on the verge of bankruptcy in several settlements, it will bring back everything we have achieved in the last eight years and endanger our nationality. I would add, however, that even if the right to maintain is given back, the State must also finance it, since it will still be in the hands of the State. So here, this would mean no savings or anything else, but it would mean that the bankruptcy or return of ethnic public education institutions has a fundamental influence on our national future. Finally, allow me to respond in a few sentences; in relation to the report that has been made, of course, I would not want to go into any political debate in relation to the minority and minority policy part of Roma matters under any circumstances; unfortunately, it has created a very difficult situation for the minority committee that there is neither a Roma advocate nor a Roma MEP in this parliamentary term. Unfortunately, we cannot do this, together with the Deputy Ombudsman, look for ways, opportunities to bridge this situation. [[11.30]] However, I would like to stress that, despite everything and despite all the difficulties, all the results of nationality, whether they are now mass caterers or compensation for costs, as well as the national minority pedagogue substitute, or the scholarship of national minority educators, are automatically included in all areas to which the minority committee is influenced, and where we have been able to achieve results, the Roma are also automatically involved in the Roma institutions maintained by Roma municipalities, Roma ethnic educators and minority educators. I am asking for everyone's help in what has been said and in these matters in the next month and a half of Parliament's work. Thank you very much. Danke sehr! [[Applause in the ranks of governing parties and ethnic advocates.]]
u2023-05-24-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any sign, so we'll continue with the next round. Member Attila Stojka asked for the floor from the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2023-05-24-27	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The nationality report was drawn up in cooperation with 13 nationalities. To say that propaganda is false to the left, to say the least. But if Mr Brenner Koloman is a betterman, I can't handle it any other way than rejecting him. This shows how the opposition is related to the issue of nationality, including the issue of Roma. Although it must also be admitted that this is not new, it was not so long ago that the leader of the opposition made clear on his year-end review how he viewed Gypsies as a problem: he also said that they did not know what to do with it, and then admitted that they had turned their heads away from the gypsy. Believe me, we felt this between 2008 and 2010, when people turned on each other. Instigation and confrontation cause clear tragedies, which is why it is important to make clear what is the situation with regard to nationality matters. I believe that dealing with the issue of Roma is indeed a fundamental economic and social issue, but it is essential how we start dealing with Roma. As long as the pre-2010 government basically kept the Gypsy in handouts in Hungary due to its incompetence, the Christian-Conservative civilian side brought it to the world of work, to the stability of their existential lives, and the figures are even clear today: it has helped them to enter the world of work with training and employment. It is also a fact that the opposition likes to use where appropriate: it runs to Brussels and complains there. That is why I am bringing here the fact that the FRA, the European Union's core agency, published in a survey on Hungary and on Gypsy issues. According to the FRA report, most Gypsies work in Hungary. According to the FRA report, this fact is also shown by the figures that say that we are in second place even in the employment of Roma women, i.e. first in the area of Roma employment and second in the area of Roma women's employment. The fact that you are constantly trying to keep the facts in the shadows or, if you like, to hide them, is very typical of you. All we can say is that we regard Gypsy in Hungary as a nation-creating factor. It is also important that what you did before 2010 served nothing but to maintain vulnerability. Let us recall that after 2002, you reduced, even led out interest-supported loans, pushed people towards foreign exchange loans, and even the kind of family support system that would have been needed, you guys did nicely, and we were saying that the minimum wage at that time, the minimum wage in 2009, was 71,500 forints, and the guaranteed minimum wage was 87 thousand. Currently these amounts are: 200 thousand and 260 thousand forints. [[Zoltán Vajda: Inflation!]] What we see is that the left repeatedly does not try to learn from the past, he is increasingly trying to tweak and prevent the resources of Hungarians. They are now saying that they have confessed in Brussels, that they are lobbying to prevent the arrival of resources that could be used to catch up with disadvantaged people in Hungary, not to come from those sources, not to continue with the process that started in 2010 and the great commitment that could have led to poverty reduction, you are trying to prevent it. But the facts are also clear: over the last ten years, we have reduced the number of people living in poverty by one million; 50 percent more people work for the Roma than ever since the change of regime. We can also say, and yes, we can proudly say that the real change of regime began in 2010 in the life of the Roma, when the government provided work for Gypsies in Hungary instead of aid. And yes, if there is work, there is everything, my fellow Member, even if you are trying to keep it really in the shadows and make false claims. So is the fact that they're accusing the government of actually doing nothing against racism. Then I would like to remind you that it was the civil-Christian government that proclaimed zero tolerance in the fight against racism. It is this government that rejects and even punishes all racist manifestations. It was this government that reduced and eliminated uniformed crime in the legislative environment. It was this government that really tried to take the Roma issue seriously and treat it as a national matter. Nevertheless, it is clear that you continue to work to divide the nation. The division of the nation begins when social and economic situations are being ethnicized, and this is the greatest tragedy, because if a case is ethnicized, because it may be more convenient for you, it may result in confrontation and division of social groups. All such measures can cause tragedy, and history has proved these things in many cases. I would ask my fellow Members to try to treat the issue of nationalities in Hungary as a national matter instead of social division, and I would ask you to place Roma as a partner and in all respects above politics. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-24-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Ferenc Varga will speak again. Here you go.
u2023-05-24-29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am trying to seize the opportunity to respond here to the Members who spoke before me. Mr Zoltán Vajda, I fundamentally agree with what you said. Perhaps I would add that if I remember correctly, you were an example of the pearl Pataan case. [[Zolán Vajda nodds.]] Well, that's conscious of our government. Consciously, social groups are instigated against each other, and the pearl pataan case was such a case, when the gypsy was the hoofed devil, and the government tried to turn gypsy into a scapegoat, thereby obtaining votes for itself. That's what I was talking about up there on the pulpit just now. My fellow Member, Dávid Dócs, may have been the first member of Gypsy origin here in Parliament to openly stand up and say that what our country is doing must be put to an end. I think that this is no different now, so I would like to reject the speech of the tax collector of hatred in the name of the Hungarian gypsy in the strongest possible way. Congressman Attila Stojka, you have said a lot of things, and I am trying to respond to them. [[11.40]] You're saying that this government was the government that stopped the uniformed crime. Then let me ask you, why didn't you just speak up against what the Congressman of Mi Hazan said? Why are you silent? [[Attila Stojka: That's what I was referring to with ethnic things. The president's ringing the bell.]] Since you've been sitting here in Parliament, and why don't you stand up for the Hungarian gypsy openly against our country's branch party? Your policy is basically about Viktor Orbán in a speech in 2006 saying that a hoofed devil should be drawn on the horizon, and this should be accused of all kinds of accusations. And unfortunately, it has happened many times in the past that this hoofed devil was the Hungarian gypsy. And, by the way, your purpose consciously is to clear the line between the right and the extreme right. Then he talked about various training courses and programmes, and we know them very well from both DG Social and Child Protection and DG Social Chances. What I can tell you is that we know that these were, for the most part, dress-up, stripping and photography programs, and they have precisely contributed to your stealing EU funds. He also claims that the left is working to prevent the return of Roma money in Brussels. [[Attila Stojka: Yes.]] Are we that strong to do this, Congressman? [[Attila Stojka: They are disadvantaged, not Roma! The president's ringing the bell.]] They have been ruling for 13 years with unlimited power, they have had 13 years to do something about the eradication of poverty in the country or in a narrower cross-section, by catching up with the Hungarian gypsy. And for example, István Hollik's speech shows very well that they have no idea what to do with this whole story because it points back to the Gyurcsány government. After 13 years of unlimited power, we still have Gyurcsány, Soros, Brussels, hobbies, lizard people, while people are starving in the country! We're not lobbying so that EU money doesn't come, but we're lobbying so that the Wolf Florians, you know, the one you're sitting there as his successor, with the key to catching up in your hands in the ruling party faction, can't steal these money. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-05-24-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am asking my fellow Members, who would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The joint general debate is closed. I am now asking Mr Miklós Soltész, State Secretary, if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Miklós Soltesz nodds.]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2023-05-24-31	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to respond to the speakers' speeches, but it was about them, at least in their area. I would add that the report itself was a two-year report, not a debate on next year's budget, honourable Member. I would like to say that I would like to thank you for the work you have done so far, together, and also for the attitude that will not only contribute to the lives of nationalities in Hungary, to the lives of their own people, but also to improve the situation of Hungarians in your mother countries, be it Serbia, be it Slovakia, Croatia, Slovenia, Romania, even Ukraine, where appropriate, or be more normal. It is not up to you that this effort is not always successful. But thank you very much for both your comments and your work. I would like to thank Mr Imre Ritter for the comments and suggestions he has already made to prepare the report for the year 2021, 22, 23 and 24. I would like to thank the pro-government representatives, on the one hand, for the support that I have been hoping for, both Csaba Nagy and István Hollik, as well as Members of Mr Boglárka Illés and Attila Stojka. Thank you very much for including what I mentioned earlier, that even the situation of Hungarians living across the border depends on the situation of Hungarian ethnicities in Hungary, and this does affect our policy here, but not in the first instance. So it is important to point out that we do not help and support Hungarian ethnicities because of what is happening across borders, but because they are also part of this nation, the citizens of this country, and it is absolutely natural that all rights and opportunities should be granted and given. But at the same time, if all of this helps to preserve Hungarians across borders, to strengthen their rights, I add, especially to improve the lives of Hungarians in Transcarpathia who suffer serious grievances, then this effort is even more worthwhile and worth the effort. I would also like to thank the pro-government Members for their contributions in this regard. And I would like to thank Mr Attila Stojka Fideszes, in particular, for the warning of facts and figures, because in the debate there were such serious, so stupid half-truths that we had to respond to. Thank you for that. Just as you have recalled, what you like to forget about, where appropriate, opposition representatives in other political communities, that instead of aid, work is a worthy recognition and appreciation of Gypsyism, the Roma community, so that we can raise them through education, culture and much more, even if we are not at the end of work, even if there is a lot of trouble and much difficulty. But thank you very much for the numbers. In this connection, let me turn to opposition speakers. Someone hasn't noticed what kind of debate we're in. Zoltán Vajda, most of all, set a bad example. He didn't realize that we were talking about 13 ethnicities and that he was talking about everything. By the way, I also honour the nationalities by buying a tie, by wearing a suit for such a meeting, because they honor us in every other way. You, as you said about them, or most of all, the way you didn't talk about them, I'm afraid I have to say that the voice of shame that we're used to from you, by the way. He was talking about racism. He was talking about the lack of Equal Treatment Authority. I would just like to point out that, in several EU countries, the ombudsman's offices are or are linked to the equal treatment authority. But that is not what determines the situation of a country, honourable Member. Under your left-wing governance, Roma killings were unfortunately, shamefully, and indeed in all respects reprehensible. Then where were you? Then why were you silent? [[Zoltán Vajda intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] Why did the other opposition representatives listen? You are in the shadow of a government or a fake government, or, I don't know, a shadow government, whose leaders then left actively the form of racism, Gypsy hatred that marked Hungary between 2002 and 2010. So I would also like to ask you and the other opposition representatives, who have now, for example, attacked either the Member of Roma origin or others, to hold back a little and look in the mirror at what happened during your governance. And I would also like to add here that it would be good to have you leaning on numbers, not just blowing things up in the air. [[Zoltán Vajda: I may be better at numbers.]] I congratulate Congressman Ferenc Varga on this wonderful career, Jobbik, from the marching Jobbik to DK. That's all I have to say to you. Congratulations, it's a beautiful career. [[Ferenc Varga: I have a tie! The president's ringing the bell.]] I would like to tell you that in 2014, nationalities entered the Parliament. [[11.50]] It wasn't the left who came up with this solution at all, whether it was a spokesperson, or even if one candidate received so many votes, he could be a representative of that nationality in Parliament. You didn't even think about it, you didn't even think about it. [[On the mark of Ferenc Varga:]] No, thank you so much for saying no, that's right, you didn't think of it. In 2014... [[Zoltán Vajda laughs.]] This is very ridiculous, very funny, Mr President, it is just that you are trying to turn everything around, but the big situation and the reality is that you have ignored nationalities before 2010. [[Zoltán Vajda constantly intervenes.]] You didn't support them. The support was what I just said, a big zero, and by the way, nationalities...
u2023-05-24-32	Mr Vajda, I am sorry, but let the Secretary of State say what he wants to say, because he knows that if I warn you now, he will not be able to speak today in the next period, and I think he has something to say. [[Zoltán Vajda intervenes.]] Well, you're putting that at risk, so thank you very much.
u2023-05-24-33	Thank you very much. Mr President, I must say to Mr Ferenc Varga that, on the subject of why there is no Roma advocate here in Parliament, I must say that you are lying and I will tell you why you are lying. He is lying because János Agócs was also an ORÖ or current president, he was part of the power game of the left. Together with Márki-Zay Agócs, your Prime Minister's candidate, he said that we should encourage a common fight. Agócs, because he couldn't secure his own candidacy to get in, prevented someone else from getting in. At the meeting that we had a vote on, he took nine breaks just so that they couldn't finish the meeting. That is why there is no Roma candidate or Roma advocate for your community. So don't claim that it's the Hungarian government's fault, don't claim that Fidesz-KDNP is responsible for this. Unfortunately, it has to be said that your left-wing play and play resulted in last year's parliamentary elections and before nationalities do not have their 13th representative here. Remember that, and don't say anything you just said a few hours ago. Ladies and gentlemen, Sándor Berki of the Dialogue, I turn to you. [[To Sándor Berki in the notary seat:]] With regard to the electoral law, I would also like to say to you that your party and political alliance has never thought to have a parliamentary representation. I'll repeat what I just said: you didn't think of it. So don't ask us for the law, which the Constitutional Court has also supported, why it is bad now, why it is not bad. We're gonna fix that if it's bad, we're gonna figure it out, no question, that's what's happened. If there was any legislation that affected, say, nationalities or any other area, and, where appropriate, any court overrides it in some way, be it the Constitutional Court, but be it an EU court, then we will correct it. But don't accuse us that we've created it so that we want to screw with these minorities, so at least don't accuse us of this, so let's make it fair. I have always respected Mr Brenner Koloman's great expertise, and I congratulate him on his election programme for 2018, which he always says nicely here, and for their election success. All I want to say to him is that if he were here, we would work together to achieve the things that are important to nationalities, and together we would do the things that do serve the whole country, all 13 nationalities. To Dávid Dócs, a representative of our country, there was indeed something I disagreed with, and I have repeatedly opposed, which is unacceptable, and I am telling you this, Congressman. But on the other hand, I have to agree with what he has done, that we do have to raise our voice for Hungarians across the border. On the other hand, I do not agree with what a Member thinks of mutual respect: that if we are not respected by Hungarians, let us say in Ukraine, then we should strike the Ukrainians in Hungary with any laws or decisions? We will not do this at anyone's request, no matter what happens to the Hungarians living next door. But that's not what's happening, thank God, it's not the example in Ukraine, it's not the example in Transcarpathia. In relation to the countries listed above, from Serbia to Slovakia, there has been rather an improvement in cooperation and improvement in the situation of Hungarians there over the past ten years. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I repeat some of the figures, just to try to look at this debate from the point of view that this was indeed a two-year report, but the two-year report may include the results of 10-12 years of work. In this, let us say, without education support, the support of Hungarian nationalities increased 6.5 times over ten years, from 23.2 billion to 3.6 billion. If it's nothing, then I can't deal with you, I can't argue with you. In 2010, 12 public education institutions were maintained by the national authorities, which now exceeded 100, but this was 95 during the IP. I can't argue with you if you don't think it's a result. I will only tell DK to the future DK representative that it was you who refused to vote for the law to give them free access to the institution in which nationalities are teaching and educating for this public education. And here I would also like to point out once again what is important again, because you have been trying to pull down the measures that have been taken on Gypsy, on the Roma community, as if they were worthless. Then listen to the numbers. Social exclusion and poverty in 2010 and on the basis of a European survey, I say the figures were 28.6 percent, 19.3 percent in 2021, and, unfortunately, most of this has been the Roma nationality or the Roma population, but there has been such a decline over the last ten years. If you do not understand this number, I will not be able to do anything with you, but I will also say another one about the Roma population: in 2010, when we took over from you, the left-wing government, the government led by Ferenc Gyurcsány and Bajnai, the unemployment among the Roma was 39.5 percent, almost 40 percent. This number is now down to 17 percent by 2021. What is this, if not the result of catching up, education, job creation? ! If you cannot take note of this, I cannot do anything about it, then I can say again the number that Congressman Attila Stojka said that the employment of the Roma in the European Union is the highest in the majority society; and that is true if we look at France, it is true if we look at Romania, Bulgaria, Slovakia or any other nation. Thank you very much for all the work that has made the two-year report possible, but not only for the preparation of the two-year report, but rather for the work that is behind it, the cooperation that is behind it. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-24-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I am now going to ask Mr Gábor Pupils, Member of the Judicial Committee, who has tabled a proposal for a decision, if you would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-05-24-35	[[Zoltán Vajda indicates Dr. Presses to Gábor that he does not wear a tie either.]] I do not wish to respond to what has been said in this debate, as Mr Secretary of State has summarised it. I continue to ask Members to accept the report supported by the Justice Committee. Thank you very much. [[12.00]]
u2023-05-24-36	Thank you very much. Dear House, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the bill amending certain laws necessary to facilitate the economic exploitation of innovation and scientific results until closure. The government referral is T/4031. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Hankó, State Secretary of the Ministry of Culture and Innovation, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2023-05-24-37	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, As you know, the Hungarian higher education, research and innovation life has been renewed in recent years, and this has been accompanied by a significant increase in resources, since we have doubled the funding of our universities in recent years; R &amp; D &amp; I spending has already reached 1.65 percent of our GDP in 2021. The first results are already visible thanks to the initiated process, in particular the change of the university model to increase autonomy and competitiveness. While one of the world's largest university rankings, the Times Higher Education has only seven university rankings two years ago, this year, as last year, 11 Hungarian universities are the top 5 percent, i.e. the best of the 28 thousand universities in the world in 1400. Thus, we can proudly say that two thirds of our university students go to a university that is an elite. What's more, Semmelweis University is one of the world's top 250 universities, ranked 236th. Never before has a Hungarian university been so distinguished on the list. What is more, if you look at the universities of the European Union, there is the outstanding 64th place. It is also a pleasure that 27 percent more people have applied to the renewed higher education this year, and there is a particular optimism about the increase in the share of the fields of mathematics, science, engineering and informatics. In contrast to false news, the fact is that while 4409 applied to be teachers and teachers last year, 5843 were the first to apply this year. That is, based on quick math, we can calculate that the average increase in teacher and teacher reports is 5,5 percentage points higher than the average increase of 27 percent. The level of undivided teacher training has been maintained, with a significant increase of 41 percent in the number of short-cycle master teachers, 2543 participants. It is also a matter of hope that half of the master teachers who have applied have identified the MTMI area in the first place. Further: the number of quality Q1 publications in higher education institutions increased by 78 percent between 2018 and 2022. Since 2014, there has been a significant increase in the proportion of SMEs introducing product innovation, but we would like to make further progress here, as in the case of knowledge-intensive export of services, which is on an upward path. In 2021 it was 55.3%. The number of patent applications in the higher education sector also increased to nearly 80 by 2021. In the Eötvös Loránd Research Network, 17 were the number of patents awarded in recent years. However, we know that we need to strengthen it here too. However, the number of R &amp; D workers, i.e. those working in the R &amp; D area, has more than doubled by 2021, which is the second highest rate increase in the European Union. Of course, achieving these results is thanks to the success of Hungarian teachers and researchers. We are responsible for ensuring a regulatory and financing environment that helps success, which supports talent. This is why it is unacceptable for Brussels to punish Hungarian university students and young researchers by applying double standards, knowingly causing a competitive disadvantage to our nation, when, unfortunately, by not listening to the professional arguments of the government, we are already used to doing so, but here, even further, it excludes the Hungarian university and research community from the Erasmus and Horizon European programmes, in the professional position of the rectors and student organisations chosen by the autonomous organisations of Hungarian universities, senates. If anything, this is a violation of teaching, research autonomy, freedom. Here, too, I confirm: we protect Hungarian university students, teachers and researchers from unfair attacks! What is more, we protect not only Hungarian university students and researchers, but all students, teachers and students from the Hungarian university, regardless of their nationality. On the other hand, Brussels is using discrimination against our nation. We would like to reach an agreement with Brussels as soon as possible, so we continue to make reasonable compromises, as we have done so far, we are ready and ready, because the interests of Hungarian people, Hungarian young people and Hungarian researchers are the first. Erasmus has been provided until 30 June 2024 and all Hungarian students and teachers who wish to participate in this programme will be guaranteed participation, and there will be an international mobility programme after that. We provide HUF 5 billion in funding for Horizon programmes, so we participate in the programmes as associated members until they realize in Brussels that every second Hungarian research is the result of cooperation with a European university. By doing so, we are in favour of European research, because researchers in Hungary are really strengthening Europe against Brussels. Dear Parliament, The bill before you aims at nothing less than to make Hungary the top ten European innovators in the world by 2030. The basis of our actions rests on the following. According to the Global Innovation Index, in which all the countries of the world are represented, Hungary is ranked 34th. In the world ranking of GDP per capita, our country is ranked 49th, i.e. we can say that we are better than the innovation performance that results from our economic performance. We could be content with that, but we want to be even better, even more effective. The European Innovation Scoreboard presents 32 indicators from 12 groups, Hungary is ranked 21st, the first among the emerging innovators in the European Union. In a detailed analysis of the 12 indicator groups, it can be concluded that there are three areas where significant progress is needed in the field of innovation, which is also supported by this regulatory proposal. One: strengthening the number of researchers and developers, especially in the technical, natural sciences, engineering and IT field. We are moving forward on a regular basis, because in 2010 there were 3,000 people/million researchers, last year we were already at 6,000 people, but the 2030 target was 9,000 people/million. We also need to strengthen the number and proportion of innovative businesses. Currently, one third of companies are innovating, but in Europe this ratio extends to every other company, so that is what we need to achieve here too. Intellectual property rights, i.e. patents, trademarks, design rights, in Hungary, have about one and a half patents for 1 billion euros of GDP, the EU is reaching roughly twice that, so we need to strengthen it in the coming period. All these measures serve a major purpose, and this is not only a step forward on the measuring scale, but also a strengthening of Hungarian added value, i.e. domestic efficiency, strength, knowledge economy, in other words, a pledge of our potential for the future. In order to achieve this goal, in consultation with the research and economic community, we have created the John von Neumann programme, which has set out the nine priority measures that will help us to achieve the above-mentioned goal. We are doing this by resolving our current western Europe and US-oriented research dependency by introducing priority countries for R &amp; D and innovation, such as South Korea, Singapore and Japan. [[12.10]] The program was named after János Neumann because Neumann is not only the world-famous figure of Hungarian science, without whose discoveries, as we know, the creation of the theoretical operating bases of the digital computer would probably be very different in today's world. His attention in his research was constantly focused on the impact, the practical applicability of inventions. In honor of János Neumann, born 120 years ago, our task is that Hungarian researchers should be Martians now, who will start, strengthen Hungarian research and innovation, further strengthen that innovation, continue to work on linking universities with the dominant economic players, and strengthen our innovation ecosystem. Dear Parliament, The focus of the implementation of the Neumann János programme is on strengthening the knowledge-based economy through the development of existing institutions and the implementation of new programmes. The three key words of the John von Neumann program are association, impact, measurement. Association, i.e. the interconnection of universities, research institutes and economic operators; impact, which can be an economic, social, intellectual or scientific impact; and measurement, i.e. continuous and adequate measurement of the above. With regard to these principles, we have formulated nine of our main measures: 1. We set Hungarian research on an international course. 2. We promote excellent innovation ideas on the market. 3. We focus on our innovation investments, focus on healthy life, greening, digital transition and security. 4. We provide a predictable career for Hungarian researchers. 5. We provide a discount for Hungarian businesses and inventors in patent applications. 6. The patent is worth a doctorate. We encourage innovation in scientific progress. 7. We will help to raise funds for companies that have made use of research results. 8. We are creating a space for cooperation between universities and the economy, and a park of science and innovation. 9. Finally, unlimited innovations or other Hungarian innovations throughout the Carpathian Basin. Please allow me to present in more detail the measures envisaged. 1. Renewal of the Eötvös Loránd Research Network in terms of results while preserving the multidisciplinary nature of the research institute network. The scientific success of the Hungarian research network, consisting of 18 research centres, 2500 researchers, is necessary to significantly improve and bring the ELKH into international orbit. We want to promote this through three priority interventions: 1. Renewal of ELKH's governance and consensus between the Academy and the government will create a more effective governing body. 2. Complementing its financing logic in the ELKH by establishing a result-based financing pillar. 3. Create model, i.e. setting the ELKH on an international course by attracting world-class research teams into the Hungarian innovation ecosystem in the coming years that are able to significantly increase the quality of Hungarian research. Measure 2. Establishment of the National Innovation Agency. The role of the National Research, Development and Innovation Office has been significantly strengthened in recent years. The number of clients, i.e. the economy, universities and research participants has increased more than three times over this period, and the available resources of the NRDI Fund have doubled. In order to further strengthen innovation results, it is necessary to complement the NRDIH as a funding agency, including a service agency actively and continuously involving actors in the innovation ecosystem. If I want to sum this up in my line of work, it's the creation of a catalyst association agency. Measure 3. Focus on R &amp; D and innovation investments. Within the framework of the Neumann János programme, we have identified the focus areas and their selection methodology to which the RDI resources need to be focused over the next period in order to strengthen the economic impact of RDI spending. When selecting the focus areas, we took into account three aspects: (1) our available capabilities, competences; (2) the future capacity of the given area, technology; (3) the issues that are important for our Hungarian community. Based on these criteria, the following three plus one RDI focus area has been defined by the Neumann János programme: healthy life, greening, digital transition, security and protection. Measure 4. Establishment of the Research Reality Council. Based on international good practices and in order to strengthen research effectiveness, it is appropriate to put excellence-based research proposals into a single, independent system by setting up the Research Excellence Council. On the basis of the proposal, the newly established Research Excellence Council will become the number one actor in these excellence research support programmes, which will be responsible for the launch, preparation of excellence research proposals and for calls for proposals. The members of the Board shall be proposed by the President of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, the President of the ELKH and the Minister for Science. We undertake to ensure the financing of the Council on an autonomous chapter-based appropriation and to implement all these decisions. Proposal 5. Reinforcing industrial property protection activities. To this end, the draft proposes two key amendments: (1) a 75% reduction in patent notification and maintenance fees for four priority target groups: individuals, SMEs, universities, research institutes. In addition, we are planning a 15 per cent reduction in electronic notifications, with a clear aim of bringing as many notifications as possible to the e-mail route. In addition, simplifying the procedure for the application of design rights, thereby reducing the lead time. Proposal 6. Increase the number of doctoral students and mandatory presentation of innovation activities in scientific progress. Although we have significantly increased the number of PhD students over the last few years, it can be found in an international comparison that Hungary's relevant value does not yet reach the OECD average. As I said, our strategic goal is to increase the number of researchers per million inhabitants to 9,000. To do this, we need to increase the number of graduates in doctoral education. They must have gotten used to me speaking in the language of numbers, so this means that from the current 2,700 people to 3,500 people, the number of admissions to doctoral school should be increased annually. In order to achieve these objectives, the draft proposes to increase the social contribution tax allowance linked to the employment of doctoral students and to introduce provisions to ensure that patent activity can partially trigger publication activity. 7. Facilitate financing of start-ups. In Hungary, the existing legal environment cannot be applied in substance, a legal and financial structure considered to be adopted by international standards, in which it is able to invest an investor's capital in an undertaking in such a way that the share or share of the equity is not determined immediately, only in a subsequent investment circle, i.e. the acquisition takes place at a later date. In order to resolve this, we will create the possibility of using a loan that can be converted into capital and capital advance as start-ups, start-ups and financing instruments, thus creating a significantly more favourable financing environment for start-up innovative Hungarian companies. 8. Development of science and innovation parks. The main objective of the science and innovation parks is to promote the growth of SMEs, large companies, start-ups, recovery companies in future technological areas, in cooperation with universities such as artificial intelligence, machine learning, biotechnology and other similar areas. There are many international examples of this in the world, which will be introduced in the years to come. Measure 9. Creating the RFI-supportability of Hungarian higher education institutions abroad. In addition, by repaying the old debt, we propose that the use of the National Research, Development and Innovation Fund cover the entire Carpathian Basin. [[12.20]] Dear Parliament, The bill before you on the amendment of certain laws necessary to facilitate the economic exploitation of innovation and scientific results also contains a number of elements in the area of higher education. The proposal simplifies and accelerates the time needed for administrative procedures for skilled workers. It is also known that, as a result of the government's efforts, eight out of ten students are now studying state scholarship training. As a general rule, 12 semesters are available to obtain the diploma. The public scholarship is also subject to obligations, so it is necessary to obtain the diploma within a certain period of time and then to maintain an employment relationship in Hungary. Of course, in order to support families, the duration of childcare benefits is included in the domestic employment relationship. The existing rules already provide the opportunity to extend the period of support for people with disabilities by four semesters in their higher education institution. Our proposal for equal opportunities is that, in such a case, the national higher education law would extend the time required for obtaining a diploma. Furthermore, the amendment of the law allows dual training to be organised in a working order other than full-time training, thereby increasing the number of higher education students participating in dual education. The Senate of the Budapest Contemporary Dance College decided that the higher education institution will continue to operate under the name of the Budapest Academy of Circus Arts and Contemporary Dance. It's more than a name change. This is also important because Hungarian circus art is valuable and valuable in our increasingly confusing world. The bill also contains a number of amendments for deregulation purposes. Dear Parliament, In order for Hungarian universities and related research networks to be synonymous with quality everywhere, we have done a lot and we will do much more. Our aim is to make Hungary the most dynamic knowledge centre in Central Europe by 2030 as the heirs of our predecessors, Klebelsberg or Neumann, so we pay special attention to our universities, research institutes, our national research institute and the taking up of new opportunities. We provide all the conditions and supportive environments from which the Johns of Neumann of our time can start. We must give every opportunity to young talent who will conquer the world from home. Hungarian creativity, innovation and success are the key to our future. The bill is a cornerstone of this. To do this, I ask with respect the support of the Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-24-38	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mrs Tünde Szabó. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-24-39	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, T/4031. The bill, tabled on a number of issues, presents important innovations and technical corrections for the new strategy of Hungarian science, as we have heard from the Secretary of State. One of the main elements of the Neumann János programme is the linking of university education and the economy as effectively as possible. The government's priority is to strengthen the knowledge economy, thus bringing the innovation and science policy successes of the past years to an even higher level and to help Hungary's future potential. To this end, progress will be made in further strengthening innovation results, facilitating the financing of innovative start-ups, the renewal of the Eötvös Loránd Research Network, the eligibility of foreign higher education institutions and the expansion of the social contribution tax allowance linked to the employment of doctoral students. There have been a lot of steps in the field of Hungarian research in the previous years, which is why it is essential to link the economy, universities and research networks. Our strategy is to increase the added value of domestic companies, one of the key tools of which is to shape the economic, social and intellectual impact created by the actors of domestic innovation. The government also defined a complex package of measures named Neumann, which will help Hungary to achieve these plans. In addition to doubling the number of researchers compared to 2010, it is essential that we have as many innovative businesses as possible, which invent new products, patents and trademarks, in addition to the work-based society, strengthens the knowledge-based society, as this gives the Hungarian added value that is needed to make the future of the Hungarian nation as stable and successful as possible. The Neumann János programme includes the strengthening of the national research network, the Eötvös Loránd Research Network, which includes 18 research centres with 2500 researchers. The draft aims to renew the network with a view to achieving results while preserving the multidisciplinary nature of the research institute network. This will also be done by reducing the number of members of the Governing Board of the Research Network to 9 persons. We have an important intention to put Hungarian ideas on the market as soon as possible and to source them. To this end, the operation of the National Research Development and Innovation Office is complemented by an innovation agent activity. It is therefore essential to establish a National Innovation Agency, which can be the primary depositary for ensuring the economic and social use of resources in the field of innovation and science policy. It is very important to strengthen the involvement of new start-ups in the market in the future. The proposal also provides legal opportunities for borrowing and the use of capital advance forms of financing to facilitate the financing of start-ups. These are the special legal instruments for financing start-ups, which have been available and widely employed in successful innovation areas for decades. The main aim of the science and innovation parks is to strengthen and promote the growth of Hungarian SMEs and large enterprises, start-ups and recyclable businesses in future technological areas. At the same time, it is also important to break down bureaucratic barriers and to create a significant reduction in the patent fee announcements of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. It is therefore an important element of this bill to aim at reducing patent application and maintenance fees, speeding up the granting of design rights and simplifying the classification of research and development activities. The 2001 XLVIII. The amendment of law aims to speed up the granting of design rights. In line with the legislation of the vast majority of European countries, as well as the practice of the European Union Intellectual Property Office, the ex officio research on the novelty and individual nature of the sample will be terminated by leaving the possibility of novelty research optionally in the form of a protection opinion on the basis of customers' requests. XXXIII of 1995 on the patent protection of inventions The amendment of the Act proposes a differentiated fee reduction, according to which for four priority target groups the amendment will result in a 75% reduction in fees for individuals as individual inventors, SMEs, universities and research institutes. In addition, the proposal includes a 15% reduction in fees for electronic notifications, with the aim of ensuring that industrial property management can be achieved by electronic means as much as possible. [[12.30]] For increased results, it is essential that the scholarship system and career of young researchers be strengthened and strengthened, so that the newly created Research Excellence Council could become the number one player in the future of excellence research support programmes. The members of the Board are proposed by the President of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, the Chairman of the Eötvös Loránd Research Network and the KIM Minister. The proposal submitted should also be supported because it also proposes to amend and correct a number of higher education law to increase efficiency. For example, Nftv. one of its amendments will allow scientific research and its socio-economic utilisation, in particular its innovation nature, to be assessed in addition to the scientific or artistic publications appearing in the course of its application in teaching and research positions. The draft will also further develop doctoral training, which will give you the opportunity to deviate from the minimum number of lessons in the doctoral regulations, which will also serve the purpose of giving doctoral students the opportunity to make more use of their innovation skills in industry. LII of 2018 on social contribution tax. The aim of the amendment of the Act is to increase the social contribution tax linked to the employment of doctoral students in order to ensure that companies support the participation of their employees in doctoral training as much as possible. Under the proposal, employers do not have to pay sochos up to HUF 500 000 gross monthly for their doctoral staff, with a flat rate of 13 per cent. The 2014 LXXVI on scientific research, development and innovation. The amendment of the Act also creates the eligibility of foreign higher education institutions, as our government strategic goal is to develop higher education in the Hungarian language in the Carpathian Basin, both in the field of education and research and innovation activities. The amendment therefore also proposes to extend the use of the National Research, Development and Innovation Fund from domestic to the Carpathian Basin. Point of gravity: the proposal also makes a detour to amend the recognition law, which allows for the possibility of a parallel launch of the Alien Police and Recognition Procedures in the case of applications submitted by a senior employer. This amendment significantly reduces the duration of administrative procedures for skilled workers. Dear Parliament, In order to facilitate the economic exploitation of innovation and scientific results, the amendments contained in this motion could raise the innovation, scientific policy successes of recent years to a higher level, and strengthen the results of the economic, social and intellectual impact created by the actors of domestic innovation. These are the objectives of the bill amending certain laws necessary to facilitate the economic exploitation of innovation and scientific results. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, As has been said, the bill before us contains provisions to support, since only good innovation is the one that responds and solves the practical challenges of everyday life. On this basis, the Fidesz Group supports the proposed bill, and this is what we propose to the Honourable Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-24-40	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mrs Judit Ráczné Földi. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-24-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The proposal to amend certain laws necessary to facilitate the economic exploitation of innovation and scientific results as a salad law amends 22 laws, some of which are surprisingly unrelated neither to innovation nor to scientific activity. Contrary to the title of the law, the proposal does not contain strong, decisive measures in the field of innovation and the economic exploitation of science, nor has it identified new resources, discounts or incentives. Among the general objectives of the bill, there are several delays, such as the fact that it aims at linking universities and research institutions and the economy for the period after 2010, since this objective and starting practice were formulated before 2010 at the time of the second Gyurcsány government, when this particular area was managed at ministerial level. The numerous measures of the law fall into a different area and contain several points that raise further measures and questions. I'd bet a few on that. Decision XXXIV of 2004 on small and medium-sized enterprises and support for their development The amendment of law proposes the creation of a loan that can be converted into capital and the legal possibility of forms of capital advance financing. These are special legal instruments for financing SMEs. It is interesting that the provision covers only the limited liability company that is considered to be an SME or the private limited limited liability company that is considered to be an SME. The capital advance and the loan that can be converted into capital shall be included in an annex to the annual accounts by the entity required to draw up annual accounts pursuant to Act C of 2000 on Accounting. This certainly strengthens the transparency of these transactions, indeed; the problem is, however, that the regulation does not cover the simplified annual accounts or the circles of micro-farmers. The vast majority of the reports submitted are in this regard. There is a lack of guarantees to prevent violent buying-in. An entity in a temporary situation which is unable to obtain liquid funds from a financial institution within a short period of time may be put in a vulnerable position in such transactions. The 2011 CCIV on national higher education. The amendment of the Act allows for a derogation from the minimum number of lectures in the doctoral regulations so that doctoral students have the opportunity to use their knowledge in industry. It is proposed that scientific research and its social and economic utilisation, and in particular its innovation nature, should also be assessed in the application of its teaching and research roles. This provision raises the problem of not determining exactly what objective criteria this assessment will be based on. The proposal is the 2014 LXXVI on scientific research, development and innovation. By amending law, it creates the eligibility of foreign higher education institutions. The amendment proposes to extend the use of the National Research, Development and Innovation Fund from domestic to Carpathian Basin. It is an indisputable fact that the support of Hungarian higher education institutions from abroad can and must be fully approved. However, the state of the Hungarian higher education institutions and the unequal distribution of their support so far suggest that this provision will not solve the wrong practice so far, according to which inequalities will continue to increase and we will create the chance. According to the proposal, the tasks of the Hungarian Design Council will be performed by the body designated by the government by the decree, i.e. the National Research, Development and Innovation Office and the National Innovation Agency, instead of the National Intellectual Property Office. On the basis of the proposal, the newly created Research Excellence Council will become the number one player and key to excellence research support programmes in the future. The Research Excellence Council is also responsible for the preparation of excellence research proposals and the implementation of decisions as a body. [[12.40]] In order to eliminate more effective work and duplication, the proposal removes the administrative procedure and transfers the tasks and powers of issuing the opinion to the body designated by the government. That raises a lot of questions. What's the reason for this? In order to increase the efficiency of the governing body of the Eötvös Loránd Research Network, the proposal intends to reduce the number of members of the Governing Board to 9. 8 members of the Governing Board are proposed jointly by the Minister for Science Policy Coordination and the President of the MTA. The President will continue to be jointly proposed to the Prime Minister by the Minister for the Coordination of Science Policy and the President of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. So far, there have been 13 members of this body. Now the number of members will be reduced to 9 and not proposed separately, but the Minister, together with the President of the MTA, will present a consensus proposal on the condition that at least two thirds of the members of the Governing Board are selected from among the academics. This removes the right of the President of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences to propose on his own. XLIX of 2018 on state tasks related to the development of Budapest and agglomeration, and on the implementation of certain improvements, and on certain laws on Hungary's film support programme. The amendment of the Act ensures that the timely feasibility of investments for the restoration and sustainable development of the Buda Palace district is not hindered by the rule of the Budapest Municipality that the activity involving the dismantling of the road surface cannot be carried out for a period of five years after the total width of the road surface has been restored. The above provisions also clearly show that the fight between Budapest and the government continues. As part of this, the government constantly tries to restrict, hinder, and penalise Budapest. An example of this is this amending proposal. The capital's decree states that it is not possible to carry out hull dismantling for a period of five years after the road surface has been restored in full width. The government is now using this proposal to override it at a legal level. They shall contain amendments to the law on the application of property or technical specifications or provisions relating to the provision of real estate assets to that foundation. These legislative amendments illustrate exactly the government's unbroken intention to continue the legislative process with which these foundations can obtain additional real estate and property elements free of charge. In view of the fact that the bill amends several laws such as the creation of KEKVA foundations or the Eötvös Loránd Research Network, which the Democratic Coalition has not supported, we will therefore not support this bill. I mean, Mr. Secretary, allow me a sentence. At the beginning, he started this debate with the Erasmus programme. I would like to note here that we will not receive the funds for this programme, not because of what you have said, but because your representatives, undersecretaries of state, Members of Parliament are sitting in these Curatoriums, and they will indeed receive millions of allowances, which the European Union condemns. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2023-05-24-42	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr István Hollik. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-05-24-43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Allow me to respond to the last sentences of the congresswoman. Madam Congressman, unfortunately, we are not receiving European Union funding because you, your MEPs, are working to condemn Hungary and to prevent Hungary from getting access to these funds. Therefore, the Erasmus programme and all the sources of catch-up and RRF have not arrived in Hungary, which would be ours, because you work together with your colleagues in Brussels to ensure that they do not arrive. They think that this is how you can harm the Hungarian government, but they do not realize that they are not hurting the Hungarian government, they are working to prevent teachers from getting paid, they are working to prevent Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, for example, from spending additional resources on innovation, and they are working to make Erasmus impossible. So I think the responsibility here is yours in the first place. Returning to the bill before us, it is quite clear that if you read or listened to the proposal, Mr. Secretary of State's exposé, that this proposal reflects a completely clear, thought-out strategy, and the focus of this strategy is on how to modernise the Hungarian economy, make Hungarian economic growth sustainable in the long term and assign sub-purposes and instruments to it. Obviously, it is an important goal to link economic operators to university life as much as possible. The possibilities of this, I think, are now given, and the example of universities that have undergone a change of model shows that this is increasingly happening and that now has practical benefits. Mr Secretary of State has also mentioned that in some comparisons modeled universities are increasingly involved. Obviously, the aim is also to strengthen the research and development of Hungarian companies, to strengthen competitiveness through cutting red tape, or to strengthen industrial property protection, which is more neglected in previous years, because as innovation grows, the more emphasis needs to be placed, I think, on industrial property protection. This is also a welcome goal. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that what says a lot about a country's economy, apart from economic growth, is how complex it is. I think that the more complex, the more on the feet of an economy, the more it can be said that long-term, stable, sustainable economic growth is guaranteed. It is important to mention this here because Hungary is ranked 9th in comparison to economic complexity. This, in turn, imposes an obligation and tasks on us: if the economy is so complex, we need to place great emphasis on the ability of companies operating in different economic sectors to innovate, to use state aid for research and development, and to have qualified professionals who can work in it. I think that this proposal before us is of great help. Since the Secretary of State presented the details, I would like to highlight two things. One is the support of science parks in terms of research and development. What is obviously not to be stressed is that if we only think of Silicon Valley, Cambridge or Amsterdam science park, that these science parks alone, where the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprise can meet the multinational company and universities, these cooperations have great value, and they can come out of this with incredible economic and research results. So the support for these, I think, must be a priority. The other thing I would like to highlight, although many people obviously think that this is not the essential part of the proposal, is the amendment of the law on national higher education, which says that dual training can also be organised in a working order other than full-time training, I think this is an important part of it. In particular, although the law already allows students with disabilities to increase their time of support, this has not yet been accompanied by an extension of the time limit for obtaining a diploma for a given scholarship, and this amendment makes up for this pre-existing deficit, the amendment creates this possibility. [[12.50]] So, overall, I think that the clear strategy, as defined in this bill, is to be supported, and the instruments or legislative amendments assigned to the strategy are to help the Hungarian economy modernise and that universities and businesses in Hungary can work with each other even more in harmony and in cooperation. Therefore, the Christian Democratic People's Party will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-24-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Zoltán Vajda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-24-45	Thank you very much for giving me the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, What we see is that the Ministry of Culture and Innovation has collected ideas for the amendment of legislation in a salad law in its respective areas. For this reason, the proposal also includes provisions on additional asset allocation to higher education, research and development enterprises and universities with foundational reservations, i.e. a very broad range. I would like to start with the positives first, because some amendments concerning higher education and doctoral education are certainly eligible. The National Higher Education Act already allows students with disabilities to increase support time. However, this does not currently entail an extension of the time limit for obtaining a diploma for a given scholarship, which creates this possibility. The extension of the social contribution tax allowance linked to the employment of doctoral students is also an eligible direction. The fact that companies support the participation of their employees in doctoral training as much as possible is a positive effort. Under the proposal, employers do not have to pay sochos up to HUF 500 000 gross monthly for their doctoral staff, i.e. a flat rate of 13 per cent. The extent to which this will be successful is not yet fully clear, because it is only important for employers to carry out the assigned tasks, while the completion of a doctoral course takes at least four, but rather five to six years, i.e. it takes a great deal of time and energy from the employee. If a proposal is allowed, the scope of tax relief could be extended in this context, so that not only employers but also workers can receive tangible support. It would also be worth giving doctoral students a discount, which would be truly motivating to complete the training. This would, on the one hand, support the work of trainers, since they can only use it if they work in addition to training, since the state scholarship is exempt. On the other hand, a PhD student has to make serious financial sacrifices in training, just enough, say, conferences, publishing, research, and the rest, to think. It is also clear that SMEs' financing opportunities have been reduced in the high inflation era, and the government is already feeling that. This is indicated by the introduction of two new legal institutions, such as a loan that can be converted into capital and an advance on capital. The loan that can be converted into capital can be converted into a business gap, i.e. typically a short-term member loan. After a given time or events, the loan that can be converted into capital becomes a business gap. Until the loan becomes a part of the business, the loan that can be converted into capital behaves like a loan, i.e. interest must be paid on it. The capital advance, unlike the loan that can be converted into capital, does not have interest and maturity. In other countries, these solutions are already known, not necessarily working badly, but once again, there is no excuse for today's Hungarian money market conditions. SMEs that do not receive interest-supported credit are simply not only unable to develop but also difficult to operate. They should make a rapid change in brutal inflation and skyrocketed interest rates. Other eligible elements of the proposal include the reduction of patent fees and the possibility for Ukrainian teachers fleeing to Hungary due to the war in Ukraine to participate in the education that the teacher himself speaks in which he is prepared to pursue his profession. We are seeing a number of changes that indicate the government's intention to redeploy research. Since the research network was removed from the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, they have been trying to radically transform the operation of the organization. It is now clear that the number of members of the governing body of the Eötvös Loránd Research Network will be reduced to nine. The newly created Research Excellence Council will become the number one player in excellence research grants and programmes in the future. The Research Excellence Council shall be responsible for the preparation of excellence research proposals and the preparation of the call for proposals. Finally, I would like to point out that Fidesz has not completed its intention to transfer as much of the remaining national assets into private hands, they are being handed over to private foundations that maintain universities. We now see that they now intend to hand over an airport, a hospital, a plowhouse, and additional real estate. It remains unclear why a university would work better just because its maintainer has castles, yacht ports and palaces. However, they are much better explained by an American Republican thinker close to you. He openly stated that the Prime Minister had only one intention: to build a deep state, a deep state, that even if the will of the people no longer favors him, he and his circle should have these assets and tasks in their hands. Nor in recent years, we cannot support it now. In view of all this, I would like to point out that our faction will remain on this proposal. Thank you so much for letting me tell you.
u2023-05-24-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Brenner Koloman, who will make his speech here on the stand. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-05-24-47	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We are debating a very important issue between the walls of this House. As some of my fellow Members have already pointed out, this is a salad law which affects several parts of the complex set of problems that the 21st edition of the 21st edition of the European Parliament and of the Council have been adopted. In the centuries of knowledge and information, how can we better connect innovation and science. In the State Secretary's Expo, Mr. State Secretary referred to the change of model in the Hungarian university world as one of these magical methods. I would like to begin with this, perhaps, because on this issue I have repeatedly expressed the opinion of the Jobbik-Conservatives that university autonomy in Europe has been a serious value since the Middle Ages, and in our opinion it is that, without proper preparation, almost 80 percent of the university world has been transferred to foundations in which, with a one-off decision, only persons linked to Fidesz, otherwise active ministers, state ministers, and others, have been placed in the first round; in such a way that these curators could be set up in time for an unlimited period of time, or if a board member resigned, as they were now obliged to withdraw active ministers and state ministers from the curatoriumsions, so that the same four fideses have been elected another Fidesz. Now, this is a real threat to academic autonomy and academic freedom. In addition, I, the rapporteur of the Council of Europe, tried to remember this in a balanced way in my report on academic freedom and university autonomy. So I think that the use of innovation and science in society does not depend on whether a university has undergone a fidesz model change or not. [[13.00]] Because I think, however, that the change of model has indeed damaged the autonomy of the university, there are very serious concerns about how the members of the Board of Foundation appreciate their role. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Because, Mr. Secretary of State, in the Anglo-Saxon world, where you would like to refer to Harvard, Cambridge, and so on, the foundation works completely differently. There, it works as if there were accumulated wealth, for historical reasons, because, for example, the ELTE had taken everything, and after Trianon, its estates were gone, as well as the well-known does not work that way; and there are all actors: university management, elected Senate of university citizens and board, so the board, the curatorium, knows exactly its responsibilities. And they wouldn't remember the board members asking for a) salary because they're there to raise income for these universities, b) the board wouldn't remember what you did at Corvinus or other universities, that the Board member would decide who to be a professor, that you should have a profession to be a faculty; and then you would immediately erase the arms, because the scientific communities in your anti-knowledge and intellectuals policy, right, enemies, because where would we go if people working in a similar field of science would get their own ideas, right? So I think that there may be very serious concerns about what a) this Hungarian university world has brought, (b) the limits of the fidesz overpower on which you have now entered into such a marketcofa-like bargaining with the European Union to receive the resources of Hungarian citizens. Speaking of Hungarian citizens! I think that, after a two-thirds reign of 13 years, while you have constantly devolved the rule of law, European culture is based on three foundations: Christian ethics, Greek-Roman philosophy and Roman law; so you are building this old European conservative value, you are invading the Hungarian state power with one-party overpower, and then when, after all, the European Union funds for Hungarian citizens are no longer intended by the taxpayers of the other countries to provide an institutionalized corruption through government, then you are surprised and you are starting to negotiate that it is good, so that the academic board should have a deadline, well, then we will really withdraw it, because it is embarrassing that Mr Bódis, the State Secretary responsible for higher education, has appointed himself to be the curatorial president of his own university, and that is therefore a burning for a decent civil democracy. So the most ignominious, indecent things are being corrected now; and then they are waiting for the money, while the Hungarian university world and the Hungarian university students are already suffering incredible damage, since the international perception of our country through your pro-Russian and virtually anti-democracy policy is in the same position as that of Trianon; and you are responsible for this disastrous consequence. Compared to this, what chance do you have for Hungarian universities whose rectors are sending letters to Brussels now? Well, congratulations; I'm serious, considering this from a historical point of view, and then, when my fellow historians analyze it later, this will be a discreet charm, I'll tell you. So, when Comrade Rakosi had to write the same things at the time, well, whatever. So, seriously, they cause such incredible damage to the Hungarian university world, the long-term consequences of which will be felt by all Hungarian citizens, and this is your responsibility! Don't point... Mr. Secretary, with your intellect here in your expo, I can't... I can't do this in eight Brussels minutes, it's a little embarrassing, so let's note that to the record. But I understand that this is the task, sometimes, I understand this, but what I think is that both Erasmus grants and current non-access to Horizon resources have already caused serious damage to the Hungarian university world in the long term. Let's talk about the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. Miklós Maróth recently resigned, and the transformation of his governing body, the Eötvös Loránd Research Network, is also involved in this salad law. I would like to point out here that according to the organisation of academic staff, this governance body remains extremely concerned about academic freedom, and this proposal is now tightening it up even further. When I prepared my report for the Council of Europe, I had discussions with both President Freund and his predecessor. So the fact that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán does not meet with the president of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences a long time ago, and he has initiated this several times, I think this shows your attitude to the whole science and the university world. I think that there have been very serious concerns here, too, about this law and about academic freedom. Point three. Let me bring up the pay for the university world, as Jobbik's Wage Union initiative is already and is part of a comprehensive wage catch-up programme. I think that, yes, there was a wage development at the universities with foundational reservations, and then there was a serious discrimination, which has recently been brought to the attention of the government in hundreds of ELTE workers' petitions between the universities with state reservations and the universities with foundation reservations; but even so, even the salaries of colleagues working at foundation universities, not only from the EU average, but even from our fellow regional competitors, are lagging behind! So I think that here we could show the political value choice that we conservatives think about education and the university world, that a truly national and truly conservative government spends more of its own budget, for example, on science and innovation. Now, here, for example, we could show the social appreciation and wages of university teachers; so here too, we would need very serious concrete steps, in our opinion. However, as a national and conservative party, we value the support of the Hungarian university world across the border as very positive. We've always done that, by the way. I myself, as a university leader, have an excellent relationship with Hungarian colleagues across the border. This is a commendable goal and a priority for both national policy and national strategy, in the opinion of our conservative political community. The last point I would like to discuss is the role of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises in our economic policy, since in the legislative package before us it is almost only one loan. I also think that this is such an economic philosophical issue, that it is obviously very important for SMEs to get credit, and no one doubts that. But I think that direct support for micro-enterprises, self-employed people, etc., which employs the majority of Hungarian workers; and if we compare it with the priority of the economic policy of the Fidesz government, which can be considered rather neoliberal, to support, say, a multinational company in bringing workers... In addition, parentheses are now bringing eastern workers to the battery companies, so we can see that thousands of Chinese quotas are arriving in Debrecen, and within the closing line another parentheses is your big anti-migration policy, right, parentheses, closed. So I think that, instead of Eastern workers, we need Western wages and economic policies that are targeted at supporting small and medium-sized enterprises. [[13.10]] This is what the European Union funds should have been used for in the last 13 years, and then we would not have come to the point that, at present, in the year 2023 of the Lord, Hungarian citizens are earning one of the lowest wages in Europe. Let's put it this way. They go from Szeged to Romania to work because they earn more. The political elite of the past 30 years has brought this country here. Let's put it this way. Yeah, from this period, Viktor Orbán and the Fidesz government for 17 long years... so I find it quite repulsive every time my fellow Members point to Brussels and what was before the two world wars, I mean before 2010, for example. I'm sorry, didn't you enjoy being here for the last 30 years on government for 17 years? 'Cause then it's safe to take responsibility, isn't it? I think it's time. Overall, it contains positive moves at some points in the bill before us, such as the dual training system, which facilitates the organisation of education but does not substantially achieve the objectives set. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2023-05-24-48	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Tamás Mellár, the lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-05-24-49	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, Listening to Mr Secretary of State's report, I was a little embarrassed at the beginning, because he wasn't actually organically connected to this bill that was submitted, but he actually told me a success story; and I thought that I might have been sent to the wrong place for this debate. But then, in the second half of his lecture, he really did get to the specifics. I'll split my comment into two parts. I would first like to relate to the Secretary of State's report. Mr Zoltán Hankó Balázs started by saying how successful the change of model was, and here he quoted a list that there is already an international list on which Semmelweis University is at 236th place and how good it is. Good indeed, but unfortunately my bad news is that there are many other lists where there are no Hungarian universities in the first 500 places, so this alone, I think, would not be conclusive. Then, Minister of State, he was pleased to report that the number of scientific publications increased significantly between 2018 and 22. Now, if you are a little familiar with scientific research, you should be aware that the publication that is published in international newspapers in 2021 or 22 will be sent in for adoption about two to three years before that, and the procedure of this will have to be completed, all of it; and the research you report has already started 5 to 6 years earlier. Therefore, the publications that were published in 21-22 were the results of research 5-6-8-10 years earlier, so I think that this could not be referred to now. So, the results of your change of model will, if any, be available at any time after 25:00, if at all. About the same applies to patent applications, which you referred to as the result of a longer process in 2021, obviously, so that these patents are actually accepted. You mentioned, Mr Secretary of State, that Brussels discriminates against us and that Congressman Hollik insisted on this. I would like to join my colleague, Mr Koloman, here. He's been through this very carefully. There is no discrimination here. It is merely that you have deprived universities of autonomy, because you have placed on the necks of universities who are politically appointed, who, in fact, have no respect for the exception. I know curatorials where most of the board members have zero publications in MTMT! Here, take a look. This must be the case at the University of Pécs, I can tell you at least three members of the board who do not have a publication at all, and they decide on scientific questions. If you had taken the European Union and the requirements of the European Union seriously, this entire Curatorium system would have been eliminated or transformed in such a way that the election of the members of the Board would have been entirely put into the hands of the university or the local government. In this regard, I put forward a bill, of course the Fidesz majority voted against it. Then we could really talk about autonomy, but not like this. Then Mr Secretary of State also mentioned, and it is a great pleasure that the objective is to get into the top ten countries of the European Union in terms of innovation by 2030; and he has already said that we are very good at innovation. I would like to ask you to say, come on, that Hungarian products are internationally competitive, which belong to the high-tech sector! And tell me, please, what percentage of Hungarian exports is that which actually contains innovation. But I am thinking of businesses that are Hungarian ownership companies, because I really don't know about them, so it would be a long way to go. You also mentioned that the development of the Eötvös Research Network is also on the agenda. In this regard, I thought that perhaps this law would also take care of the important thing that the Constitutional Court required us to do. At the time, I submitted a paper to the Constitutional Court that questioned whether the Hungarian State had the right to transfer the assets of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences to the Eötvös Research Network. The Constitutional Court found that it was not, because it was not public property, but public property, and found a constitutional failure, and then said that the State had to settle it by 30 June. If I am optimistic, then I hope that you will really settle this by 30 June, although this could have been a good time. As far as the bill itself is concerned, I would like to say the following. I mean, a lot of people have told me that it's a salad law, it's got cricket bugs, it's important, it's not important, it's principle and it's technical. Some are indeed related to innovation and the development of scientific results, some are not at all, but, well, that's what fidesz legislation is. We should've gotten used to that by now. There's obviously a trick in this whole thing, because they put together a lot of things that are really important, and they're really worth accepting, and they're not. Obviously, they expect us to nod on this, or if we don't give a nod, then they will later ask us why we didn't support such positive things. But, obviously, the reason we didn't support him is because he has parts that we can't give our names to. And, of course, this whole bill itself is revealing, because it also points out how over-centralized a system has been established, that every little detail must be regulated by law, and obviously this will bring about a forced orbit, because it will make the amendment of laws permanent. In recent years, it has been seen that new laws are being amended very quickly and very quickly. The biggest problem I see in the entire bill is the transfer of wealth, so that further assets are transferred to universities. There is no way I can support this, there is no way we can support it and tolerate it. As I said, neither is it because there is obviously no legitimate leadership of universities, no university autonomy, no university autonomy. [[13.20]] And it's actually a dog comedy, because most of these assets don't know what to do, so it's very likely they're gonna sell it, and they're obviously gonna sell it to the people you're gonna appoint. So it's such a free distribution of wealth, a hidden privatisation, so we can't support it at all. Returning once again to the fact that there are, of course, very positive elements in this bill, as my fellow Members Zoltán Vajda and Judit Földi referred to, which would be eligible on their own, the employment of foreign teachers, dual training and things could still be said, but unfortunately, this transfer of property, this transfer of wealth is going through everything, and I cannot support it. But I would like to give you some advice because I think it would be in everyone's interest that if you really think seriously about R &amp; D, supporting and enhancing innovation and boosting scientific research, then if you look at the countries that have been successful in this, there are three things. These three things should be strengthened only for you: freedom, democracy and a functioning, competitive market system. If these three things were to be put in order and implemented, then it would be a miracle, because there would indeed be serious scientific research here, and there would be innovation, and ultimately, not least, a competitive Hungarian economy and competitive Hungarian exports. But we are very far from it now, and unfortunately I perceive that the government has not gone in this direction in the last 12 years, so it is not towards freedom, democracy and the development of a competitive economy and a competitive market system, but in the exact opposite direction. Therefore, this can only be a vain fantasy, and we can trust that someday a government will come that will truly set these goals. Thank you very much.
u2023-05-24-50	Thank you very much. No two-minute or normal words were asked. No further applications for opposition by Members. Dear Parliament, The general debate is hereby closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. Here you go.
u2023-05-24-51	Thank you very much for what you said. We agree with Mrs Tünde Szabó, Congresswoman István Hollik, that if you had learned all that the bill itself presented and spent time and energy on this detailed action programme called János Neumann, and set out nine measures in which successful Hungarian researchers, educators and university leaders are present, who have been constantly insulted by you, by not having the right research performance, then Hungary can become a research, innovation and knowledge-rich environment and can continue to strengthen itself through the above-mentioned measures, with a realistic aim to become among the 25 best innovators in the world and to become Hungary's ten best innovators in Europe. Thank you very much for your confirmation on this. If I may, I would try not to go into all the details, although I would be happy to do so, but I will try to disprove them in aggregate terms, answering them in terms of terms and terms, in support of facts rather than feelings. I would like to point out that, before 2010, there may have been a goal of linking Hungarian universities and the economy, but it has been able to make significant progress in the realization of businesses, economic operators, research networks and university cooperation in recent years that has allowed for a 70% increase in RDI revenues by economic operators to universities. In the same way, when we say that proposals are not strong, they do not try to make us appear as those who do not understand what research is and what innovation is. This nine-point package of measures is a package of proposals developed jointly by the Hungarian Academy, the Hungarian research network, the Hungarian university leaders and the dominant Hungarian economic operators. Let us accept that they know how to develop research, innovation and economic life. The question of safe note, convertible note was then published in all speeches. This is not a buy-in, it is an opportunity for innovation grants in the world to create that there are innovation funds, there are research proposals, and there are innovation projects supported by investors that are aimed at making innovation a success that will help Hungarian SMEs as quickly as possible. So this means strengthening and linking up successful innovation economic practice. In the course of doctoral courses, which we also want to strengthen, and where we want to achieve precisely that patents and inventions become a scientific achievement, we should partially replace the publications, so that from here on out, I stress, autonomously, because the specific doctoral school of that university decides on the extent to which it does it, taking into account the specialities of the particular area of training. Interestingly, this is precisely the autonomy, which is exactly the framework that this regulation provides. The Carpathian Basin and our Hungarian higher education institutions from abroad in the Carpathian Basin: in order to have Hungarian higher education there in 5-10-15-20 years' time and to strengthen the maintenance in the homeland, it is in our fundamental interest to have innovation sources, doctoral scholarships, doctoral programmes that create and keep young teachers of the future there, making the entire higher education in the Carpathian Basin even stronger. And this is a synergy that we are trying to ensure synergy with Hungarian higher education institutions in Hungary and abroad. Eötvös Loránd Research Network Management Board is interesting. We think, and in consultation with the Academy of Sciences, the actors of the Academy of Sciences, consensus is stronger than 50-50 nominations. Thus, by consensus, we can achieve what the whole bill involves, by the way, that the Academy, the Eötvös Loránd Research Network and the regulator, funder and economic operators responsible for science policy look in the same direction, as it is the one direction to strengthen the Hungarian knowledge economy, the Hungarian added value. The question of asset relief has also been raised in several contributions. Let us sink for a moment, as you like to attack, in the regulation of public-service trust foundations. As you know, this is the year 2021. Law. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: Law requires all assets, all purposes to be financed by public service and public interest, to be used for them. So from now on, these must be the funding of the university's core activities, education, research and third mission activities. Interestingly, in the case of property benefits, real estate benefits are made in which the health care of the institution is already being provided. The question is that if this public service mission, public interest trust funds, is the objective and use of property in the public interest, then we can provide a more efficient, better, more predictable and more autonomous regulation. [[Sic!]] [[13.30]] Erasmus issue. When I was talking about Erasmus, it was hard to see you smiling at him. It's just as bad to feel and it's bad to know [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: We smiled at the propaganda text!]] Instead of helping Hungarian researchers, internationalisation of Hungarian young people and international relations to grow, you are doing exactly the opposite. If I may, Congressman Brenner Koloman, what is awkward? Is it embarrassing that Jobbik, calling himself conservative, enters into alliances where there is even the fundamental issue in which we can agree that support for foreign Hungarians is important, not fundamental, not ground-breaking? Then I think it's a good place to stop dissecting embarrassing questions. You wrote a report, so you're an expert on autonomy. Let's take a look at the autonomy of the university. As we all know, there are four dimensions of university autonomy, the European Federations of Universities, the European Academy of Sciences: one dimension is organisational autonomy, the other dimension is financing autonomy, the third dimension is the autonomy of the employees themselves, teachers, researchers, and the fourth dimension is the autonomy of education research. If we evaluate Hungary, the universities of Hungary, in these four dimensions, it is extremely high in terms of academic autonomy, it has an appropriate scoring of 80 per cent; in the case of employees, it is precisely because a freer employment opportunity has become available for the labour code of nearly 100 per cent; in the financing autonomy, by having six years of public service financing contracts and 25 years of framework agreements, we also receive an almost 90 per cent autonomy, and in the case of organizational autonomy, almost 80 per cent, the provision of autonomy in the Hungarian institutions. [[To Dr. Tamás Mellar:]] You can smile about it, but the facts are facts. I am about to try to answer the points raised by Congressman Mellar on the basis of facts. [[Dr. Tamás Mellar: That'd be great.]] So much for autonomy. If we look at the essence of autonomy and look at it not on an emotional basis, but on a fact-based basis, then the numbers are clear. Let's talk a little bit about 105 Board members. If you know the members of the board so well, you must know that nearly half of the members of the board have academic background, with a total of 14 rectors or prorectors among the members of the board. Then will academic freedom issues be enforced in the Curatorium, where there is consensus decision-making? And the fact that economic and public actors are involved is the essence of the model change itself, the gear change structure and strategy adopted in 2016, which is precisely what we wanted to achieve so that the actors in university and economic life can cooperate more closely. And I reject the rectors, who are elected by the Senate leaders of universities, expressing their own opinion on universities, how do you think that these independent head of institutions would be managed? However, it makes me think that you know for sure, Mr President, when the European Commission first asked the opinion of Hungarian universities about how and how they view Hungarian university autonomy in relation to Horizon and Erasmus programmes. This took place in the second half of February, more than two months after the conviction decision was taken. I'm asking you, where did you get your information? Your allies will tell you what, why and how they are doing against Hungarian university students, Hungarian university autonomy, in order to prevent the source that goes along with the development of Hungarian universities. And speaking of EU issues, we can agree that higher education is not an EU competence, but a national competence. It's a rent question. Twice 15 percent wage development meant 64 billion forints in total. Two percent wage development was granted to both state and non-state institutions. ELTE had HUF 4.3 billion, which was spent on wage development, and this year it was completed with HUF 1.2 billion extra. Over the past years, a wage structure has developed which, in addition to the basic wage, allows premierization and additional funding for scientific performance, publication activity and other indicators that can be measured scientifically and educationally, since the funding of universities has been doubled overall. SMEs. I would like to clarify one thing: we are not talking about an SME loan scheme before a report is made; we are talking about innovation activities that introduce a special form of financing related to innovation activities, because our aim is to make as many Hungarian SMEs as possible, to create as much Hungarian SMEs as possible Hungarian added value, and therefore we need to use the specialties of this. I would like to point out the following to Mr Mellar's comments. I think the data clearly confirms that significant progress has been made in Hungarian higher education, in Hungarian innovation in recent years. Congressman, look at the MTMT database, compare the data, and based on this, you will receive the same numbers as I said here in the presentation and in my expo. Let's have a little argument about the Ranking. You are well aware, Mr President, there are two types of Rankings: one where absolute value is seen, Hungary will no longer be competitive on the basis of the size of universities and the number of students and teachers there; the other Ranking type is the quotient type of Ranking, and in this quotient type of Ranking, which looks at the ratio of teachers or students, we have made significant progress. We will continue to move forward in these Rankings. Let's keep moving. I'm a little familiar with the publications, so I know how to publish, I know how long the publication result will take. Yes, the fact that in 2021-22 there was such a significant increase in scientific performance, the change of model, the change of model... [[Dr. Tamás Mellar intervenes.]] Be nice, ask Pécs. due to a related performance and quality incentive system, where D1, Q1, Q2 publications do not go into this details we provide additional incentive elements. Speaking of which, let me answer you again. In Hungary, you asked, Member, the proportion of high-tech exports is 66 per cent and the average of the European Union is 55 per cent. And I was just talking about the asset relief issues. So I have to say that the Hungarian economy, with the participants in scientific life, has presented to Parliament a bill that sets out as a realistic goal to be among the top 10 innovators in the European Union by 2030, the world's top 25 innovators. Please support these proposals. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-24-52	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft legislation on the protection of individuals with regard to the publication of a protocol amending the Convention on the Automatic Processing of Personal Data, dated 28 January 1981, in Strasbourg, until closure follows. The government referral is T/4023. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Répássy, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go. [[13.40]]
u2023-05-24-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill before us is to make the so-called amendment protocol to the Convention on the Protection of Individuals in the Mechanical Processing of Personal Data in Strasbourg, 28 January 1981, part of the Hungarian legal order in accordance with Article Q of the Fundamental Law. The Convention on the Protection of Personal Data, which was concluded in 1981 within the Council of Europe, was the first international treaty containing international legal obligations. The Convention was drawn up well before the emergence of the Internet and its potential for mass communication at this time, and has so far been confirmed by 51 countries, including the Member States of the European Union, four EFTA States, all Western Balkan countries, a number of neighbourhood policy partners such as Armenia, Georgia or Georgia, the Russian Federation, Turkey and many non-European countries in Africa, such as Senegal, Tunisia, Uruguay in Latin America. Several countries are in the process of applying and many countries have observer status. Since the change of regime, Hungary has paid great attention to the protection of personal data. This was done by the former Constitution and by the Fundamental Law (Article VI) of the Act. It also states, and even confirms, that the Constitutional Court has also provided for the right of an independent authority established by a cardinal law to verify the related requirements with regard to the protection of personal data. Hungary has also signed the Basic Convention for the purpose of strengthening this high level of protection, which was published in Annex VI of 1998. It was done by law. Although the scope of the Basic Convention, as its title highlights, essentially covers only machine-processing data, i.e. situations in which data processing is carried out by automated means at least in whole or in part, Hungary has also made a separate declaration to the Convention stating that the provisions of the Convention will also apply to files of personal data that are not processed by mechanical means, i.e. manual data processing. As such, in 1998 long before the modernisation of the Convention, Hungary extended the application of the Convention to those areas which were not originally covered and which will be carried out only by this Amending Protocol. The Council of Europe continued its efforts to further develop the Convention and to improve the protection of personal data, including the so-called Additional Protocol to the Convention, which aimed at the establishment of independent data protection authorities, which was set up by the Parliament in LIII of 2005. made me part of the Hungarian legal order by law. However, the Additional Protocol did not affect the substantive provisions of the Convention, but only allowed for effective control of data controllers. [[In the notary seat, Béla Mihálffy is replaced by László Földi.]] Dear House, As I have already mentioned, the basic agreement was born long before the Internet and its current possibilities for mass communication, but at the same time the passing of time and the associated technological developments have brought new challenges to the protection of personal data, which justified the revision of the Convention. Not only the Council of Europe, but the European Union has also established its own data protection regulations from 1996 onwards, which relied heavily on the Convention. In addition, the European Union has already implemented a very serious and ambitious reform of the protection of personal data in the previous decade, including the General Data Protection Regulation, the Directive on data processing in law enforcement activities and the so-called Institutional Data Protection Regulation for the institutions of the European Union. It should be noted that in this reform Hungary played a very active role in the negotiations, and in the implementation and transposition of them, the government presented several legislative proposals to Parliament in the preparation of the Ministry of Justice in 2018 and 2019. Like the European Union, the Council of Europe has seen the time to reform its data protection agreement itself. To this end, the preparation of the amending protocol before us began in March 2010. The text of the Amending Protocol was formally negotiated with the Commission and the Member States Parties to the Council of Europe Convention within the framework of the Data Protection and Ad hoc Committee set up by the ET Ministerial Committee. The Amending Protocol was finally finalised and adopted by the Council of Europe Ministerial Meeting in Helsingør on 18 May 2018. The text of the Amending Protocol could now be drawn up in conjunction with the legislation of the European Union due to the above mentioned EU reform efforts, which relies heavily on the novelties introduced by the European Union by the General Data Protection Regulation. At the same time, the Amending Protocol seeks to preserve the general principle-based logic of the Convention, thereby making the area's strict data protection obligations applicable to countries other than the European Union and the Council of Europe, tailored to their own legal systems, customs and traditions. In this regard, it can also be said that the Amending Protocol does not create obligations that are more stringent than the data protection rules already in force in Hungary and in the European Union, which are identical to the existing high level of protection. At the same time, the amendment of the Convention will allow European rules, if you like, to continue to spread as a good example around the world. Finally, but not least, it should also be pointed out that the Amending Protocol also allows not only States but also the European Union to accede to the Convention, so the European Union calls for the signing and ratification of the Protocol as soon as possible. Dear Parliament, The Government of Hungary already took a decision in autumn 2018 to agree with the text of the Amending Protocol and called on the Minister of Justice to sign it and to take the necessary measures to ratify it. The Amending Protocol was finally signed on 9 January 2019. Although the Amending Protocol would only enter into force if all the Parties to the Basic Convention have duly confirmed it, the Amending Protocol also allows it to enter into force at least partially earlier between the Parties which have already ratified it. This Protocol shall apply as soon as possible from October 2023 if, by that date or after that date, at least 38 Parties to the original Convention ratify the Protocol accordingly. Pending the submission of this bill, 24 parties have complied, so more than a dozen parties are required to participate actively in the partial entry into force. As provided for in Article VI of the Fundamental Law. Article 1 (3) also emphasises that everyone has the right to the protection of their personal data, which the practice of the Constitutional Court, taking into account the active aspect of that right, interprets as an informational self-determination right. In the light of the full application of the right of information self-determination and the dissemination of the European data protection model described above, I would like to ask you to support the adoption of the bill and thus the ratification of the protocol. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-24-54	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Katalin Cöbör, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2023-05-24-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The purpose of the bill before us is to implement the measures necessary for the ratification of the Protocol amending the Convention on the Protection of Individuals in the Mechanical Processing of Personal Data in Strasbourg on 28 January 1981. The Convention was opened for signature in 1981, long before the Internet and the present-day opportunities for mass communication were published, which has been confirmed by 51 countries. So the time has come for the Council of Europe to review and amend its rules on data protection in view of the challenges and opportunities of the modern age. [[13.50]] The Amending Protocol was finalised and adopted, as we have heard, on 18 May 2018. In 2018, the Government of Hungary already agreed to the signing of the Amending Protocol in the form of a Government Decision and called on the Minister of Justice to present the necessary proposal for ratification. The amendments targeted by the Amending Protocol are equivalent to the level of protection provided by the GDPR. In this context, Hungary's obligations with accession will not become more burdensome, they will be the same as the current data protection requirements. It is in the EU's interest not only to ensure a high level of protection already required in the EU, but also in the Member States of the Council of Europe. Dear fellow Members, In view of the need for modernisation, the Government's previous agreed government decision and the mutual interest outlined above at European level, I urge you, like the Fidesz faction, to support the proposal to publish the Amending Protocol. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-24-56	Thank you. I give the floor to István Hollik, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-05-24-57	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Given that the content of the bill has been fully informed, and as I see it, there is no debate in this matter either, i.e. this bill has the full agreement of the Parliament, I would therefore spare ourselves the opportunity to repeat what the Secretary of State has said. I would just like to point out that, like Fidesz, and I see that, like opposition parties, KDNP will support the bill to publish the protocol. Thank you very much.
u2023-05-24-58	Thank you very much. I'm looking at the monitor, not a single congressman has come forward to comment. The general debate is hereby closed. I'd like to ask the author if you'd like to comment.
u2023-05-24-59	No, thank you.
u2023-05-24-60	He doesn't want to comment. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the bill on legislative amendments to increase the competitiveness of the economy will follow until closure. Government referral T/4025. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr János Fónagy, Secretary of State, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2023-05-24-61	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/4025 on the amendment of the law to increase the competitiveness of the economy The aim of the bill is to contribute to increasing the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy by amending certain rules of civil law relating to the enforcement of claims and introducing a new civil law institution, building rights. Dear House, The regulatory backbone of the bill before you is to amend the civil code. The essential elements of the provisions relating to the pledge, the right to build, the third party fulfilling the right and the status of concessionaires and the separation of company law are as follows. In particular, the institution of the right to reallocate financial institutions has an increasingly important role to play in economic life, which has required more detailed and transparent regulation of the institution of the right to reallocate in this sphere as an effective collateral. In this respect, the amendment focused in particular on the revision of the rules on the enforcement of the right of Suretyment and the adaptation of the provisions concerned to the emerging needs of economic conditions. Among the procedural provisions of that amendment, I would like to highlight those which allow the right holder to initiate a procedure with the notary to justify the existence of the right to an existing right, which will make it easier to justify the quality of the rightholder. The legal institution to be introduced by the bill, building law is not unknown in the Hungarian legal system. It was an integral part of the classic Hungarian private law, which is already part of the 20th anniversary of the Austrian and German impact. It also appeared in Hungarian legislation in the first half of the century. The institution will be re-introduced in the light of the Hungarian legal history traditions and the successful legal solutions applied by the neighbouring countries, but at the same time in an integral manner in the Hungarian legal system. It is a barrier to economic growth that the financing of investments in the construction of various buildings, structures, works of art and technical equipment is difficult in the absence of adequate collateral. With the re-introduction of the building right into Hungarian law, the financing of such investments would be possible and could be facilitated. The right of construction provides for the possibility for the holder to establish or exploit a building on or below the property. The building rights may be established for a limited period of up to 50 years and must be registered in the real estate register, as is the case with ownership. It is an important restriction under the new legislation that a person who is considered to be a consumer cannot establish or obtain such a right on the property which he owns, either by setting up or by transferring. The bill also allows for the establishment of the right to build in respect of national property, while laying down specific rules for this circle. Dear House, In addition to the above, the bill amends the rules of the Civil Code concerning third parties fulfilling the rightholder and the status of concessions. The aim of the amendment is to clarify the current rules, thereby increasing predictability in the economy. In addition, the draft of the Ptk. introduce the legal institution of detachment among its separation and separation rules, which emerged from the economic operators' side as a regulatory need. The essence of this is that, during the separation, the legal person becomes the owner of the property separated from the property of the predecessor, which was set up in an independent company, which was not possible before. The harmonisation of the amendments to the Civil Code presented also justifies the amendment of a number of laws contained in the bill, such as the laws on levies, judicial enforcement or property registration. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to the above, the bill also includes the amendment of the laws governing the financial sector, which is due to the fulfilment of our obligation to harmonise EU legislation on the one hand and, on the other, to compliance with the needs of continuous development. As regards compulsory motor vehicle liability insurance, it should be pointed out that the bill introduces the concept of the use of a vehicle on the basis of judgments of the European Court of Justice rather than the concept of the operation of a motor vehicle, so that the insurance obligation will now extend to any use of the vehicle which is compatible with the purpose of serving as a means of transport or transport at the time of the accident, regardless of the characteristics of the vehicle and the terrain in which the vehicle is used and of whether it is in a position or in motion for a longer period of time. It will also simplify the administration of foreign accidents where the other party concerned has a contract with an insurance that has just failed. In this case, it will be possible not only to deal with matters in the country, but also to submit our claim for compensation at the domestic insurance guarantee fund at home. The bill also includes a change to the concept of a green card, which will allow the green card to be produced as an electronic certificate in the future, so we can essentially prove on our mobile phone that we have a green card, so we have insurance cover. [[14.00]] [[In the notary seat, Sándor Berki will be replaced by Bernadett Bakos.]] It is stated that if an individual's business is terminated as a result of the formation of a single-member limited liability company, that person's compulsory motor vehicle liability insurance as an operator will therefore not cease with interest. The bill also contains minor provisions ensuring harmonisation of laws, including amendments to the law on forms of collective investment and its managers, in order to clarify information rules or in relation to the company law consequences of resolution by CCPs. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, In the event of the adoption of a bill governing these important issues, it will make a significant contribution to economic growth and the strengthening of competitiveness, which is why I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament that the T/4025 act be adopted. To discuss the legislative proposal, please support the regulatory intention set out in the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-05-24-62	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Erik Bánki, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-05-24-63	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, T/4025 on legislative amendments on the table of this House to increase the competitiveness of the economy The main objectives of the proposed legislation are to transpose the European Parliament and Council Directives on insurance against liability in respect of motor vehicles and on the control of insurance obligations into domestic law and to establish legal provisions for the development of economic competitiveness, with particular reference to detailed rules in support of competitiveness and the recovery of public assets. Under the amendment of the law on compulsory motor vehicle liability insurance, as Mr Secretary of State has explained in detail, the concept of the use of motor vehicles will be introduced instead of the concept of motor vehicle operation, so the insurance obligation will now extend to any use of the vehicle. The amendment, as Mr Secretary of State has just mentioned, re-regulates the concept of a green card, which will allow the green card to be produced as an electronic certificate in addition to the paper base so far. In addition, it is stated that if an individual's business is terminated as a result of the formation of a single-member limited liability company, that person's compulsory motor vehicle liability insurance as an operator will therefore not cease with interest. The proposal includes amendments, inter alia, to the Capital Markets Act, which provides for the possibility for domestic capital market participants, in line with the practice of international markets, to allow institutional investors to enter into securities lending transactions for an indefinite period of time. With regard to the duration of securities loans, it becomes possible to supplement contract content with the entry into force of this bill because of the different options for institutional investors and clients that are not institutional investors. Dear House, According to the amendment of the National Property Act, property belonging to the national property would be subject to construction rights in a specific case and under specific conditions. When establishing the right of construction in respect of national property, the provisions of the National Property Act relating to the exploitation of national property shall apply, by the fact that the right of construction can only be established in the form of a vis-à-vis-vis-vis-à-vis others. The right to build will be subject to a proportional consideration in relation to the value of the property's turnover. The owner of the building right shall pay a one-off fee to the owner of the property at the time of the establishment of the right to build and a periodic fee during the existence of the right to build. In respect of the construction works established under the right of construction, the owner's obligations under the right of construction shall be borne by the right holder. The transfer and burden of building rights established in respect of national property shall be carried out only with the prior approval of the owner's right practitioner. In the exercise of the right of construction established in respect of the national property wholly owned by the State or the local government, the structure permanently combined with the property shall be the exclusive property of the owner of the property, subject to which the parties shall account for each other at the end of the contract. Ladies and Gentlemen, Based on the events of recent years, it can be seen that a completely new world economic era has begun. After the corona virus outbreak, the Russian-Ukrainian war broke out, creating an economic, food supply and energy crisis. Europe has not faced security and economic challenges such as this one in history at the same time, leading to a fall in the competitiveness of the continent, and the situation has only become more serious because of the failed Brussels measures. The ten sanctions packages adopted so far have not produced any results after more than a year, since they have not brought the Russian economy to its knees. In Europe, however, the price of natural gas was seven times higher than in the United States, while electricity was three times higher than in China. So, with sanctions, we first shot ourselves in the leg and then we shot ourselves in the lungs; and now the European economy is bleeding to death. From the point of view of competitiveness, it is important that Hungary has been able to become a key meeting point for Eastern and Western investors over the last decade. This is due to the fact that we have never discriminated against any investor on the basis of its nationality. This is particularly true in the area of the electric car industry, which is key to Europe's future economic success. War threatens the normal functioning of the world economy, which is why Hungary rightly argues in favour of peace as soon as possible, appreciating the pro-peace position of the Central Asian countries, which is a very important force against Western countries representing war rhetoric. At the beginning of the economic transformation in Hungary, the current government took over a rather poor state of bankruptcy economy and country in 2010. Since then, our country has been able to escape from each crisis, which shows the success of the Hungarian response to crises. The main compass for this was the national interest, because no external player can know better what is good for the Hungarian economy than Hungary itself. One of the foundations of this is the single-key tax system, the personal income tax system that we have created, and the work-based economy that we have created over the past ten years. Dear Parliament, The bill before us also includes amendments to the civil code in respect of the provisions relating to the pledge, the right to mortgage, the right to build as a right to property, the legal status of the rightholder, the performing third party and the legal status of the concession, as well as the separation as a special form of division. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is important to note that, despite the prolonged war and sanctions in Brussels, the Hungarian economy will avoid recession, and this year the Hungarian economy will continue to grow, and next year it will be able to return to a high growth path supported by the European Commission and the latest forecasts of the International Monetary Fund. The economic foundations are strong, the number of people employed continues to exceed 4.7 million, and unemployment levels are one of the lowest across the European Union. The level of the investment rate and the export performance of the Hungarian economy have outstanding numbers. It can therefore be said that the civilian government will continue to improve the balance indicators in an international environment of danger, as well as guaranteeing the country's security, protecting families, pensions, jobs and maintaining the reduction of the costs. To sum up, therefore, the bill before us contains forward-looking provisions to increase the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy, so I would like to ask my fellow Members with respect to your support for the adoption of this bill, like the Fidesz faction. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-05-24-64	Thank you, Congressman. I give you the floor, Gy. Erzsébet Németh, lead speaker of the DK Group. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-24-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, we have a bill, parts of which in a normal country where social and institutional control functions reliably over the government, the division of power is guaranteed by laws, and the actors of the state do not play it with creative interpretation of law, there could be support for parts of this bill, but not in today's Hungary. [[14.10]] The salad law will change a number of laws. One of these serves to transpose the EU directives and Council directives on insurance and insurance insurance into Hungarian law. I believe that these are important directives and obligations which will make it easier for the Secretary of State to say that if someone is in a position to be injured by another driver or in any other way in his vehicle, he will be able to benefit from compensation. I think this is an important part of the bill. An important part of the amendment to the rules of the compensation fund is, for example, the fact that the fund established and financed by the insurance companies established in Hungary reimburses the damage caused by the victims of the damage suffered by the insurance company in Hungary who has been subject to bankruptcy or winding-up proceedings by the Member States, and the damage caused to those victims of other residences who have been subject to winding-up proceedings against the insurance company of the injured party established in Hungary. Mr Secretary of State has also spoken about it and I consider it a very important initiative that, if we travel abroad, it will be easier to travel abroad because the green card can be produced not only as a paper but also as a clear electronic certificate. In relation to payment service providers, the bill also contains a number of proposals that can be considered and, once again, in other circumstances even be supported, but at the moment this salad law does not allow us to say yes to these important legislative proposals or legislative amendments. Payment service providers already have a legal obligation to have transaction monitoring mechanisms that allow them to detect unauthorised or fraudulent payment transactions. It is also necessary to establish a central abuse screening system to detect abuse patterns through network analysis in order to identify them. Here I would like to draw the attention of this House and the Government to the fact that we are increasingly hearing calls from various banking players very rightly calling to the attention of the public that there are bank frauds and that there is a rise in tricky bank frauds who are increasingly taking away money from citizens and companies in a more sophisticated way. Let me mention a case without the name of the bank. I also dare say this calmly, because it is not possible to identify this bank as a large Hungarian-owned bank, where in recent months, weeks there have been large amounts of fraud that could harm individuals. Quite simply, despite the fact that the account holder does not make a mistake, these accounts are hacked in a way that these bank fraudsters will raise the next day after receiving a larger amount of money. I think that the Hungarian government must do everything in its power, but the banks must also do everything in their power to filter them out, and in cases where the client does not fail, the bank must compensate these people. The parts of the bill I've mentioned so far would even be eligible, as I said, if you didn't continue the bad practice that beginner chefs do, that whatever you find in the fridge will be quickly cooked together. I think it would be time for these legislative proposals, the so-called salad laws, to be taken separately by the government in some form and brought to this House, because it would be quite simply fairer for everyone. Dear House, The most important part of the bill is the amendment of the civil code, which is intended to bring the institution of the building right into Hungarian law again. The simplistic point of this is that a legal person may acquire a right to build for a maximum of 50 years in an area which is not in his possession. Therefore, natural persons are not yet covered by the legislation. A further limitation is that a building right may be established for a maximum period of 35 years in the territory of the national property. At the same time, it is important to point out that construction law is a real right, i.e. marketable, mortgage-bearing and transferable, so it can in principle contribute to boosting the economy and increasing competitiveness. This new legal institution exists in several European countries, but there and now I very much ask that my fellow Members from Fidesz and KDNP pay attention to the possibility of misuse of the law with appropriate guarantees. According to the justification of the bill, for example, the government has not spoken about it today, and although I have been paying close attention to it, neither Mr. State Secretary nor Erik Bánki, who is before me, who I do not see in this room, wants to support the implementation of solar power plants, but it will also be useful for investments in concessions. The Democratic Coalition believes that mass abuse will be expected if the legislation enters into force. For those who have already been authorised to install solar panels, this makes this permit marketable and sellable as a building right, i.e. you want to make the solar battery business even more NER-compatible. Well, dear fellow Members, this is obviously where the dog is buried, and that is why, by the way, this proposal may be put together with other proposals that the entire opposition can support in a salad law, because last autumn, at the brutal energy price rise, you stopped the possibility of setting up solar panels and solar parks. Even though thousands of families wanted to replace their brutal energy bills with solar cells, you made it impossible. But, like so many times, there is dust in the machine, and a number of Fidesz-related businesses have been included in the ban, who already had these permits. And now, then, after a year, when it turns out to you that stuck permits and solar panels offer a profitable opportunity, they're already making laws to harvest the market for the benefit of legal entities. People, families, will still have no opportunity to replace their brutal energy bill. We have heard from Erik Bánki that the country will also overcome the energy crisis by protecting the reduction of the rent, but the Democratic Coalition believes that it is not a reduction in the cost of gas when the gas bill increases seven times the amount of the next 50 percent of the families using energy and the electricity bill is doubled at least. Dear House, On this basis, the Democratic Coalition cannot support this bill. And once again, I would like to draw the attention of the government to the fact that it would be fairer to bring these proposals in the form of separate legislative proposals, because I think that, in vain, they try to hide them in a large salad package, important bill proposals for the power and oligarch machine that serve you, fortunately, the opposition parties, but I also think the Hungarian population will spot exactly what you are trying to do. Thank you for listening.
u2023-05-24-66	Thank you very much. I give the floor to István Hollik, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-05-24-67	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I think it is quite clear that the bill before us, although indeed it amends several laws, is being put together as a tyre. One of these tires was also mentioned by the Secretary of State for the harmonisation of EU legislation, and the other is that each amendment, which is part of this proposal, was made in order to promote economic competitiveness. So this is the tire. The reason I wouldn't call it a salad law is because there's a clear purpose to the bill. I was sad to hear that, Gy. Erzsébet Németh's argument. I saw him say that this bill would actually be eligible, in Hungarian, there is no professional argument to say no to this bill, but there are also texts from Brussels that are already well-known about the lack of the rule of law. I think it is difficult to hold a professional debate if their starting point is that they cannot support a professional bill because there is no rule of law in Hungary, no social control and the principle of power-sharing does not apply in Hungary. [[14.20]] So when the rule of law is clear in Hungary and people choose and decide every four years, and then say that you cannot support a professional bill because all of this is missing in Hungary, I think that this is difficult to accept as a basis for discussion. The details of the bill have also been presented here by my fellow Member Erik Bánki, who has said one thing little, and I would like to talk about it, this is the amendments to the proposal concerning the civil code, and by the way, this is the Gy. Erzsébet Németh also raised questions, I think that it may be partly an answer. On the one hand, the amendment concerning the Ptk. contains a review of the institution of the pledge, more specifically the institution of the lien. This was because it was necessary to modify the basic institution of the collateral system, the pledge regulation, because, in the absence of the relevant mandatory element of the mortgage contract for the establishment of the mortgage right, the extent of the liability with pawn instruments could not be established from the recorded data, and this deficiency undoubtedly complicates the lending practice that fosters economic life. In particular, the institution of the right to mortgage lending plays an increasingly important role in the economic life of the financial institutions' refinancing activities. It has therefore become necessary to regulate the institution's right of right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to The other thing I wanted to talk to you about is the introduction of building rights. Here the amendment is justified by the fact that economic growth and, as I have said, this bill is one of the obstacles to economic growth that, in the absence of adequate collateral, it is difficult to finance investments in the creation of different buildings, structures and works of art. We know that the real estate development profession uses loans fairly widely, in general, and even in the vast majority, real estate is not developed from equity but from loans, and the problem is that no credit institution accepts it as a mortgage right or as a credit cover that can be charged with such a right. On the one hand, because, in relation to the value of the investment planned to be financed, the untapped value of the existing and of the underlying assets is generally insufficient to cover and, on the other hand, the contractor wishing to borrow does not in most cases have adequate collateral to meet the financing needs of the investment. Indeed, solar panels are a typical and specific example, but not in the way they say Gy. Mrs Erzsébet Németh said that this is a typical and concrete, very significant obstacle to the investments in solar power plants, for which the value of the investment will not only be given by the installation or installation of the facility, but also by the power plant permit linked to the land and the long-term transfer guarantee. The credit institution's source insurance of the 6 thousand megawatt capacity as set out in the climate and nature conservation action plan, the solar power plant investment worth 1500 billion HUF in the order of magnitude, could be implemented through the introduction of the building right, as it will be supplemented by a marketable and thus burdensome right related to the property, which can be registered in the real estate register and can serve as a basis for mortgage law. Therefore, the re-introduction of the building right into Hungarian law could be financed or facilitated by such investments. So this means that we think that precisely in order to ensure that Hungary's energy independence, the separation from Russian gas, can be achieved in the medium to long term, it must help to invest in solar power plants, and the introduction of building rights can greatly help to realise these investments in solar power plants, because most of them, as in general all real estate development, can be achieved through credit. I wrote that down for myself, and I'm hoping it's Gy. Erzsébet Németh did the same, claiming that there would be mass abuse here. Please, for these words, you will take responsibility. To me, it's in my memory that you said with the same conviction that the amendment to the Labour Code will result in hundreds of thousands of extra jobs being forced into it, and hundreds of thousands of people will not get paid for this extra work. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: And so it is.]] The thing is, it was a huge lie on your part. He was alarmed because their current political interests dictated this, but then these sentences, two weeks after the amendment of the Code of Work, were forgotten and put away, that was no longer the case. So I think that these words should be put to everyone's attention, and we will see how the right to build will work in practice, and if you are not right, then you should be kind enough to stand up for your words. I think that, overall, the return of the right to build will help to strengthen the competitiveness of the economy, keep economic growth, because we can really see that, in terms of the Hungarian economy, thank God, we can talk about a complex economy. In the case of economic complexity, as I said here in the previous debate, Hungary, the Hungarian economy is in the ninth place, so thank God, we did not develop the Hungarian economy in such a way that it is limited to one industry, it is not standing on one foot, it is standing on many feet. In the neighbouring countries, we have seen economic development strategies that target an industry, they have put everything on the same page, but if that industry is in a difficult situation, it can also drag the economy of the entire country down with it. The Hungarian economy is not like this, it stands on many feet, but if that is the case, there is only one thing that can help economic growth and the stability of the economy if we strengthen competitiveness. I believe that these measures, which are included in this proposal, help in this very way and guarantee that the Hungarian economy remains stable, and therefore, of course, the KDNP supports this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-24-68	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Dániel Z. Carpathian, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-05-24-69	Mr President, Dear House, I don't agree with you very much, Gy. With all the points of Erzsébet Németh's criticism, but I would like to tell István Hollik, who spoke before me, that we are still in Parliament, so allow someone to worry about the future effects of legislation. [[István Hollik: Maybe that's why I said he'd take responsibility.]] I'm sure everyone's willing to take his word for it, and I'm used to it. In relation to the Labour Code, my concerns were said then, and I am telling you now that during a certain period, the number of accidents at work has increased from 17 thousand to 23 thousand in Hungary, and I maintain the claim that average and typical working conditions have deteriorated in the case of physical workers, and that vulnerability continues to increase in proportion to the rise in the number of migrant workers in certain parts of the country. So let's not try to make it look like nothing from the concerns we had at the time was formed at the level of statistics. Fortunately, there were also concerns that must have been exaggeration, and we should be happy for the Hungarian workers that everything has not become a reality, but we must see that the situation of Hungarian workers has deteriorated in certain circumstances, and especially in terms of their pay. I thought it important to note this footnote because no one should follow an opposition representative if he expressed concerns about the future effects of a regulation. On the issue of wages, it is said that for the seventh month, real wages in Hungary are falling, and obviously not for us, not for Members in the House, but for those in a typical situation of life. [[14.30]] I do not think that we can count the number of salad laws we are debating on the opposite side of the horseshoe, but I am quite certain that the situation of the single Member is much easier than, say, in the 2010-2014 cycle, when the meeting ended in the morning, and the next one continued at 8 a.m. the next morning. Now we have B- and C-weeks, just like in the school schedule. So I think that there is no legislative pressure or external need to press so many proposals into a large package, because you are pushing the opposition into a position. I'm sure most of them will abstain. Obviously, there will also be those who vote 'no' to this proposal. I found some really good things in it, so I found people that I'd support right away, and I found people in them where, well, if I had hair, they'd be on fire. I would like to highlight two of these before I get to building law. One is the mention of the state background and regulation of housing savings, LTP. This is a very short footnote in the proposal, and in fact, even if it is not a legal theory, because it regulates a procedural issue, but I do not understand that if at least at some point the legislator is dealing with house savings, then why is it not responding to my suggestion which I have been saying for years. And not with a provocative edge, I'm just interested in the fact that you have removed the state leg of pre-emption for housing purposes, it was a few thousand forints a year, so it was not so harsh, we even agreed that there was plenty of criticism and criticism in the operating model of the companies that sold it; but the fact is that you have made a promise to put something on the table for this; so that a typical young Hungarian youth in a life situation can pre-empt for housing purposes in a state-supported way, but this is also true for condos in a completely simple boiler change. You haven't put this alternative model on the table since. Satisfaction in the homeland is a principle. This is also a prerequisite for economic growth. The basic condition of this would be the support of the active, so that anyone who goes forward with his talent and diligence, carries out house savings, carries out pension savings, has health insurance, has health insurance, we support these countrymen. Compared to this, the amount of such tax refunds and subsidies that can be collected annually has typically been frozen for ten years, which do not follow inflation, and the state aid for house savings has also been abolished. So, overall, we see that they are reducing the support of the active ones. The other issue, Mr Secretary of State, which is much more detailed here in the proposal, is the subject of such fine-tuning amendments to implementation. Here, too, we would like to draw a concrete position from you on the fact that you are now willing to hold a shield to those in distress in connection with over decades of abuse of the implementation system. I maintain my claim that such 33-50 percent bans on executives often need to protect those from whom the minimum wage or the small pension is taken on the basis of dubious claims. So we have to set a limit below which we say that you can't take the income for life support with the executioner's ban. It's gotta be different than a pension. It's gotta be different than a minimum wage. I am a partner for families with multiple children to have a higher amount, because it is necessary to prioritize the most important social activity that a family has in this regard, but it is important to see that 50 percent of a small pensioner's monthly income can now actually be taken away without control, and that this creates unworthy living situations. You tried to propose a solution to this, it would have been a family bankruptcy, but you didn't do it on the basis of the Polish model, which, by the way, was a good pattern, so the T and S indicator; in Poland, the customer went in, and they pushed such a simulated payment to him, that if the exchange rate goes away and everything breaks down, you will face this. This has not happened in Hungary; and the Hungarian family bankruptcy system has given a few hundred of our countrymen some kind of illusions about the solution, so very, very few have entered into it, it would not be too late to fine-tune it, but it would be even better to tidy up the system of enforcement bans. I had to say these two proposals on behalf of the Jobbik-Conservatives, because they are the subject of the proposal, but not with the same weight and not in the direction of the solution that we have wanted for many years. With regard to the right to build, let us state once again that we are basically talking about legal persons. Of course, the fantasy is starting, because it is undoubtedly a transferable right, and when you see 50 years of regulation in the proposal in the case of 35 or 50 years, you think big. Many people here think of different long-term projects that have started in recent years and may not be fully successful. At the same time, it was not an unknown model in Europe, but after Trianon, there were various attempts to do so. I wouldn't turn that down out of the gut. So what I'm saying is, if we use this right, it could be good. If it is used by various investors to save themselves the pre-financing, because they can use a pledge to put a consideration on the table that does not require him to pre-finance it, then I say that we should think about it, because we can't aim at helping already capital-powered billion-dollar businesses in this form by the legislator, and by the way, the Hungarian small and medium-sized ones shouldn't be able to kick the ball. So I see that this regulation is not yet clear in this regard. You have to answer those questions. The subject of solar energy is at least as complicated. I would be very sad, Mr. Secretary, that if this salad really were to be a salad, because it was a very difficult subject in this way that they wanted to hide and hide. I hope not. In order to be clear on this issue, however, we must answer these points. Allow me one more half sentence, not abusing the framework of the general debate. A number of people have said that basically promoting economic growth would be the objective of the whole package. There are many times mention of GDP figures that are far from misleading, Mr. Secretary of State. The last thing that Péter Róna talked about was that GDP data contained the Royalty, the interest rate, the dividend that the multinational companies, which, by the way, accumulate a very large profit, would take out of the country without actually generating any benefits, social benefits for Hungary. According to their investigations, this could amount to up to 2.5-3 percent of GDP; the amount these multinational networks, after they have generated their profits, will be debauched from the country. No one wants to create an anti-multi-national atmosphere, but we just want the same life chances for a Hungarian company on the Hungarian market and also for a foreign company network coming in here, and obviously I am closer to the regulation that does not help the more capitalist in an extra way. I'd rather help the little ones in a prominent and extra way. But what we see is that if we look at the composition of GDP and the amounts exported, calculated, measured in percentage of GDP, then the picture is not so bright at all. If we look at the overall impact of this proposal, and let us say that this can also help a battery plant, let us not go gutting it; because if you brought in a battery factory regulation, which, say, is at least five kilometers away from a residential area, only using a Hungarian workforce, on a reasonable wage level, and we would like to put down a few of these guarantees, I think it would be possible to have a productive debate about it, even if I maintain that Hungary is destined for a higher shelf on the basis of its talent. So it wouldn't be the battery factory that's closer to me, but the fact that, let's say, the engines or the software needed for them will be produced in Hungary, and the various royalties and sources of revenue will be realized after that, and not only in Estonia, there should be a digital revolution, but also in Hungary. So our position is a little different, since this line, typically with primary school education, is organized by the 12-hour working crowds and migrant workers, and I do not think that the future of Hungary can be built on this. But we also need to see that if this proposal helps them, it might be much better to digitize and help the Hungarians. Make sure you think about this. We will be able to establish a meaningful position on the whole package if the issues I have raised are clarified. Thank you for your attention.
u2023-05-24-70	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to István Apáti, the lead speaker of the group of our country. Here you go.
u2023-05-24-71	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, There is quite a lot to talk about in this bill. I would like to begin with the strong statement that it is probably, if not for you personally, at least in the vast majority of cases, that the aim of the governing majority is to not accept these proposals either to the left or the opposition to the right, as there are various proposals wrapped in the mixed nature, the salad, which are generally not acceptable to opposition parties, opposition representatives, which you are very well aware of. [[14.40]] So it's not about consensus, it's about only your representatives accepting it. I think it's a bad direction, it's been standard practice for about 13 years, but it'd be nice to turn back on this road on the path of political generosity. As far as the house savings note footnote proposal is concerned, this area really deserves much more, since, in particular, in connection with the property price explosion of the last two years, it is clear that if the state does not reach under the arm of young people in relation to home creation, apart from those extremely narrow circles with a family background or inherently serious wealth, it will be an unattainable dream for most young people not only to acquire the ownership of a family house, but also to buy a smaller apartment. Given today's national net average incomes, we see that no one in life will ever be able to manage an apartment, but he has no chance of doing so even if he has a much higher salary than the average net income. It is no coincidence that the vast majority of young people do not imagine their future in Hungary, and now this statement is not only true of the northeastern counties or certain regions of the South-Transdanubian region, but also of the more developed regions of the country. The total drastic withdrawal of State aid from the housing savings banks was probably partly unthinkable, as they were a rather good construction, successful products, especially in view of the current situation on the real estate market. And I am not only talking about the purchase price for ready-made apartments or houses, but also, where appropriate, about the costs of construction or major renovation, Minister of State, because we find among the savings banks of housing that, even in the fourth quarter of last year, were able to provide loans with interest rates that were much lower than 5 per cent on contracts, with a five-year term, a predictable, fixed instalment, and with interest rates below 10 per cent that can also be calculated, never rising, with a further loan, plus loan that should be spared and valued in the current market. In addition, according to the feedback, our country Movement sees that these products do not shout out truly work reliably. Thus, the loans taken from the housing savings banks, the part we know of, at least, did not increase its repayments over the past period. So for the time being, consumers have not run into it, and we hope that this is not just our experience, but rather a more general experience at the usual dead end that, due to some small-letter provision, either to the change in the central bank base rate or to other factors, the instalment will jump unexpectedly. In many forint-based loans, we see that, as the currency-based loans were previously lost due to the unfortunately valid and realized exchange rate risk, some of the HUF-based loans have a similar process due to the rise in the central bank base rate. As long as interest-stop measures continue, it may be possible to stop this for some time or time or hour, to stop it, but obviously it cannot be maintained until the end of time. However, these grants and additional loans related to the use of savings provided by the housing savings banks do indeed have a predictable repayment. Before I move to the negotiation of the right to build, which indeed contains more than one threat or mine, I would like to note some important points in connection with compulsory car liability insurance. One is that general public experience, Mr Secretary of State, is that in many cases the administration is slow, especially if foreign damages occur or damage occurred abroad and the insurance company is still bankrupt, it is always quite slow. Thus, we are not always able to make use of the achievements of the modern world, the benefits of online administration and electronic administration. However, also in the context of domestic damages and damages, so if both are Hungarian-based or Hungarian permanent residents, you can hear about long months of administration and damages payments. Not to mention that the administration of compulsory car liability insurance is extremely prolonged, if, let's say, not only the damage to property in the vehicle, but also some kind of damage charge, for example, some other property or non-material damage to health, psychological or psychological damage. For example, if a pregnant woman is affected by an accident that causes no physical serious consequences to her God, but is subject to a longer period of hospital surveillance, and this is just a simple example of many, so in such cases the administration of such accidents is extremely prolonged and, where appropriate, subject to rather unworthy marketcofa-like bargaining. Perhaps it would be worth pressing the otherwise highly capitalised insurance companies here for a more civilized attitude. Just as it would otherwise be worth looking at the scope of professional liability insurance, especially in the case of activities such as accounting, planning, construction construction insurance, so that insurers are not looking for an excuse, but for a solution, and it is not usually the case that they explain why they do not have a liability and why they do not have to pay. As perhaps in this context, in relation to kgfb, one of the areas of Hungarian insurance law that I think has been unsolved for a long time should be considered, and this is the case of wildlife damage, when even in cars, lorries and transport vehicles wild animals cause various, if any, extremely high amounts of damage. There is a Hungarian pointing, everyone shifts the responsibility of not saying bad things between the walls of the House, and there is never a problem in this area. The hunting company points at the owner of the vehicle, the owner of the vehicle points back and forth at the hunting company, the insurance company points back and forth. The hunting company flees in the event that it has marked the area, and they say that they have done everything they can, even though it is far from the line of duty. It might be worth considering that we would include this circle in a compulsory insurance circle, an additional surcharge, a compulsory supplementary insurance, because, at the moment, I am aware that casco insurances may provide cover for this, but for which only a very limited number of Hungarian motor vehicle owners have a financial opportunity and there are insurance companies that do not include it in the compulsory provision, even in case of cascos, they treat such damage events as a very high additional insurance. So perhaps it would be worth mentioning again in the scope of compulsory car liability insurance, the case of wildlife damage against a special affordable tariff, because this is a very common daily damage event, the legal regulation of which is still not reassuring. Last but not least, here is the issue of building law. There may even be a question as to why this can only be established for a longer fixed period of time. What's to rule out, Mr. Secretary, the establishment of a building right for an indefinite period of time? Or what is the situation in specific cases which may be more frequent than private properties, but are not excluded in the case of property owned by legal persons, when, let us say, there was no real estate merger or no real estate listing, where appropriate? So the real estate registration map doesn't include a building or a building, but the ownership sheet contains an unbuilt area name... [[Dr. János Fónagy: Not indicated!]] It's not listed, but both versions are possible. So there is an unbuilt area on the property sheet, and otherwise there is nothing on the map, or an unbuilt area on the property sheet, but the outlines of the building are on the map, but there is a name for the unbuilt area, but, if appropriate, there is a building of such size on the real estate register map if at least the map shows that there are already obstacles to further installation according to the local construction regulations. The fact is, Mr Secretary of State, I said this in yesterday's debate, that the construction law that is being prepared should be very carefully looked at in the case of private property, as in the case of property owned by legal persons, and, let us say, the display of buildings that have been in existence for more than ten years, the procedure for authorising use and/or survival until the extremes, that is what I always say, that should be simplified to the extremes. [[14.50]] Everyone, hold on, such an administration may take between 12 and 24 months, because there are completely meaningless many authorities to look for, many of which could be completely omitted. They themselves would be happy if they didn't have to contribute. In the case of the establishment of a building right, this is quite cacaphantic, as I am talking about the buildings that have been in existence for more than ten years, it is not so rare that it is clear that there is a building with a construction permit, which is in place there, but that this is officially from the title "unbuilt area" such as, let's say, housing, economic building, whatever name it changes, it has to go through an amazing process. The camel passes through the needle's eye faster than this individual administration can, especially if there are legal persons involved. This essentially affects either the subject of registration of building rights or the extent of the credit that can be granted, or the related credit coverage. Very complicated life situations can come up in seconds. Indeed, Mr Secretary of State, if your political and economic leadership came up with or suggested that this old legal institution should now be brought back into Hungarian law to create solar panels and battery factories or other plants, and if the state is not able to provide non-refundable and/or reimbursable subsidies for everything, and if there were problems with lending and loan financing, then this would make the situation easier for companies that are already capitalised and in a large economic dominant position, this is rather sad. Once again, we do not see opportunities being spread out, the principle of living and letting live would be enforced, even in the area of businesses, and they would strengthen smaller or small- and medium-sized enterprises, but we see again that a narrow circle is converging in opportunities, choosing better opportunities, the rest will either survive or not; either somehow or not. In general, it is not or should not prevail in the current economic environment. And the fact that the power of the battery companies is an economic evolutionary dead end is not a question for our country Movement. From 2035 onwards, the new vehicles can be only and exclusively electric, and such things can be said, but in any high amount I bet that this 2035 deadline will be amended even more often, and I may be preparing for my 100th birthday in 2078 if I am lucky, even if this is not binding, because this is even far from the realities of Western Europe, and it is definitely a light-years away from Eastern Europeans and Hungarian realities. In addition to the fact that it would be worth discussing in a calm way, with a pulse of 120/80 and 72, which, in any case, is the environment's best burden in terms of the entire life cycle of an exclusively electric motor vehicle or a conventional petrol vehicle. In our opinion, it's electric. And which one has a higher level of recyclability: it is clear that the traditional, because it is 90 percent, is only 45-50 percent for an electrician. And if we look at what parts of an electric motor vehicle, what materials we need, and how much it weighs on the environment, then it turns out that the great environmental aspects immediately failed. By the way, the other main direction in building solar parks is to help those who least need it and who do not deal with it, the household-sized solar power plants, which families would desperately need because of increased gas and electricity prices, to implement energy-independent and secure solar power plants on their own or on credit, and it is hard to find words for that. Thank you very much. [[István Szabadi applauds.]]
u2023-05-24-72	Thank you very much. We've reached the end of the keynote speech. I give you a normal comment on the word Gy. Erzsébet Németh. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2023-05-24-73	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I am sorry that Congressman Hollik passed away during the debate, obviously because of other activities relating to an urgent public task. However, I think that, although this may not be the case in this new Fidesz Parliament, that when one is involved in the debate on a bill, it is appropriate to listen to the rapporteur, Mr State Secretary, and to listen to our fellow Members, and, in the end, obviously, the closing word from the government. But obviously we didn't go to the same school with Congressman Hollik, and it's not just my age. No, but aside from the joke, because I do not want to humor these few minutes, which I have asked for: Mr Hollik here said the same government slogans and government victory report about Hungary's good situation, and he does not really understand what the opposition is, namely, the problem of the Democratic Coalition, when it is clear from a bill that there is indeed a cause for mass abuse. Thank you very much for telling Daniel Z. Carpathian about the situation that has arisen since then regarding the amendment of the Code of Work. I think that if it does not prove that there has been mass abuse here, then I will obviously say the same in a next comment in a few years' time, but unfortunately, the experience so far is that when Fidesz is preparing for such actions, it always has at least two consequences. One is to make it easier for economic circles close to them to get rich, and the other is to put a number of thousands, tens of thousands or even millions of people in difficult situations in Hungary at the same time. Mr Hollik spoke of the good economic situation in Hungary compared to the neighbouring countries. Compared to this, if we look at the figures of the European Union, it is only inflation in which Hungary performs well, as we now have the highest inflation rate in the fifth month of this year, and if we look at the average of the European Union, then inflation in Hungary is almost three times the EU average, and in all the neighbouring countries that István Hollik referred to as negative, how bad the economy is there, inflation is lower everywhere. On the other hand, what is happening in Hungary? Now, in a year, real earnings have dropped by 7 percent. According to recent KSH data, the average earnings decreased by 7 percent in one year and decreased by 20 percent in February alone. Wages and pensions are also the lowest in Hungary, and there is nothing the government will do to start a catch-up. So I am very sorry that Congressman Hollik has not heard these words, but I trust that the Fidesz Members of the Group here will tell him. And I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply to the problems raised on behalf of DK. It would be good to have a reassuring answer that not only the economic powers of the NER will be facilitated by the creation of solar panels and solar panels; obviously, this is not a way for families, but that, for families, to replace the brutal energy bills for Hungarians, we need to find an environmentally friendly, climate protection solution, Commissioner, Secretary of State. So I'd like you to say a few sentences about that in the closet. And I would like to reiterate at the end: there are some elements of this bill that opposition representatives could support in a normal rule of law; well, precisely because of the right to build and the related points, this bill cannot be supported. Thank you so much for listening.
u2023-05-24-74	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Erik Bánki of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-05-24-75	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member, István Hollik, does not need me to defend his position in any way, because the reasoning system he put forward behind the support of the bill was very clear and clear. Congresswoman complained that she had left the Chamber; it is not worth much more, Madam Congresswoman, if she is in the Chamber, but keeps calling. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh intervenes.]] You have no idea what your fellow Members are talking about during the debate, so there is no meaningful difference between the two. [[15.00]] The fact that the Hungarian economy is performing well is not a question, my fellow Member. This is not a question, because it is the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund that have confirmed in recent weeks that the economic growth planned for this year is not only realistic, so that there will be economic growth in Hungary, even though you have talked about the recession in the Hungarian economy last year, but have also confirmed the forecast and the expectation that economic growth is expected to be around 4 percent or above next year. So I think, in light of that, we should not be ashamed. You are talking about catching up on wages, my fellow Member. If you've looked at the last few years, it's practically the fifth year when there's a rise of over 10 percent. Each year we were able to talk about real wage growth well above inflation in Hungary, and in the meantime we have returned what you have taken away from Hungarian society, my fellow Member. We gave the pensioners back the 13th month's pension you took from them; and we will return to the teachers in an unprecedented wage increase, among other things, the 13th month's salary that was also taken from them. It is not my fault that your fellow Members are lobbying in the European Parliament so that Hungary cannot receive the European Union funds that are otherwise due to it, from which we would like to make the teacher's wage increase in the coming years, which I think we can all be proud of and be proud to support. And the fact that some of the amendments to the bill may be a cause for mass abuse, I would just like to say that this has not been the case before. In fact, if you look at the Hungarian solar installations, the total power output of photovoltaic power plants in Hungary is already reaching 4000 megawatts, which I think we can again be proud of. Hungary's commitment was 6000 megawatts by 2030, so we will achieve this well ahead of time, and if we compare the proportions of renewables that are now available, available and producing to the size of the country, to the amount of energy used, I think that we are also doing very well at European Union level in this respect. And if we look at the size of a power plant between 0,5 megawatts and 0,5 and 1 megawatts implemented by small investors, I think that we can also be proud of the fact that a lot of Hungarian small businesses were able to participate in this program, and they were able to create small power plants with the help of the Hungarian government, thanks to the creation of the KÁT system that still operates and serve the welfare of these families. So there's nothing to be ashamed of. So I think that the Hungarian government has done very well in this area, too, in recent years. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-24-76	Thank you very much. I give you the floor for a two-minute comment, Gy. Erzsébet Németh.
u2023-05-24-77	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Well, I would like to say to Mr Bánki that you have twice granted 13 months' pensions to pensioners, the governments before 2010 and the left-wing governments I say once again to understand the Member: they have given 13 months' pensions seven times. So I wouldn't be so proud of that in your case or your position. I simply refuse to say that anyone here is lobbying so that no source can come to Hungary. Let's go to Hungary! Fidesz and his government, who specialize in corruption and theft, should not come to Hungary! [[Erik Bánki and Csaba Nagy intervene several times.]] By the way, the President of the Republic, elected by you, Katalin Novak, if I remember correctly, may not have erased this from his interview or his appearance, but if so, the Member may also be able to proceed in this matter to inform the Hungarian public about the actions of the President of the Republic. So Katalin Novak said that there is no EU funding linked to a teacher's wage increase. Yes, from Hungarian budgetary sources, this could be resolved. I think so, and I suggest you coordinate this with the President of the Republic. By the way, what is being done against teachers as a wage increase is quite simply unacceptable, and it is unthinkable that you think so about Hungarian education. Obviously, you're not a teacher, obviously you have fewer friends who work as a teacher today. I'm lucky to have a relatively close relationship with them. It's quite simply a shame what you're doing. I also ask Congressman Hollik himself in the Legislative Committee, but the Fidesz individual Members, whether the citizens will not come to you? Won't the teachers go there? Aren't pensioners going there? And you're not gonna tell me that it's finally good to have normal living conditions? Well, that's what you should answer, Congressman. Thank you very much.
u2023-05-24-78	Thank you. No further comments were received. [[For signal:]] I'm sorry. Erik Bánki applied for a two-minute comment. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-05-24-79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is not surprising that she is misinterpreting not only my words, but also the words of the President of the Republic. As an elected Member of Parliament, you should know precisely that the Hungarian Government was on the agenda for its formal discussions with the European Commission, and that the Hungarian fund-use plan adopted by the European Commission is part of the teacher's wage increase, my honourable fellow Member. You know that, but you're obviously wrong, because your political interests want you to talk about the truth, not the truth, but the version of truth that you understand, which in this case is nothing more than a lie. So I would like to say that you can hear and understand: in the formal negotiations, in the formal negotiations between the government and the European Commission, an agreement on the use of EU funds was part of the agreement that a large part of this resource would meet the need for a teacher's wage increase. It is simply not true, Congresswoman, what you are saying, but it is not surprising, and it is not the first time that this is happening in the Hungarian Parliament. The fact that you, your MEPs and not only DK, but also the MEPs of the entire opposition, are lobbying the European Parliament and the European Commission not to ensure that Hungary does not receive the legitimate resources it deserves is obviously a lie, because that is what they are doing! You're even proud of that. They proudly undertake in the interview that you are working to prevent Hungary from getting it! And the Hungarian Government would not have this, my honourable fellow Member. Not the Hungarian government, but the teachers get it, Hungarian businesses get it, Hungarian municipalities get it. There would be a source of precisely those improvements, and eventually for Hungarian people, as it would also bring about a number of infrastructural developments, such as the modernisation of the drinking water network, such as the modernisation of the energy network, which would make life easier, better and simpler for all of us Hungarians. So I ask you to stop this and support Hungary on the European stage. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-24-80	Thank you. I give the floor to Gergely Arató, from the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-05-24-81	Dear House, Honourable Congressman, You are in an unfortunate position to be able to respond to the custom of the secretary of state who regularly lies here. Therefore, we can tell you why your information, as you have said here, deviates from reality; and I speak very delicately. Madam Congresswoman has made it very clear. Yes! These resources are not Fidesz's, not the Hungarian government's. We lobby to give these funds to those who really should be beneficiaries of these resources: Hungarian citizens, Hungarian businesses, Hungarian municipalities. The only thing that's come to light over the years is that this money can't be left to you. Because if he's in your hands, he'll be stolen. Then it's going to be a railroad, isn't it, Secretary of State? Where iron is stolen from the reinforced concrete, and I can go on indefinitely: treeless canopy, 30 or 70-inch lookout, and, of course, many, many private assets. The fact is, my honourable fellow Member, that we are lobbying and Ferenc Gyurcsány made it very clear in this regard, too, Csaba Molnár, who is simply lying about the second half of his sentence, because he said that it was a patriotic duty not to allow this money to be stolen. Look at your statement, honourable Member. So, you lie about it without blinking and unscrupulous. The thing is, the only thing that matters to you is that you can put this money away. Because if it weren't, otherwise, if it wasn't out of genuine conviction or democratic commitment because you don't have one, you'd be restoring the rule of law, guaranteeing a non-corruption operation. You refuse to do this, keep tricking, tricking, constantly trying to get away with these types of negotiations. The thing is, honourable Member, yes, we are not partners in this. We are not partners in continuing to transform EU money from public money into private money, as they have done over the past 13 years. And I understand that you don't like it, maybe not only in principle, but also in personal involvement, I don't know about that, but I have to say that we're not partners in this, and we're not going to support that. [[15.10]] I would also like to say that at least, if you are already pompous, you should know which resources are covered by the blocking of EU funds and which are not. Because if you look at this, you will see that the resources for educator wage increases are not affected by this type of blocking, the rule of law conditionality. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add one more thing: the Prime Minister, the President of the Republic, the State Secretarys, the ministers were able to pay from domestic sources, and it did not have to wait for the European Union. Maybe we should have changed the priorities. Thank you very much.
u2023-05-24-82	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, My respectful proposal is not to open up the entire range of EU funds at this item on the agenda. I give you the floor, Gy. Erzsébet Németh, from the DK Group. Here you go.
u2023-05-24-83	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you for your patience, I promise you that I will not open up the full details of European Union funding. All the more so, because my fellow Member Gergely Arató is much better at this, and I think he has told Mr Erik Bánki quite properly. Let me make two comments: did you understand, Congressman, but you do not have to answer because I intend to ask a rhetorical question that you lied to the President of the Republic? So I only repeated the sentences of the President of the Republic when, when he appeared in public in front of the Alexander Palace, he told the teachers that there was a domestic source for this, and that would be the way to solve the teacher's wage increase. That's one of my comments. [[Erik Bánki intervenes.]] My other comment, Mr President, is that you have done this in half a second when the European Union did not want to pay the EU funds for public lighting to Hungary, because it turned out that the Prime Minister's son-in-law, István Tiborcz, was no longer an important public figure, though I do not know, because there was a judgment about this, but perhaps it was still possible to pronounce his name in the House of the country... so when István Tiborcz's company found out that he had turned the EU funds for public lighting, and therefore the Union wanted to initiate proceedings in this case, then you took this amount out of accounting for the Union in half a minute and solved the question from your own source. Now, I think that not only the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and his representatives are raising salaries so important that they have been able to raise the amount paid to István Tiborcz, but also, let's say, to raise the teacher's salary, they could finally spend a decent amount. Thank you for listening.
u2023-05-24-84	Thank you very much. No further comments were made, and the general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he would like to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2023-05-24-85	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I must admit, I was here at the beginning, although my fellow Members here said that this salad law, which is an amendment to 35 laws, is in two circles, one is the obligation to harmonise EU legislation and the other is competitiveness. I would add a third, that it falls within the competence of a Regulatory Minister, so it has a technical, substantive context. But I really did not think that these 35 laws were too little to meet the revelation needs of my fellow Members here, because at least 10 other laws should have been opened in order to be able to respond appropriately to what has been said here. The other is that, since we have been sitting here for almost a decade and a half or more, without exception, here, I believe that here the adjectives were primarily triggered by the heat of debate and not by conviction. 'Cause please, believe me, I have a very rich vocabulary, I can worry about other people, sometimes I'd like to. [[Dr. István Apáti: We have not heard this.]] But I'm not, because I'm partly bound by this environment, and I don't think it's right in human terms. I would be obliged to my fellow Members and fellow Members if we did not try to discuss a professional issue in this manner. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: It wasn't for you.]] But I'm sitting here, I'm the author. Thank you very much. As to what has been said, allow me, because there is a question that has been addressed by the majority of my fellow Members, that there is a place where I should answer to and speak as a person. One is the question of good faith and bad faith, and I thank you for your recognition. From Congresswoman Németh and my other fellow Members, it has been recognised, regardless of the position in the horseshoe, that a significant part of this bill is otherwise technically timely, eligible, and, if I understand it correctly, that there is, in fact, a somewhat understandable lack of confidence in the opposition role, and if there is confidence, then I very much hope that my answer now creates this confidence at least in part. In general, the question of trust and what we use it for and why we use it has been mentioned by several fellow Members, and solar panels have generally been set up as an example, and perhaps it was nice to refer back to the fact that the service provider has refused to attach or connect solar panels with a number of permits, with appropriate support documents, and sometimes with technical details. There is a very simple reason: simply the network could not receive them, could not receive them; indeed, there was a demand for solar reconnection of that weight. That is why I would like to say here in front of Parliament and the public that, in recent days, the Deputy Minister of Energy has said that the government has recently approved a development of HUF 160 billion specifically for the development, modernisation and expansion of the electricity grid, which we hope will give us an opportunity to allow both the connections that are being prepared and future connections. The distribution to whom the creation of the right to build, yes, for example in solar parks, I consider it to be the success of private property and a market economy based on private property. I kept it in there for a reason, if you like, in my expo, that it is not a new legal institution, it was already made up by the legislators a hundred years ago, when the Hungarian economy at the time demanded it. By the way, simplifying the rule as to why we only allow legal persons: in order to protect natural persons, therefore, citizens, the normist thought of introducing it gradually. After a year or two, when we see the practical implementation of this old-new legal institution, we consider it appropriate to re-examine the extent to which this legal institution can otherwise be extended to citizens, both from the point of view of legal protection, legal preparedness and economic strength. But there is no doubt that this is the direction of codification development. Several people mentioned bank fraud. I remembered there was statistics, but I wasn't sure, so I asked for help. [[15.20]] Unfortunately, according to the bank surveys so far, the vast majority of bank frauds, 97-98 percent, can be committed on the basis of data provided by cheated customers, and obviously a number of educational and other things are financial awareness, caution, personal data protection et cetera, we all meet with these efforts, and I hope we all support these efforts in order for citizens to be aware of the need to be more cautious in these matters. I'm telling you, in the minimum number of cases of 2-3 percent, where there is a possibility of a bank default, the bank has, of course, a guarantee obligation. My fellow Member Z. Carpathian is not here. I would like to say to several speakers that the rapporteur for the next item on the Code of Labour will be competent professionally, so who, in the heat of the debate, may have moved to the next agenda, please remain here on the next agenda and ask Mr Secretary of State Czomba the question. As regards the proposals on housing savings and, by the way, the codification and normisation option that Mr Z. Carpath has repeatedly mentioned over the last few years, I would like to refer to the proposal itself. Here, the savings banks concerned only in so far as the pre-emptor or the beneficiary is unable to act, his legal representative may act in his place. By the way, this is a standard solution which was not included in this legal arrangement, but that is otherwise in accordance with the general rules. This bill dealt with it, everything else went on. As regards the protection of debtors during the enforcement procedure, the implementing law also contains such protection today. The extent to which and the extent to which it solves the problem, if any, is, of course, always subject to debate. Unfortunately, when I was a kid, I had the privilege of being subject to an enforcement procedure, it's always a tragic thing, and every individual or family has a break in their lives. I have to say that it is not possible to come out of an enforcement procedure, nor is it intended to do so, and, at the same time, there is also legislation on the protection of minorities and the protection of debtors. Mr Z. Kárpát also said that it is not possible to be gutted on economic matters, I believe, that is the term he used to take a stand on a basis. You are absolutely right, so I would like to draw your attention to this, although this is also the next item on the agenda, that, in addition to the current 4.7 million employees, we now register about 80 to 82 thousand migrant workers. This is slightly more than half a percent, so I think it is not entirely correct to call it a mass, even in the context of another legislative proposal. The same goes for it, and I do not want to limit my fellow Member Apáti's opinion on house savings, which has also been consistently expressed for a longer period of time, and his sometimes eligible opinion, and I would like to say once again that it is not about our proposal on three and a half lines of housing savings that we have had anything to do with. With regard to car insurance, I think the Member mentioned wildlife damage; I would very much like to talk about it, but I do not want to waste your time. I've been a cooperative counsellor for 15 years, and I can talk about pro and con cases of wildlife damage for a very long time, but I'll spare you that. It's always a dispute that it's been marked, not marked, wild land, not wild land, but it's another typical thing where it's a conflict of interest, two dangerous plants, because it's both motor vehicle maintenance and hunting. What was about the real estate register and their time, the real estate and body displays, is perfectly true, sometimes these procedures are delayed, but here, as the author of a extensive register of laws, I am obliged to draw attention to the generality that, in fact, there are two great interests in the real estate register: one of which is the need for public credibility, so what is there is to be accepted, and it must be accepted until proven otherwise; the other is how long it takes for something to be shown, what can be corrected and when it can be done. Instead of the historical retrospection, I say that I remember that there were two cases in Hungary: once in 1936-37 and, secondly, in the late 1960s, when, primarily because of the large housing constructions, the procedures relating to many owners staying in unknown locations wanted to be closed by the then Metropolitan Council, first of all, that it initiated the implementation procedures, which undoubtedly accelerated the procedure, but caused at least as much damage as it had solved. So where the need for public credibility... unfortunately, unfortunately, otherwise I am willing to accept that the need to comply more closely with the administrative deadlines laid down in the legislation can in any case be. With regard to driving: with regard to the rules on compulsory car liability insurance, it is obvious that the relevant portfolio will also bring its own text for other legislation, because here I am not, in principle, adding here, in the recent period, an indication that the use of a welcome or unwelcome number of devices will be classified. Here I am thinking of electric scooter, unicycles, various vehicles that are becoming increasingly popular, electric bicycles, sometimes with relatively large motor performances, and that is true of scooters. The qualification of these vehicles, whether on the road or on the sidewalk, falls within the scope of road traffic rules. The reason why the insurance area was needed was because it was inevitably caused by such an accident. Therefore, we consider this regulation to be eligible for support by ourselves. I was talking about network development. Sorry, even for insurance: insurance companies are still obliged to publish claims notices at the administration. This is usually published so that this is then done in a place where the client who goes there reads or grabs your attention is another question. [[15.30]] Z. Kárpát, to the point that my fellow Member, Mr Dániel, would like to repeat here what has already been said, that this section of the law is of a very technical nature, and that is the Ptk. and it is necessary to introduce new rules on the right to mortgage. Finally, but not least, I would like to return to the subject of house saving, which is not, or is not, a subject of this proposal, and I would like to speak on behalf of the government side. At a time when the rules on house savings and house loans are being assessed, my fellow Members, I ask you to take into account that we have established a CSOK support system, the village CSOK, the money to help young people start their lives, the baby shower loans and a number of other measures that help this truly fundamental issue for the future of our society. On this basis, I would ask those who support it to support it in the vote, and those who, for reasons of confidence, expressed their doubts, I hope convinced by my answer, to change this position and to support the bill. Thank you, Mr President, for your patience and opportunity. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-24-86	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the bill on the employment of migrant workers in Hungary will follow until closure. Government referral T/4026. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Czomba, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2023-05-24-87	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In 2010, the Hungarian government set the goal of creating a million new jobs at home, thus creating a work-based society. While 13 years ago only 3.7 million people worked in our country, today this figure has increased to 4.7 million people, or we have fulfilled our promise, and we are at arm's length from full employment. High unemployment was then the main problem, which has now changed, the biggest challenge today is the existence of a new workforce. The government's aim is to fill this ever stronger demand for labour with Hungarian labour, primarily to provide work for Hungarian people. The government therefore plans to meet all the stronger labour demand by increasing the economic activity of the Hungarian population and involving the inactive in the labour market. Job seekers, inactive, under 25, over 65, underemployed, and mothers with small children still have a reserve of about 300,000. Our task is to integrate as many of them into the labour market as possible, i.e. those who can and can work, to get them to work. To this end, our important task is to explore the still available workforce reserve and, through the strengthening of corporate contacts, also the existing vacant posts. With this information, employment classes are the most effective way to channel labour to businesses. In addition, if necessary, we must make future workers fit for entry into the labour market through training and retraining. We also need to strengthen intra-country mobility and try to bring investment to where there is still a workforce reserve available. Honourable Members, Today, there is only a limited availability of new workers, and these workers' hands are not always where they are needed. We can clearly say that there is competition for labour throughout Europe, to which the Hungarian government must also respond. In the difficult economic situation caused by war and sanctions, we cannot allow investment to be missed because of the lack of labour. The Hungarian economy needs new investments, as this is the key to further development. One of the most important tasks and objectives of the government is to protect Hungarian jobs, so jobs are filled first with labour from Hungarian and EU Member States, if they are no longer available, with people from neighbouring countries, mainly Ukrainian and Serbian citizens, if there are no longer enough workers there, then job vacancies can be filled with people from third countries. According to the current legislation, third-country nationals can work in Hungary without authorisation, without labour market scrutiny or under general rules. In order to protect the Hungarian labour market, a quota determines how many third-country nationals can work in Hungary at the same time. Dear Parliament, The bill before you on the employment of migrant workers in Hungary provides a transparent and rigorous regulatory framework in which it clarifies the conditions under which migrant workers can be employed in Hungary. Employment by non-priority employers and non-rated loans may in all cases be subject to a licence issued on the basis of a labour market investigation. The bill defines the concept of migrant workers and the rules governing them as a special category of employment. According to this, Hungary grants the migrant worker the right to enter and stay for work within 180 days of 90 days, on condition that the employment of the migrant worker actually takes place here. The proposal sets out the general conditions under which migrant workers may be allowed to stay in Hungary for more than 90 days. Such conditions shall include, inter alia, the existence of a valid travel document, other authorisation, the provision of adequate accommodation and the necessary financial background for a living, and compliance with public security and national security considerations. The proposal states that a migrant worker may obtain a single residence permit solely for the purpose of employment. It also sets out the licensing criteria for their work. Based on this, migrant workers can only come from a specific third country in Hungary, and can work in specific numbers and employment. The bill also sets out the procedural benefits that apply when the employment of the migrant worker is carried out by a preferential employer or by a tax on a qualified loan, taking into account the existing employment rules. In order to protect the Hungarian labour market, the employer must submit his labour demand to the employment department of the district office before submitting his consolidated application. In addition, you have to declare that you have failed to fill a given job with a Hungarian job seeker. The application procedure shall not start until then. The bill also lays down rules on the issue and extension of the single permit. According to this, the residence permit for migrant workers is valid for a maximum of two years on the territory of Hungary, and may be extended for a maximum period of one year only for the purpose of working under the proposal, i.e. a migrant worker may stay in Hungary for a maximum of three years. It should be pointed out that, during the period of validity of the residence permit and after the expiry of the residence permit, the residence permit may not be applied for on a domestic basis. The new, planned rules do not allow the family reunification of migrant workers or their establishment, which is in line with the migration policy of the Hungarian government. Dear Parliament, The bill states that, in the event of the extension of the residence permit of the migrant worker, it is necessary to obtain the position of the government office as the administrative authority in all cases to examine the availability of a Hungarian and EU workforce to fill the post. [[15.40]] Regardless of the position of the administrative authority, the migrant worker must demonstrate the qualifications and educational qualifications required for the performance of the activity. In the context of the procedure for extending the residence permit for the migrant worker, the administrative authority should declare whether its work can be supported in the light of domestic employment policy considerations. The proposal also provides for a notification obligation for the employer in the event of a change in the employment conditions of the migrant worker; it also specifies the cases of extension and withdrawal of their residence permit. The guest worker may stay in Hungary only until the employment relationship with the employer is established and for the period specified in the residence permit. In view of this, the proposal states that the employer is obliged to make every effort to allow the migrant worker to leave the territory of the Member States of the European Union at the latest on the last day of his residence permit's validity. Honourable Members, The number of workers from third countries in Hungary is far from outstanding, the least migrant workers are employed in Hungary compared to the size of the labour market in the Visegrád countries. The aim of the bill is not even by chance to bring workers to Hungary in bulk, who will lose the work of Hungarians. [[Gergely Harvester: Not by chance!]] On the contrary, the main objective is to bring foreign workers to our country under strict conditions, within a regulated framework, and only as much as is necessary. The government therefore also promotes the retention of the Hungarian workforce and the creation of new jobs through the use of migrant workers, which serves the growth of the Hungarian economy. Dear Parliament, I trust you agree with the bill, as it serves the interests of the Hungarian economy and the preservation of a work-based society. I would ask the honourable Parliament to discuss the bill before us and to support the regulatory intention set out in the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-24-88	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Kristóf Szatmáry, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-05-24-89	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. Dear fellow Members, As has been said here in the Expoze, there is a bill before Parliament today, which in itself is a positive vision of the past 12 years of the Hungarian economy, which makes this bill necessary. Hungary, we know, implemented a successful employment turn in 2010, which may be described as unprecedented in the post-system change period and has indeed come close to the state of full employment. In terms of employment, we have caught up in the ranks of the Member States from the EU's driving force, and unemployment has been reduced to record low levels. By the way, while Covid was at the same time a war and factors for which it was expected, unfortunately, to influence this low level of unemployment in the opposite direction. Over the past decade, we have been able to increase the number of employees by 1 million, stable to 4.7 million, while labour reserves have gradually become exhausted. The potential domestic labour reserve has fallen to less than half, from 740 thousand to about 300 thousand since the turn of employment in 2010. The number of economically active workers has increased by more than half a million since 2010. There have never been so many workers who want to work and are actively seeking jobs in the Hungarian labour market. Otherwise, the labour market situation has improved in all EU Member States over the last decade, but Hungary's employment growth is also the most dynamic in the whole EU. The employment level of the population aged 20-64 is now 21.4 percentage points higher, and has improved to more than 80 percent since the government change in 2010. With this, we were able to move to the seventh place in the ranking of the Member States. The number of registered job seekers has shrunk to a historical low of 230,000. Hungary has been at the forefront of the EU for years in terms of persistent unemployment of around 3-4 percent. And while the country's workforce reserves are slowly being exhausted, the number of labour needs in the domestic competitive sector has almost doubled compared to the employment low after the epidemic. Over the past decade, the number of empty job posts has been close to 90,000 at national level, which corresponds to almost 3 percent compared to the number of employees. Most of the workforce is missing from the industrial sector, where the number of job vacancies exceeds 25 000 at the moment. Demand is mainly for skilled workers, while unskilled employment accounts for around 20% of company labour demand, which corresponds to approximately 20,000 people. Labour shortages mainly affect the more economically developed regions of the country, but in essence they have become a global phenomenon in the national economy. The most difficult situation is, of course, the Central-Transdanubian region, where the labour shortage is almost 5%. The geographical distribution of the workforce reserve is very uneven, by the way. The largest workforce reserve is located in the regions of North Hungary and Northern Hungary, with about 100,000 people in the two regions together; in the western parts, this has practically been reduced to a minimum. In five counties unemployment was below 2 percent, which means essentially full employment: Veszprém, Komárom, Fejér, Csongrád-Csanád and Vas county. This shows the stability of the Hungarian economy, but the further expansion of the economy requires a skilled workforce. Hungary needs a stable growth path to catch up with the EU average for development. This requires new investments, but investments will require labour. By 2030, if all goes well, the number of employees should be increased by nearly half a million people. Of course, the government plans to satisfy this demand by increasing the economic activity of the Hungarian population, involving the inactive in the labour market. The labour market reserve for more than 300,000 people should be strengthened and included in the labour market through training, retraining. The government, and it can rely fully on the support of the faction, intends to replace today's unfulfilled jobs along this path. As has already been said here, among the Visegrád countries, which are the most given in comparison, the least migrant workers are employed in Hungary, and most of them come from the surrounding countries, Serbia and Transcarpathia, and are typically native to Hungary. In order to protect the Hungarian labour market, the number of non-EU migrant workers employed in Hungary is fixed by quota, otherwise on the basis of labour demand a year earlier. The aim of the amendment of the legislation on the employment of migrant workers in Hungary is therefore to further strengthen the Hungarian economy, including the protection of jobs, employment and the strengthening of a work-based society, even in the prolonged war situation. The essence of the bill is, as has been said, the creation of the legal category of migrant workers, the employment of various third countries coming to basically large projects. The bill formally defines and describes the circle of persons we identify as guest workers in Hungary, so not all third-country nationals and persons who work in Hungary are of course migrant workers; the range of migrant workers will be much narrower. [[15.50]] The creation of the legal category of migrant workers can therefore be interpreted as virtually one kind of tightening, or should be interpreted in this way in the current situation. In their case, the bill excludes, as has been said here, a very important element of the bill is family reunification, the acquisition of a national residence permit. So before there are any accusations about the bill or the supporters that there would be any move towards multiculturalism here, well, this bill precludes social processes in this direction while preserving the dynamics of the Hungarian economy. The residence permit, quite rightly, is for a maximum of three years. Its important guarantee rules prevent the development of multicultural societies of the Western European type, as I have already mentioned. The bill is also a good insight into the economic policy of the last 10 to 12 years, as the labour shortage in the Hungarian economy has become systemic. In order to maintain the dynamics of the Hungarian economy, we can continue to catch up, we need a workforce, but we need a workforce that does not break up the fabric of Hungarian society, it does not go towards Western European multiculturalism. The guarantee elements of this are contained in the law, so I can promise to support the Fidesz fraction in advance. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-24-90	Thank you. I give the floor to Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-05-24-91	Dear House, I think it is safe to say that, since the slave law, there has not been a bill by the government more harmful to Hungarian workers and the Hungarian economy in the longer term than the law before us. This is indeed the essence of 12 years of economic policy. You are developing the economy, not for Hungarian workers, not for Hungarian workers, not for this country, but for a selected narrow circle, and for large international companies, to put it mildly with you. This proposal is only about this, and this proposal is only in the interests of this narrow economy and its related economic and political elite in Hungary, while it is extremely harmful to Hungarian workers, Hungarian workers. What is this proposal about if we cut the crap, the propaganda, the usual boasting? About creating the opportunity for as many workers from third countries, in Hungarian, outside the European Union, to arrive in Hungary without any meaningful control. Because the measures that are included in this bill from this point of view are not only insufficient but also frivolous. We have already seen that while you have put anti-immigration posters around the country, while if your economic interest, your personal interest, has wished for this, you have unscrupulously brought in migrant workers for all kinds of economic tasks. And what is this proposal about? I'll tell you. It is about how there will be a special category of employees, but not for everyone, not for Hungarian workers, not for Hungarian small companies. No! You will tell us what companies can use this type of preferential foreign employment, and you will also tell me what those temporary agency companies would be willing to bet on what economic interests there are behind these employment rental companies that can take advantage of this opportunity. So, a beneficiary of your choice will be able to bring foreign workers without any necks for the beneficiary company you choose. And don't say that I don't know what you're doing with the situation in the labour market, because the fact is that you're also going to determine what the situation in the labour market is like. So they allow you to allow companies that are dear to you to bring non-EU labour force to Hungary through intermediaries that are kind to you. The fact is, we can see why this is necessary. Because the economic policy that has been conducted over the past 12 years is completely flawed, and the consequences are already visible. Instead of stopping at the edge of the gap, they continue to push the gas. They want to further strengthen the industry based on the assembly industry, which creates low added value, low-wage jobs. I am always very proud, as representatives of Kőbánya and Kispest, that in my constituency there is the centre of Richter and there is a modern research centre of Bosch, but you do not support this type of economic development, but you want to bring battery factories to Hungary, and you want to continue to develop activities that are environmentally destructive, which consume Hungarian resources and do not serve the interests of Hungarian industry in the longer term. This is what you need, because we know that, for example, in the case of battery factories, a significant part of the workers will not be Hungarian or non-European workers. That's what you're trying to make easier. And the result? The fact that employment in this way is suppressing the wages that Hungarian workers receive. As a result, I quote today's figures that in the last year, as much as it sounds good, wages have increased by 16 percent between the consequences of fasting inflation in Orbán in the last year, from March to March, real wages have actually decreased by 7 percent, i.e. the value of wages. The wages that Hungarian workers receive in the shops today are worth so much less. This is your economic policy: easier employment, favourable conditions for large foreign companies and their interlinked Fidesz elite, and falling real wages for Hungarian workers. They want to continue this economic policy! It is indeed the essence of their 12-year governance, a summary of this bill. For this they are now looking for additional legal frameworks. They say that these migrant workers do not take away the work of Hungarians. Well, they're not gonna take it, because the Hungarians are gonna have a job, they're gonna have a European job for a European salary. Only not in Hungary, but in Austria, Germany, and earlier in Britain and the Netherlands. The process will continue that guest workers will work in Hungary, and Hungarians will work as migrant workers in Western Europe, because this economic policy is not suitable for competitive wages in Hungary. Congressman congratulates me on the fact that there is a decline in labour resources already in Csongrád County. You know why? Because it's worth going from Hungary to Romania now. Now, you're boasting that it's worth going to Romania to work. Congratulations on that. This is your result. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that you clearly understand nothing of what is happening to Hungary today. They did not understand how this country was economically destroyed, they did not understand how the situation of Hungarian workers had been impaired in the last 13 years, and they did not understand how deteriorating working conditions and low wages led to the departure of Hungarian workers who could do so. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, according to the shadow government and the Democratic Coalition, a radically different economic policy is needed. We need an economic policy that supports well-selected sectors, building on Hungarian traditions, creates knowledge-based, modern and competitive jobs; jobs in Europe that allow European wages to be paid for European work. This is the goal that we are fighting for, not to have as many migrant workers as possible. Because economic growth, as you imagine, only enriches a narrow circle. It is only good for the multinationals and the connected Hungarian economic and political elite. We do not want such economic growth, nor such economic development. We want economic development of which Hungarian workers are also beneficiaries. We want economic development that is worth staying in Hungary for, and it is worth coming back to those who have left. That's why we stand up and support this. [[16.00]] The thing is, you say that the government's main objective is to involve inactive people in the labour market. Well, that's not what the bill says. Is that what this bill is about? What have you done to involve the inactive? I'll tell you. They have reduced all the support that has supported the return to the labour market, brought down the adult education system, and brought down the vocational training system. Now, that's what you've done to activate the workforce reserves. Nothing is important to you, but the profit that is in the interest of the large multi-enterprises and fidesz oligarchs that are intertwined with you, which, if necessary, rewinds a sufficient amount. That is all that is important to you in economic development! This is why we have inflation in Orbán, which is why Hungarian workers are going abroad, so no investments are coming that create sustainable, environmentally friendly, knowledge-based jobs and European salaries. This proposal is not only simply unacceptable, but it is outrageous, harmful, unacceptable, and, of course, we do not support it.
u2023-05-24-92	Thank you very much, Congressman Gergely Arató. With all due respect to the Parliament, Congressmen, the guests. I give the floor to Mr László Földi, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2023-05-24-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The national government represents national interests. This has been the foundation since 2010, and we have not allowed this to happen. What is the Hungarian interest? The Hungarian interest is that every adult Hungarian who can work should have a job. Have a job that is at home and provides a decent living, because if there is work, then there is everything; not only financial security, but also self-esteem and maintenance. And if the child sees that his parents go to work every morning, and they love their work, and they pay for it, then the most important community in society, the family and the child in it, the next generation that gets a good sample from their parents, and he can plan his future at home himself. On this basis, the government is consistently working towards full employment and building a work-based economy. We have significant results in this area. My fellow Member mentioned earlier that in 2010, employment in the 20-64-year-old population was only 60 percent, which did not reach the EU average. Now it's over 80 percent. A million people have a new job. 4.7 million people can work in Hungary, while the number of registered job seekers has fallen dramatically. The unemployment rate is well below the EU average. This brings Hungary to the top of the seven best performing countries, Germany and the Scandinavian states. The problem now is not unemployment, but labour shortages. My fellow Member has also mentioned that there are about 300 thousand inactive workers in Hungary now, and the training and re-training of these are vital in order to ensure that the posts that will be created in this country in the coming years can be provided with the right workforce. Of course, it would be easy to say that if there is no local workforce, let migrants in, and the problem will be solved. But that's not true. The admission of migrants would not be a solution, but a series of problems and even problems without solutions. This is already known by politicians in Western Europe, who took pictures a few years ago of naive humanism with those who arrived illegally in the country, and now they are holding their heads to which their voters are reading the spread of terrorism, the destruction of traditional national culture and the collapse of the labour market. Hungary is not on this path. The bill before us also aims to keep the baby from spilling with the bath water. In Hungary, work must be given first to Hungarians, followed by EU countries and then third-country nationals. This motion therefore does not change the status quo, i.e. the fact that Hungary employs the least migrant workers compared to the labour market size of the Visegrád states. By strengthening the previous soloists, it is my position and KDNP's position that as long as there is a Hungarian employee, we should fill these jobs with Hungarians. The basic position of the draft law is, to say, its philosophy, but it must also be seen that labour market challenges must be addressed, since the replacement of the missing workforce will be a key issue for the future of the Hungarian economy. It is important to emphasise that the government's objective remains to prohibit and prevent illegal migration. At present, the labour market situation in Hungary is particularly good, so one of the objectives of the draft law is to protect our jointly achieved results. So as long as there is a Hungarian employee, we would fill the vacancies with Hungarians, so the government expects the Hungarians working abroad to be repatriated. If there is no free Hungarian labour force, those who come from neighbouring countries can first become the focus of the Hungarian economy, but if there is reason to involve additional human resources, there may also be employment of third-country workers, but only under very strict regulations. The idea is that the new legislation will distinguish between migrant workers and make it easier for them to work, as the residence permit will also automatically be granted an employment permit, but only a fixed quota will protect Hungarian workers. Only the number of workers from third countries authorised by the predefined quota will be allowed. In addition to strict criteria, the stay of migrant workers can last for two years and may be extended by up to one year. It is also important to stress that foreigners will not flood the Hungarian labour market. They are currently very low in terms of regional relations in Hungary as well. While the third country employment rate in Poland is around 6 per cent, we have 1.5 to 1.7 per cent. So you can see: one of the most important objectives of the bill is to keep Hungarian labour market processes in a manageable and regulated framework. This is also important because there has already been and will be significant investment in Hungary, which together will require hundreds of thousands of people to be employed. Dear Parliament, The aim of the bill is therefore to protect the Hungarian labour force, but to provide a stable and transparent framework for the import of third country labour necessary for the implementation of foreign investment. Ladies and gentlemen, With all this in mind, on behalf of the KDNP faction, I grant the bill of our support, and I ask every responsible member of the Parliament to do so. Thank you for the floor. [[Christopher Szatmáry applauds.]]
u2023-05-24-94	Thank you very much, Congressman László Earth. The Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party indicated that two speakers presented the group's position, but I do not see the representatives in the Chamber, so we must move on. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2023-05-24-95	Mr President, Dear House, Not only do people have uneven feelings about the proposal, since there are relatively few moments of grace when our community agrees with Fidesz, but there has been a national consultation several years ago, where it has been stated that living immigration cannot be an alternative in Hungary. I fully agree with this, and so do the Hungarian people, and I hold this position. So there is no scenario in which the vacuum caused by demographic emigration in Hungary is consciously, organised from the third world, because it releases the spirit from the bottle, triggers inaccessible processes, and can lead to a national sequence. That is why I am still stunned by the proposal, although it must be appreciated that one or two nuclear bombs have been removed from it compared to the version released for the social debate. [[16.10]] So what had originally been discussed in society was able to present a single defence system, a quota-like solution, where the Government of Hungary is to say how many migrant workers can come to Hungary every year, and obviously this quota can be determined annually by the taste of their own mouth, according to different market indicators and other lifestyles. It is clear that many European countries use similar shields, so it is worth examining the models that work, and we also see that very few EU countries have said that this is enough in itself, precisely because it is a little subjective. A government can reach it in its own power by not finding much counter-force, and we can see perfectly well that, if it is in the interests of the Fidesz governments, it will give up its clear negative position on living immigration because of the upward shift of GDP data. We have therefore said that it is entirely inadequate to use a quota on its own. It is also important to see that, fortunately, it is also included in the text in relation to the original plan that after the labour demand signal, the employer has to declare to the public employment body that the job seeker of Hungarian citizenship has failed to fill the given position. I appeal to Mr Secretary of State that, in addition to the declaration, there is a deep drilling or a real check on it, either this is a verbal statement that I could not find a labour force, or it is true that there is a shortage in the sector and in the sector in question that there is really nothing to do there. I've struggled a lot on the subject, by the way. Honestly, I'm subjective, gut-fully rejecting the mass presence of guest workers. I also see in parallel that there are two sectors where there are already so many migrant workers, that if I took them out of the system for a month, those two sectors would face enormous problems. One is the construction industry, and the other is agriculture, where, at least with seasonality, this would already cause huge problems. This does not exonerate the governments of recent years or decades from allowing this situation to arise, but it must also be seen that the tightening of the regulation would also require these facts. You can see that here, compared to the basic version, we've been able to confirm that there's at least one statement pressure. However, we have a concrete proposal, which is part of a triple shield protecting Hungarian workers, which means that the employer should not only declare that he was looking for, but could not find a Hungarian worker, but must also demonstrate to the Bulgarian model that there was no one who could, of course, have been trained free of charge for the employee to do so. So, if you work here in a multi-company and North-East Hungary, you can't say that you want to bring in hundreds, thousands of Filipino migrant workers, but look first of your own workers, if any, in other parts of the country, in order to be able to train someone with motivations and positive tools, you can create a climate that they want to perform from among the Hungarians. Because the situation is brutal: hundreds of thousands of people left their country under duress. We are all aware of wage data, in some segments we are in the last two European rankings. Obviously, there will be Secretary of State and other Members who will want to look at purchasing power parities, let's look at it, but then let's also see how much Hungarians' wages are worth in euro. We find disappointing data, because if we look at this smartphone, this glasses frame, this jacket, or any durable consumer goods, typically the trader buys them for the euro on the European market, and in Lisbon it is likely to cost the same amount of money for a phone in euro as in Westend. And unfortunately, even in the case of food, it is true that even for domestic production, we need the instruments bought for expensive euros, the processing tool, the chemical, the plant protection product. So we cannot exclude ourselves from the negative effects of weak forints. In such terms, hundreds of thousands of Hungarians were allowed to emigrate, even though they could have made housing and renting programs as a counterattack, they could have carried through a wage union concept. So my second question to the Secretary of State is that, if this guest worker regulation is already being implemented for the benefit of multi-company companies, it is open to a solution that renegotiates strategic agreements with the same multi-companies and sets out to the Hungarian people at least the implementation of a slow wage-setting concept for normal wages. So let's look at what productivity allows, and as much as it strengthens, at least increase the wages of Hungarians, approach, not the Western European and Luxembourg average to a European average. Let there be approximation, so let us not stagnation and some segments of distance be tangible, but approach. So it is a very important question that the government is willing to do this. Thirdly, the Government of Hungary is willing to state in this proposal what is the minimum amount per sector, what is the minimum amount one has to earn, because only this clause can guarantee that the incoming third-worlders will not be able to break the wages of Hungarians by taking the same job much cheaper. The Hungarian people's wages must be protected from the crowd of migrant workers, because if there is no resistance, then, of course, the large global multinational employers will say that they choose the cheaper, and this will force worse working conditions and weaker wages on those Hungarians who are trying to thrive in their homeland. The three additional individuals, as the fourth and most important proposal, Mr Secretary of State, please comment on the Hungarian quota institution, which we put on the table to guarantee. Here are these companies, in Hungary there can also be multinationals and small businesses, although in different circumstances, but state aid, i.e. subsidies from taxpayers' money, according to our position and the Hungarian quota, can only be granted to a company that employs at least 90% of those within the EEA, typically Hungarians. Here we are talking about Hungarian people's tax forints, from which they support multi-company companies with hundreds of billions of dollars in magnitude in recent years. I think it is a minimal and realistic expectation that the Hungarian people's tax forints support jobs that enrich Hungarian families in the form of salaries and the wages of which Hungarians can devote to their prosperity in the homeland. It is absolutely realistic and a minimalist expectation, because it represents the national interest: do not use Hungarian taxpayers' money to support jobs that come from the third world to be filled by organised imports. I also welcome the fact that migrant workers cannot yet unite a family. I also welcome the fact that the organisation of their establishment is not included in this proposal. But I would like to warn you that, when the first waves of Turkish migrant workers arrived in Germany, this was not institutionalised, inventing that millions and tens of millions of immigrants will live there for decades, where appropriate, to develop parallel societies. The fact is that this spirit can get out of the bottle, and in parallel to what is placed here on the table, it would be a dog's duty to talk about emigrated Hungarians, and I didn't hear, I didn't see anything in this proposal, in addition to a few nice words, about how they want to lure people who migrate abroad from coercion. It can only be with normal wages, a concept for normal wages. And then we didn't even talk about the demographic vacuum, which will regenerate this problem over the next decades. We have to respect every young Hungarian, we have to respect both middle-aged and older workers tremendously, because there are few of us and there will be even fewer of us. It is a great luxury merely to say that we fill the missing places with restrictions, but with third-worlders. That is not what I would like to see; I would like to see here a programme of prosperity in the homeland, which guarantees a housing and rental program for those who are coerced with the idea of emigration, a program that can attract those who are already out there, and a program for normal wages that can prevent this problem in the long term. There is no other way, there is no other way, because if it stays that way, there will be migrant workers' regulations in Europe, but more than one million Hungarians will be subject to migrant workers' regulations in other countries. It's an amazing vision that a million-dollar mass will flow out of here, and believe me, in the long run, you're going to be sending a million-dollar guest worker in here, if the demographic situation stays that way, emigration data will remain. I ask you not to come by turning the net migration balance around, because very, very few of the emigrants are handing in their documents, tearing up the last staples that connect them to the mother country, because an ex- foreign exchange loaner who is trying to make the money from which he pays the heavy burden on the forint in a slaughterhouse in Western Europe will not necessarily announce to you that he is no longer a Hungarian citizen. We could talk a lot about commuters, too, but the KSH statistics they refer to don't show the real situation. [[16.20]] All in all, therefore, a demographic disaster, in the middle of an emigration disaster, should not only deal with migrant workers and only in this way, so this package can be called multi-friendly, since it essentially serves the interests of multi-company companies and makes it easier for them to work in Hungary. But I am glad that Mr State Secretary and several of my fellow Members talked about one more thing, and this is a question of economic growth. Please, let's talk about this. The multi-companies that are benefiting from this package typically generate huge profits in Hungary, from car manufacturers and later on from battery companies, but it is also true that if we look at, say, the tax willingness of one or two car manufacturers in West Hungary, we find not 11 or 15 percent or 8 percent tax willingness, but often 0.5 or 1 percent, Mr Secretary of State. In the GDP you bring to the table, there's Royalty, there's dividends. According to Péter Róna, there is a huge mass of money that these multi-company companies are taking out of the country, typically untaxed, and they can amount to up to 2.5-3 percent of GDP if all related factors are included. Overall, therefore, it should not be approximated only on the basis of GDP data. It would also be absolutely good to have a human development index that measures subjective factors: access to education, access to health care, the opportunity to thrive in the homeland, the sense of life in which we live; because in the long run, they determine how many migrant workers you will try to bring into the country organised. We see that with regard to all human satisfaction and happiness indexes, on the list of freedom of the press, I do not fetishize them beyond, but Hungary is repressed at systemic level and is becoming more and more backward. So I beg you not only to hold on to your GDP, because it may be better for some years, unfortunately not these days, and it may be that the multinational companies will split here and take a lot of dividends out of the country, but that does not necessarily mean it will be better for the Hungarian society and it will not be better in itself. The fact is that you should at least do so much for Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, for Hungarian workers who could be in an extremely difficult situation if this package does not work properly. If the third world workers come here at a cheaper price, they will break the wages of Hungarians and force worse working conditions on the Hungarians. Secretary of State, explain to me how Tabra, in a settlement of 4,000 people, is there 400 Filipino migrant workers in a county where sack villages are full of inactive people? ! We need free re-training programs for young people in the surrounding city, where they can learn the profession and generate plenty of income for themselves, for their families. It is quite simply unimaginable that in parts of the country where it is, there would be a spare workforce, and guest workers would appear; once again, in areas where they had not been heard before. In a settlement of 4,000 people, 400 Filipino migrant workers have an inactive workforce in the surrounding villages; I think it perfectly paints the situation we are in. The Hungarian economy has an unhealthy structure, local labour surplus, unemployment and a shortage of workers, and the Hungarian economy should solve these problems at the same time. It is certain that it is not with a package of guest workers and multi-friends, but with the three shields that I have outlined earlier, and with the Hungarian quota that allows Hungarian taxpayers' money to be spent solely in the form of support for the interests of Hungarian families, and if this is done, then we can say that Hungary belongs to Hungarians and that we cannot set a smaller target in terms of the labour market. Thank you for your attention.
u2023-05-24-96	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. I now give the floor to Mr István Szabadi, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Group, who will talk about the pulpit from this height.
u2023-05-24-97	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear House, In 2015, the Prime Minister spoke about the need to stop economic immigration, because Hungary belongs to Hungarians. Compared to this, this bill allows for mass immigration of foreign migrant workers, which is necessary because of the shortage of labour caused by their failed economic policy. The government's economic policy has been about political survival instead of building an independent national economy over the past 13 years, even the Balliberal governments are outnumbered to support the multinationals to bring their investments to our country. In the short term, however, they can say how much GDP has increased and how many new jobs have been created, but they are pushing the country into economic dependence in the long term. You can see that. They also made their election promise before 2010 to create one million new jobs in ten years, only with public workers, by forcing former invalids, under 18 and retired age groups to work. It makes me think that the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, Tamás Menczer, has most of the time spoken on the subject instead of the Secretary of State responsible for employment policy. With this bill, however, it has become clear what your work-based society is about. They boast that full employment is near. However, at the opening of the economic year, Prime Minister talked about the need to fill half a million new jobs in the recovery factories in the coming years, which the domestic labour market is not able to provide, so guest workers can come. Imports of Asian working capital seem to be accompanied by the influx of Asian workers. They do not add that the majority of their salary is transferred home to their family members, they do not spend on lasting goods, or rather on their daily livelihoods, so their wages will only increase GDP on paper. As a result of the so-called high-pressure economic policy, labour shortages had already become a national economic problem in 2015 which was then addressed by Romanian, Serbian and Ukrainian workers. The Hungarian Movement has repeatedly stressed that mass immigration is not only stopped by border fences, but by low wages, but mostly by low wages. Last year, László Parragh said that Hungary's competitiveness is based on cheap labour. It is an enormous shame in itself that Hungarians' labour force is being sold cheaply. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, This is the thinking that should be kept away forever and banished from Hungarian politics. Within Europe, we are not a very popular destination for work, but we serve as transit countries, because in Western Europe there is much more to be earned. Foreign labour is mainly imported from developing countries, Southeast Asia and the Philippines, because for them Hungarian wages are still higher than home opportunities. However, there is a risk that their application will result in a break in the Hungarian wage level, or at least not in the direction of growth. Dear Parliament, The number of foreign workers arriving in Hungary was close to 70,000 in 2015 and 2016 to 2019; then the restrictions reduced to 36 thousand in 2020, but this started to grow again in 2021. Under Covid, the government could have realised that, in order to create economic sovereignty, domestic production capacities should be removed from global supply chains as soon as possible. Instead, it was exactly the opposite, the government gave most of its support in 2021, with reference to the recovery of the post-pest economy, of course, 250 billion forints for the multinationals; and that is very bad that this is natural. At the same time, the work of citizens from nine countries and then another eight countries in Hungary was significantly facilitated. And last year's government decree allowed third-country workers to come to the country without a work permit through employment agencies. So far, 25 companies have been given certification permission to hire an Asian employee. In return, Asian workers may be brought to their partners under a large number of simplified procedures. However, local recruiters may only want to get applicants within the Schengen border, who pay them good money and then disappear. Unfortunately, this danger is perfectly in the system. The overall cost for employers to hire foreign migrant workers is more than the cost of hiring Hungarians, since they also have to pay for accommodation and plane tickets, and they also have to have a tax number and a farm number, and they have to be taken to a doctor in the event of illness. [[16.30]] It is true that, in return, fluctuations can be reduced to zero, because the Hungarian employee can easily do that if he receives a better wage offer, then he has changed. On the other hand, it is easy to say that the employer employs foreigners in a fixed way, while the number of Hungarian unemployed people is increasing. This is because it is more costly for the employer to withdraw from a long-term agreement with the migrant worker, but unfortunately it is easier to terminate the contract of the domestic worker. According to KSH data, the number of people employed increased from 160,000 to 195 thousand in June to March last year, which shows a dangerous trend. Based on the statistical data, as I have already mentioned, in 2021 71 thousand, in 2022 74 thousand and this year 85 thousand foreign citizens are staying in Hungary for the purpose of employment. Over the past year, almost 20,000 workers have arrived through qualified temporary agency companies. In parallel, the number of Hungarians working abroad will make a record, from 85 thousand people in January 2021 to more than 100,000 in March this year. It is clear that there may be a change of population in the country. More than 100,000 Hungarian compatriots working abroad should be able to provide competitive conditions and wages. Dear Parliament, It began in Western Europe: in the 1960s and 1970s, guest workers arrived in Germany with the aim that they only wanted to work, and now they control entire urban districts. The first generation was still working, and the second generation was mostly on welfare. Based on the experiences of intermediary companies, there were some Asian workers who ran away before starting employment. We find it a problem that the bill does not mention what is happening if the group of guest workers cannot fit in and accept our cultural customs or if they cause Hungarians to stumble by their outspoken behavior. Why don't you just dismiss them right away? We find it outrageous that some intermediary companies place the emphasis on sensitizing not the migrant worker, but the Hungarian worker, in order to facilitate integration. Although the bill does not allow migrant workers to settle and maximize the duration of residence permits for 2+1 years, what if the employer fails to persuade the worker to leave the EU territory on the last day? What happens if, for example, during your stay in Hungary, an Indian migrant worker, let us say, does not allow it, but still establishes a partnership and children are born? You're not seriously suggesting that a bill can influence emotions and biology, are you? According to the bill, the number of migrant workers will be maximized by regulation, but we miss that there is no relationship in the bill that shows the magnitude. Currently, there are many companies in Hungary, where the percentage of foreign workers can reach 50 percent. For example, here is the Samsung factory in Göd, where 6,000 people work, half the workers are foreign, and the number of workers in Göd is less than a hundred. In our view, the majority of the systems that are still built on physical workers will also be embedded in the mass resettlement of white collar workers. Government communication does not mention the demographic causes of the tight labour market, i.e. 30-40 000 more workers retire every year than the number of young people entering the labour market. They also do not mention the fact that work protection and strike rights have been destroyed globally in recent years. In the opinion of the Hungarian Movement, this bill should not have been made. It is necessary to build an independent national economy, which does not require hundreds of thousands of foreign migrant workers. Hungarians working abroad should be called home with an appropriate government programme, which did not succeed during the first Orbán government or in the last 13 years, and we should not talk about Balliberal governments, especially there. Instead of foreign multinationals, it would be necessary to invest in strengthening local economies, as two thirds of Hungarian workers are employed by the SME sector. It is not necessary to create conditions for the mass influx of migrant workers; it is necessary to create conditions for Hungarians to live decently at home, not to migrate to Western Europe. Unthinkingly, one day after another, they decide to set up huge assembly workshops. What's the next step, Mr. Secretary? The production lines will be automated in a few years, because, say, the labor shortage will be solved by robots on a Japanese model? Is this how you imagine the country's future? Instead, we demand that Hungary truly belongs to the Hungarians. As I have already said, this bill should not have been born, for us, for the Hungarian Movement, this bill is completely unacceptable. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2023-05-24-98	Thank you very much, Congressman István Szabadi. I now give the floor to Congressman Sándor Berki, the lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue. You have the floor.
u2023-05-24-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if you knew that the unemployment rate in Nógrád County is above 8 percent. What does that mean? Eight out of a hundred people are actively looking for work, but they can't find, eight out of a hundred families should eat from scratch, pay rent, raise children. Let me tell you something else you know for sure: economy is shrinking in the third quarter, recession, companies are closing down one by one. Are you sure this is the moment when you have to open the gates wide to migrant workers? I have read the impact assessment of the proposal on the employment of migrant workers in Hungary. Even this impact assessment recognises that there would be a labour reserve at home, but it is not where the jobs are or if it is there, it is not properly trained. If the government can see that's the problem, why don't you try to fix it? Why not help a person who can only work if he moves far away from his original home? And I'm not calling for the construction of workers' shelters, because it's not a good solution for people with families. We need support for housing and social housing. It seems that the new workers' hostels so far have been built mainly for migrant workers, who, according to the draft legislation, cannot bring their families with them, so that workers' hostels can meet them. Is this the new Hungarian economic model? Did you force me to fill jobs with poorly paid workers from abroad? This is the idea of a government that recently settled the country with the following:. If you come to Hungary, you cannot take the work of Hungarians! What's the matter with you? And what about those who live as unemployed in areas of the country, such as Nógrád, where there are not enough jobs? I'll tell you what we had to do instead of flooding Hungary with guest workers. First of all, the Hungarian worker must be valued. Those who receive enough wages and decent working conditions at home do not go abroad to work and do not have to be replaced by migrant workers. Secondly, at last have sufficient resources for training and retraining. Thirdly, at last have sufficient resources for Community transport. Many people don't work because from where they live, they can't get into jobs through broken public transport, there's no bus service, there's no schedule. Who believes it's cheaper to bring in workers from other continents than to concentrate a little on the schedule or give support for the tour? Fourthly, as I have already said, at last have sufficient resources to support housing. Sometimes there's work in the other part of the country, but it's still a lot closer than Mongolia or Pakistan. Don't support the import of foreign labour, but help those who could work to solve remote housing. You have now confirmed at word level that my thinking process is correct. It is time to put the interests of Hungarian workers and Hungarian people into practice, because this is the real goal that we are all empowered to pursue. This is not difficult, it is only a matter of will, it is only a question of whether the Hungarian government wants to support difficult Hungarian families or whether it is interested in the use of the cheapest possible workforce. Thank you. [[Dr. Zsolt Molnár applauds.]]
u2023-05-24-100	Thank you very much, Congressman Sándor Berki. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Molnár in a 15-minute time frame, MSZP. [[16.40]]
u2023-05-24-101	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr. President. In view of the large number of interested parties, we are talking about a particularly important issue, and it is very good that there are so many of us in the Parliament. [[Defiance.]] The Hungarian Government submitted this proposal to the Parliament on 16 April, the bill on the employment of migrant workers in Hungary. As usual, the deadline for submission around midnight reflected a bad practice that was regularized, and we are not surprised. As described in the bill, Hungary intends to grant migrant workers the right of entry and stay for more than 90 days for work within 180 days, as set out in this bill, if their employment is carried out for consideration for the benefit or control of the employer. In parallel, the bill categorically states that guest workers' family members are no longer welcome guests in Hungary. It's a bit of a picture of modern slavery. I think that the message has been expressed quite simply by the government: migrant workers who are able to work and who want to work can stay in the country for up to three years, but a residence permit can no longer be issued for family members by reference to family relations. This approach is an interesting approach from a government that calls itself especially Christian and family-friendly. Ladies and gentlemen, It seems that, as described in the bill, the government has admitted that Hungary is currently unable to provide a sufficient number of qualified workers to the economy. This is why the government makes it easier to employ workers from third countries such as China, the Philippines, India, Indonesia or Mongolia. It is also acknowledged that domestic employment policy, as it stands, is not able to keep the still existing low labour reserves in working order. The structural unemployment that has existed for decades has not been eliminated by the government over the past 13 years, and the domestic vocational and adult education system still cannot provide the economy with a sufficiently qualified workforce. These factors represent a serious competitive disadvantage for Hungary compared with the EU Member States and neighbouring countries. We should not forget, however, that the Hungarian government has already reduced the working conditions of people from abroad to address the long-standing labour shortage. Priority developments, employers and temporary agency workers can already be introduced by a minimum authorisation procedure in the thousands of cases. Such a priority investment is, for example, Paks II. expansion of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. If it were still assumed that the interests of NER's companies would be significantly reflected in these two large investments or similar developments, then it would become very interesting to know who, in the future, would benefit from the employment of foreigners from third countries, i.e. who might be modern slave owners. The bill also defines, among the definitions, who qualifies as a preferential employer, employer and rated lender. This means that it is a preferential employer who has a strategic partnership agreement with the government or an employer that carries out a priority investment in the national economy, or an employer that has a partnership agreement under a priority export partnership programme. The increase in the number of foreign workers is already visible in statistics. According to KSH data, the number of foreign workers in Hungary increased by 14 percent to 81 thousand last year. Most of the approximately 26 thousand workers came from Ukraine. 8,000 people from both Romania and Slovakia work in Hungary and more than 5,000 people from China. The number of migrant workers from the Philippines and India has also increased, and although it is far below the number of workers from Europe, 182 percent from the Philippines and one third from India and Mongolia came last year than in 2021. It is becoming increasingly clear that the government cannot replace the shortage of workers from neighbouring countries in the domestic labour market, which is why the Asian and Far Eastern workforce is needed. The reason for this is one of the possible answers to the fact that Hungarian wages in Europe are quite low, so whoever can do it goes to work not in Hungary, but in other countries of Europe. As a result of this sad process, Indian, Mongolian, Indonesian, Filipino workers appear in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, If we look around a little among the economic players, we also ask employers or trade unions how they see the current labour market situation in Hungary, then that opinion does not always coincide with the government's opinion. According to the signals of companies operating in Hungary, the Hungarian labour force who joined them is often unfit for trained work, so they can rely more and more on migrant workers from abroad. One example is the eastern part, where the national average is double the unemployment rate, but the companies that operate here mostly do not teach the labour force available in the region, but hire foreign migrant workers. On the other hand, the government claims that the still existing, low number of domestic labour reserves can be kept in work, which does not fully cover reality. According to the view of the trade unions, companies put migrant workers first over Hungarian workers, because Hungarians are easier to change jobs. Interested people find that the majority of third-country workers are located in the textile, chemical and service sectors. The Vasas Trade Union Association estimates that currently approximately 8,000 workers in the Philippines can work in Hungary. According to the Vasas Trade Union, there are automotive factories where there are no new Hungarian workers, and there are hundreds of workers coming to the factory soon. The bill submitted to Parliament also states that the government is committed to preserving the workplace of Hungarian workers. This is a very important and correct effort for the government, but if that is the case, why do we need more and more foreign migrant workers for Hungary, instead of bringing the remaining small workforce reserves into a working position and providing them with marketable knowledge that they can find their way into the primary labour market? In addition to the above, it is not possible to go without saying that the adoption of the bill will give rise to the possibility of issuing a number of new regulations, which will further reduce the weight and control role of the legislation, namely Parliament, in Hungary. The government is empowered to lay down detailed rules on the entry, residence and employment of migrant workers in Hungary in a regulation. The Minister for Employment Policy, in agreement with the Minister responsible for the employment of third-country nationals in Hungary, determines the total number of migrant workers employed in Hungary annually, the employment in which migrant workers cannot be employed in Hungary, and the list of non-Hungarian neighbouring countries from which migrant workers are employed in accordance with this Act, and the Minister for Foreign Police and Asylum, in agreement with the Minister for Employment of Third-country nationals in Hungary, may determine the number of guest workers in non-EEA countries who may be employed in Hungary on an annual basis. It is also clear from the above-mentioned regulation that the establishment of rules on the employment of foreign workers in Hungary would, in the view of the government, be more of an economic and foreign minister and less of an integral part of the domestic employment policy. Thank you so much for the opportunity to tell you. I hope that some of these will at least be included in the minutes as a lesson. Thank you for the floor. [[Alexander Berki applauds.]]
u2023-05-24-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Then I will give the floor to the Secretary of State if you wish to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2023-05-24-103	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Before there are detailed answers or comments, let us take two steps back, because I often have the feeling that a lot of people here have given up on what their party expects of them, but on what matters, virtually nothing or hardly anything has been said. [[16.50]] What is this law about? If they noticed, they felt that at the beginning of the expo, it seemed like I wasn't talking about the law, but about how we would know the rest of the workforce, making the rest of the labour force within the borders fit to become employed. Now, with regard to the socialists, I do not really want to respond to the part of the unemployment rate, the level of employment that they could not cope with in their time. Thank God we're talking about, it's a very positive task. It is a big task, but it is a positive task, when we talk about how, because of the firmness of the labour market and because of future investments, we must also think in a regulated way within a proper framework of how we can not only bring investment here but also keep it here. So the main message remains clear that as long as there is a Hungarian employee, we want to fill the vacancies with them. Now, there may be a real debate here, whether there are, how many, where there are, why there are structural problems in the system, how there are 50 turning-outs in the system, but when I put it out there, he can't do five jobs because he hasn't seen a turning bench in 30 years. I don't want to go into those details, but this is the Hungarian reality. So if we want to deal with this issue in substance, then we also need to take reality into consideration. So our firm statement remains that we need to use all the tools and energies in the next period, and I am also talking on the way home, about the labour organisation, how to find people who can, want and can work; if necessary, by training, re-training, if necessary, with housing support. I would like to point out to the Member how this works, there is housing support at the moment, we know about it, and thank God, it is being used by many people, and we even support travel costs. So a significant part of those suggestions found open ears in such a way that they are practically alive today. So we will have a very, very important and difficult task of finding that potential workforce reserve. Now, this is mathematically 300,000 people we're talking about. I put it this way because, in reality, those who are ready and able to work are certainly less than that. Our job is to find them, and by all means to help them get to work, as I just said. Now, if that is not possible, and the question is whether the investment should arrive in Hungary or take our competitors away, because there should be no doubt that both in terms of investment and in terms of labour force, there is already and will be a killing competition in relation to third country labour force in the coming years. Don't doubt that. See what the Austrians are doing, see what the Germans are doing, make their system easier, so they can meet the needs of the economy. Our important task is to do this within a framework that protects Hungarian jobs without otherwise hindering investment or economic growth. That's the cross section. Now, if we go into this legislation, there are legislation in place for third countries at the moment. Here we can see that the Hungarian labour market is still protected by a quota system, and this quota seems to have been the method of calculation for many years that 50-60-70,000 per month of job vacancies reported in the previous year is usually used in general. I report that we have not been able to upload this quota in quotes in almost a year, so that is far beyond the value that we would otherwise have had to upload or upload with a third country. But there are a lot of loopholes in the current system that are not included in the quota, so it doesn't count in Hungarian. In this we want to create a clear, clear and transparent legislative framework. So the law on third countries will continue to live and there will be a law on migrant workers, which basically means that those who fall under this scope will be able to work under a lighter procedure; which is a very important issue in terms of investment if we want to remain competitive. The question here is, is this going to come in hand-to-hand, so we're gonna give you an invitation or they're gonna bang on our doorstep. Between the two, I think there's a significant difference. During the next period, we need to focus most on this area. Change the legislation on migrant workers itself. At the moment, there are 15 countries from which they can come. If it's from the employees who are in the system right now, if they're a strategic partner, and if they come into those professions that aren't banned, welcome! There are so many differences from the current legislation that so far the professions have been around 138 that they could come into. Now we're going to identify the professions they can't come to. Do you feel the significant difference between the two? So obviously this will be an important issue to protect the Hungarian labour market from this point of view, but we keep my turning problem in parentheses in our minds, because it can also be an exciting issue. So what I can tell you is that this law constitutes a legislative framework that clearly protects Hungarian jobs and Hungarian workers. Now, in the details, Mr Gergely Arató, yes, on the one hand he has resigned what he had to resign. So I've been trying to look for the professional questions that I can even respond to at some level. With regard to wages, he indicated that foreigners, third - country nationals, or migrant workers were suppressing wages. I would like to say with absolute determination that wages are not being pushed down by foreign workers. They can't press it because it's not allowed by law, and we also have the means to check and examine this if necessary. So this kind of problem can't come up! It has been said that the employment of a migrant worker may cost more than that of a domestic worker. Yeah. I mean, you have to travel here, you have to provide accommodation, and the rest, and all that, no doubt, is a fact. And that is why the big companies, but even the smaller ones, with whom we have been talking quite often lately, clearly say that they are thinking about Hungarian workers in the longer term, so in a few years, even if they want to deal with their acute problem with migrant workers now, they are definitely thinking about Hungarian workers. And that's what we're going to do, that's the kind of demand that we're going to be able to satisfy in the coming years. So in Hungarian: wage claims are simply not true from this point of view; but next week, if I remember correctly, there will be a parliamentary debate on wages. I don't want to prevent it, we'll tell you the most important thing there. Inactive involvement, what the congressman mentioned. You know, the thing is, in your time, the inactive were the non-existent category. They didn't show up anywhere in any register. They had no idea how many hundreds of thousands of people... [[Gergely Harvestó: In 2010, you guys dropped them off.]] Yes, that's exactly right, Congressman, that's exactly right. Now, if you observe, you can see that employment and unemployment have increased in Hungary at the same time over the past period, and this may be a surprising figure for an average person, why this is happening. It's because the inactive are coming into the system, because from an economic point of view it's very good, because those we haven't seen before, we can now see and have the opportunity to help them. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát raised several points, did he not? I would like to refer here only to what you left up there as a question or part of it. A lot has been said here. [[17.00]] One of the most important things was that the statement was just a statement, or there was some other content behind it. The congressman, if he reads it, will see that there is another important moment there, namely the announcement of labour demand. It's an important step. So you can't submit your application in Hungarian until you have indicated this to the competent office, and this is not the administrative procedure you have read in the law, but the competent office will have the opportunity to see in a zero circle what is the reality of the statement that he otherwise issues. Vane may be a Hungarian labour force, and if there is one, he may even start the placement. Okay? So what I can tell you is that I have good news, because it's in this bill. It was also mentioned here that it would be good to determine the minimum amount of money per sector that would be worth fixing, and here he said that Hungarians should be protected. However, I would like to point out that every year, including this year, we decided on this year's minimum wage and a guaranteed minimum wage in December, so that we reached an agreement with the VKF within two weeks from 1st of December to 15th of December. It wasn't decided by the government, it was the negotiating partners who decided, and as the past period shows, I think it is wise, because we predicted or set wage increases between 14 and 16 per cent of the minimum wage and guaranteed wage, and it was here that, well, without productivity growth, wages could not be increased. I couldn't agree more. So that there is a task in the field of productivity, agriculture, I could say sectors where we have very serious delays, of course, this is a serious challenge. It didn't just happen, it's been years, it's been decades, what we really have to take into account. When a minimum wage negotiation goes on, we hit about three columns: expected GDP growth next year, inflation story, and then what about productivity growth. Because that's what the increase in wages can feed on, because if it doesn't feed on it, the system will collapse. I think we got a good shot, and as you can see, right now, based on the latest data from the KSH, it's moving in between 15 and 17 percent, because these wages are pushing the bands above, they're moving around in this lane. Unfortunately, there is no doubt that high inflation is currently eating these wage increases, so what is most important to us is not the increase in the minimum wage, but the drastic decline in inflation, which can be addressed. This is where the quota facility was found. Obviously, we will decide in detail what the total quota within which we can talk about what the migrant worker quota will be, and if you have read it carefully, there is another figure, according to the authority of the Ministry of Interior, how many workers can arrive from a given country. And you obviously feel it, too, and you know that this is important in a number of ways, not just from a job point of view. The fact that you mentioned here that you should employ at least 90% of Hungarians, and then you gave an example on the TAB, if I remember correctly, that there are 400 people there. I suggest you ask the employer why he decided to do this. So in such a situation in the labour market, why did you decide to do everything you could to try to upload it with Hungarians, what the result was, and why did you have to hire a third country? Is it because he liked it better? The story costs more, I have no doubt about it, so there are labour market things behind it that are worth exploring. So I don't see the reality of saying a percentage here, because the most important thing for us is that investments come here and be made. Maybe 95's too much, maybe 80's too little. So if this is recorded in a taxatically, it may not solve our problems in the longer term. Demographic problems: I agree, of course. The last time I was here a few years ago, there was already a trend, which is what the vast majority of Europe, the developed countries, are struggling with. So, in practice, I do not reveal secrets in Hungary, it is safe to look into them, and the data from other sources of data are clearly visible to the active ages by 2030, so there will be about 300 thousand fewer employees in terms of employment age. I'll say it again: 300,000! That's an awful big deal. When we talk, we argue about how to do it, we don't have to have it, we have to have these numbers in our head because we have achieved a lot of results in recent years through the government's family support system, but if the number of women in their parents' age is falling, and we're taking them from 1,47 to 1.53, that's statistically true in families, and we need 2.2 to reproduce ourselves, that's a real challenge. We are not discussing the matter of this law right now, but I just wanted to tell you that we feel, that it will be a very heavy burden in the next period, or that it already is. Member István Szabadi of the Hungarian Movement began by saying that there is a shortage of labour due to the failed economic growth. Well, I wish many of these failed economic growth to all the countries. I think this is a very good thing when we talk about a shortage of workers and not a surplus of workers, and what we can do with 200-300-400 thousand people. He also mentioned the problem of public employment here. I would like to point out that around 2010-11-12 there were nearly 300,000 public workers, because there was such a labour market situation, and the then government asked the question of giving aid or working. And the answer to the question was clear: give us a job, and if the competitive sphere is not able to give so many people jobs, then we will solve this temporarily with public employment. At the moment, there are 60,000 to 70,000 people in the same system because the economy has absorbed the others. So I think you should be proud of that rather than raise it as a problem. How many is that? I've heard figures here again: foreign work, how many are there, so how is it now? I would like to indicate and confirm that there are about 80,000 foreign workers in Hungary at the moment, the vast majority of whom are Ukrainian and Serbian citizens from neighbouring countries. The majority of the finals! And if it has already been said from fellow Members, this faction, perhaps even from the opposition side, is that I am not saying a direct figure in terms of proportions in Poland, because there is no comparison of a Polish labour market with a Hungarian 6 percent, the Czech 3.6, the Hungarian 1.7. So I would like to ask you to put this story in its place, the percentage of people in active age who are currently working in third countries. From the Dialogue, Mr Sándor Berki has just said that in Nógrád, the Congressman is not here, but then I will pretend to be here and answer it, so I am from Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, I can give you similar data. But at the time, around 2010, I was supposed to multiply that by three, because it was over 20 percent, and then it got stuck for a long time around 10-15-18 percent. So, of course, the Nógrádians also have this problem, and we know the mobility of the Hungarian workforce, which is close to zero. So the question is what? The question is, how can we also give jobs to people whose mobility is something like that? Well, we know, honourable Members, that we are taking the job where the working hand is available. It's a simple story. We've been fighting this for years, and I remember about 10-12, when we were negotiating with prospective investors, they didn't want to hear about this part of the Danube. Any device, any system, no! I'm really glad that's not the case right now. [[17.10]] It must be taken to where the working hand is available and the reserve of the countryside must be strengthened, but it must be kept stable again. I have already mentioned that rent, housing allowance, travel expenses, etc. are supported. It was also mentioned here in connection with the working quarters that it is full of guest workers. I would like to point out that in this way, in this form, this is not true. Thank God, I usually go, cut tape, and I see that there's a demand for it, and all those who made the investment, and those who could deal with their housing problems. Overall, I think that this is a good bill, a necessary bill, because without it, we would govern ourselves in a situation in the labour market that we could not or could hardly manage later. I would like to ask the honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, to support this draft with full chest width. Of course, if there is a proposal to be considered, to be taken to heart, it is obviously welcome from any faction. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity.
u2023-05-24-104	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Sándor Czomba. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's agenda. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First, I will give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member Jobbik:. How much longer? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-05-24-105	Mr President, Dear House, Not only was the amendment of the building law mentioned this week, but the issue of wages and emigration involving young Hungarians has also been mentioned many times. Here I have shared the figure with the House several times, as regards how few newly built apartments and how few new apartments we see in the system. Our last data is about the first three quarters of 2022: 13 617 new apartments have been discovered here. This is, of course, more than 7 percent more than in the previous period, but even if we get the whole year's data, we can see that at best, only the 200-year-old exchange of the entire property stock is possible by the incredibly low figure referring to a dehydrated economy. Since the first time I suggested the development of a program with a public-based housing concept, it is increasingly difficult to start this possible every year, as labour costs have clearly increased compared to that, but the cost of raw materials is even more. What we see is that more Hungarian young people migrated typically out of necessity to Western European countries, and every single market situation is against the possibility of developing such a system inexpensive and efficient terms. So the best thing would have been to start eight or nine years ago when we put this on the table, but it wouldn't be too late now. At the same time, I would like to point out that several state ministers mentioned the CSOK, the baby shower and various forms of family support, which I am basically supporting separately. I have two problems with them: on the one hand, the penalty-type items and taxes, in the event that the intentions previously undertaken and which were not successful with the best intentions can be found in this system, and, on the other hand, I see that these forms of family support, although demographic breakthroughs have not typically been brought up from the upper middle class. It's like a house loan, where you have to have a net salary of 400 000 in order to acquire a real estate, say, in Budapest, it's about 60 square meters or above, but it doesn't run to a panel housing, but it usually runs to a panel. What we can see is that those who are looking for under this, and unfortunately there is quite a large number among the weaker earners in Hungary, it is certainly excluded from this possibility, and since they have also reduced the state support for housing savings, those who have previously been able to collect a bank loan, a CSOK, with such a supported form, a few million forints with state support, now feel absolutely hopeless to obtain an independent apartment. There's a number of statistics coming up. According to one of the last ones, more than one third of Hungarian youths find it completely unlikely that they will get their own property. The payment of unrealistically high rent prices is typically one way, but unfortunately, the other is to try their luck in Western Europe, and if they find a mate there, there are children born, there they start to socialize, there is a very rare case where they will be a Hungarian family who has moved back here and who will live forever. So let's face it, unfortunately, that's not the typical one yet. Of course, there are people who move back after a few years, and then maybe they'll come up again, but the thing is, that's not the goal, it's a public housing program. In order to see any of this, five to ten thousand apartments per year would have to be handed over, which are specifically new builders and would have to be simultaneously surveyed of the 550,000 vacant housing stock. If we can restore and bring only one tenth of this into the system as a rental, then we have made a huge move, and fewer Hungarians have to emigrate under duress. For today's points of debate, I would like to note that if fewer people migrate, the government will also import fewer third-world migrant workers organised in Hungary. So everything is connected with everything, but it also needs to be seen that in order to be able to live in Hungary in the long term, young people who are self-confident and have the backbone of strong citizenship would also need a draft targeting normal wages, because it is possible to pay a bank loan from a salary level close to the European level, to acquire an independent property, but this does not take away the responsibility of the government to deal with the hundreds of thousands of people who can only benefit from a rental program. Therefore, we are waiting for them by putting the professional concept of the program on the table, we aim for their future in order to ensure that prosperity in the homeland is available to all Hungarians, not just a fantasy. Thank you for your attention.
u2023-05-24-106	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. The speaker after the next agenda is not in the Chamber, so I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Bartos, Fidesz.
u2023-05-24-107	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, When Pope Francis visited Hungary at the end of April, he called Budapest a city of history, bridges and saints. Speaking of bridges connecting different realities, he encouraged us to reflect on the importance of unity, which, at the same time, does not mean uniformness. The construction of the bridge is certainly not far from the Holy Father, since the titles of the Roman pope include, among other things, Pontifex Maximus, which is the supreme bridge builder in literal translation, and bridges are needed. Csaba Kőrösi, president of the 77th session of the United Nations General Assembly, presented in detail on the Commission's publication on 31 March a set of challenges that have been and have been said to humanity, and we also find that we are not doing well in the area of resolution: we are far below our expectations of achieving the sustainable development goals set by the UN and agreed by the Member States. New solutions are needed, if you like, to find new bridges where we can achieve our vital goals. I would like to present such an excellent bridge to this House, and this is nothing more than the creation protection-based approach to the sustainability issue. Creative protection-based approach is in some way reflected in the teaching of the majority of world religions. It goes beyond technology-based thinking, creating a moral and value-based approach to finding answers. It does not only encourage cooperation, but it can build on the colloquial approach of religions to the protection of creation and even encourage action by strengthening a positive, solution-based approach. This is very necessary, because, by analysing the challenges surrounding us, we very often focus on the problems that feed on fear, but fear is against action and creativity. Creative protection, on the other hand, knows and proclaims man's dignity and place in the world's cultivation and preservation, and, on the basis of a higher existing aspect of life, can move beyond a desperation-promoting reality, encouraging a collective action across cultures based on the common approach of religions. [[17.20]] Thank you very much for the start of this bridge construction at university level. On May 18, the National University of Public Service, József Eötvös Research Centre, Institute of Religion and Society, and the Pázmány Péter Catholic University, Saint II. János Pál Pápa Research Centre The Institute for the Protection of Creation organised a conference on the protection of nature and climate in ecclesiastical teachings Interreligious dialogue in the service of creation protection. At the conference, the head of the Dicasterium of the Holy See of Apostoli, responsible for the promotion of integrated human development, spoke. The lecturer at Sigmund Freud University in Vienna talked about the ecological activity of Muslim communities. Another speaker brought to us sections of the Koran and the Bible concerning creation protection and compared them. A rabbi spoke about the appearance of creation protection in Orthodox Jewish teachings. Among the lectures were the Roman Catholic Church's approach to the protection of creation, as well as the Orthodox Church's position. Beyond the ecclesiastical side, the representatives of science were also spoken, and by the end of the day a network of knowledge and solutions was drawn up, the elements of which mutually reinforce each other, offering new and effective tools for achieving the goals of sustainability and protection of creation. Gergely Deli, rector of the National University of Public Service; Krisztián Vincze, deputy rector of Pázmány Péter Catholic University; Gydvéghiné Pulay Brigitta, colleague of the Institute for the Protection of Creation; Lóránd Ujházi, head of the Institute for Religious and Society at the National University of Public Service, as well as the Institute for the Protection of Creation at Pázmány Péter Catholic University, and all organizers to undertake this mission and build new bridges. I wish you many blessings in your service. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause.]]
u2023-05-24-108	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Mónika Bartos. Member András Fekete-Győr, representative of Momentum, also applied for a post-scheduled speech:. When are the ambulances coming? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-05-24-109	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We need to talk about the responsibility of the Orbán regime in connection with János Gálvölgyi and the National Rescue Service. Recent news is that János Gálvölgyi can return to his family after two weeks, and, as I understand it, needs a few more weeks of rehabilitation treatment. So I also wish him a great deal of strength, health and speedy recovery from here in Parliament. As for the Orbán system: a state works when certain basic conditions are met, so water flows from the tap, for example, if I open it, or if there is light, if I turn on the lights in the room, if there is a school, if there is a hospital, if there is a job, if the police work, if the fire department works, and if someone gets sick, and they do it in time. That doesn't seem like such a big deal to me. And it's not Scandinavian welfare yet, it's just that we're not a failed state that can't perform its basic functions. Hungary has been governed by you for 13 years; Fidesz MEPs here in Parliament and Fidesz propaganda tell us every day, week after week how cleverly they are, how successful they are. However, the experience is a little different if we go to the store, for example, to buy food, and we face the fact that these foods cost twice or three times as much as they did last year or the year before. And we also face this good governance when, for example, we have to go to the hospital or when we are sick and we have to call an ambulance. In recent weeks, a number of incredible cases have come to light that indicate that the state you have captured is not working well, and in some cases it does not work. A woman in Budaörs had to wait 52 minutes for an ambulance last year, and she bled to death. János Gálvölgyi's theatre artist did not get to the ambulance in 40 minutes, his daughters eventually had to take him to the hospital and then needed intensive care. We momentaries have been signaling here in Parliament for years, and outside Parliament, that health care is on the brink of collapse. Paramedics don't get enough money, they don't have enough people, they don't have the right tools, paramedics are just underpaid. So I'm asking you, what else needs to happen in order for the government, the Orbán government, to notice these evidences. How many Vodafones will be bought with public money to Orbán companies, how many billionaires will they give to Viktor Orbán's stooges, how many overpriced power plants will they buy from Lőrinc Mészáros for public money before the paramedics receive the money to have enough men? This is the question that many hundreds of thousands, millions of Hungarians expect from you. And it's not just personal mistakes, and it's very important to point out that the problem is systemic: overworked, underpaid people are working in the ambulance service, who are obviously going to make more mistakes. Will János Gálvölgyi's almost tragedy be enough for the Fidesz government to do something about the paramedics? Or do we have to wait for a Fidesz politician to come out of the ambulance one day and maybe start dealing with this case? If the government continues to try to solve health problems by cornering it, in case it is less visible, people will die in Hungary. If Fidesz is busy getting as many private health centers as possible for the related business, obviously they will get a lot of profit from it, there will be castles, yachts, parties, only one thing: more saved Hungarian lives. In the Momentum, we want to create a welfare state, a welfare Hungary, in which education, health and job creation are priorities. Hospitals, schools, jobs are these priorities. Just like saving lives in an ambulance. I think this is in line with the opinion and will of the majority of Hungarians, and I do not think that crowds would like to capitalise first on the 4iG led by Gellért Jászai, Viktor Orbán's man or Duna Asphalt as the National Rescue Service. Please listen to these people, listen to the Hungarian people. Perhaps your investment will pay off. If you or your relatives get sick, we won't have to wait an hour before the ambulance arrives. Thank you for listening.
u2023-05-24-110	Thank you very much, Congressman András Fekete-Győr. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its meeting next Tuesday at 11 a.m. Meeting day's closed. I wish you a restful evening.
