u2023-07-04-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 2nd day of the 2nd extraordinary session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and Dániel Z. Carpathian notaries will be here to help me. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, has applied for a pre-meeting speech on our current affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-07-04-1	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Orbán gave an interview to Bild about a week ago, and in the interview, I think that he clearly, undeniably crossed a red line. I think it's worth quoting here from this outrageous interview. Ist er für Sie ein Kriegsverbrecher? For you, Putin is a war criminal? - Nein. - Nein. Für mich nicht. No, not for me. Your Prime Minister has replied. I think that we have crossed a line, a red line, because it is not so difficult to determine why, according to Viktor Orbán, Putin is not a war criminal, and it is not so difficult to determine whether Putin is a war criminal. This is both a moral and a legal issue, and I recall that your Prime Minister has a legal degree, and, as the more civilised half of Europe, Hungary has recognised and ratified the legal passages on war crimes, crimes against humanity. It is in Hungarian law that anyone committing manslaughter as part of a comprehensive or systematic attack on the population and allowing me to quote, not literally, but, on a list level, other people to be sexually assaulted or to be tolerated, can be identified on the basis of political, national, ethnic, cultural, religious, gender or other criteria, or is deprived of their fundamental rights as a result of belonging to the group, is committing a war crime, committing a crime against humanity. The Btk. 145. Paragraph 2 of this Article states that he shall be liable in the same way as the perpetrator of the offence provided for in this Chapter, who, in order to prevent the criminal offence being committed, who knew that his subordinate committed or prepared such a crime, or who knowingly ignored the circumstances clearly suggesting it, and who has not taken all the necessary and justified measures within his jurisdiction to prevent him from committing the offence, has not filed a report without delay after having been informed of the offence. I think that if we consider these passages, which are not only legal definitions in Hungary, but also in international law, we can clearly say that, and as a lawyer, your Prime Minister has a duty to know that this has happened. And when he denies this and relativizes war crimes, then, I think the greatest damage is to Hungary and Hungary's judgment. I think that everyone in Hungary is right to be ashamed today that this sentence could be said, and I think that we cannot go by without saying a word, and we cannot go on until we are separated from the Prime Minister of Hungary, your Prime Minister, because I think that everyone should be in front of you, as in the Bucsa square, on the streets of Bucsa, dead mothers, dead fathers, grandmothers, children. I think that if you leave without saying anything, and you don't think this is a war crime, you should look deep into yourselves. We need to make it clear that the massacre in Bucsa and the Russian aggression have committed a series of war crimes, and I think that as long as you relativity this, you will not face reality. I think that in 1943, during World War II, Hitler could and had to be declared a war criminal, and I think it can be said now. It may be said that it is not in our interest to say it, but the fact is that it is possible to politicalise and politicalize along the interests and values, and that the policy that does not carry values cannot be implemented, cannot be undertaken, and cannot be continued. I think that you owe an apology to the world's public opinion, to Hungary and to the Parliament, because Hungary's authority, the authority of Parliament, is severely destroyed by the fact that this incriminated sentence could have been spoken in the international press. Thank you very much.
u2023-07-04-2	Thank you very much, Congressman Csárdi. Tamás Menczer, State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, will respond to what has been said on behalf of the Government.
u2023-07-04-3	[[He starts his speech without making a sound and then inserts his card.]] I'm sorry, I was the one... so one more time. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Therefore, I would like to stress with a voice that we have not learned from you, either in Hungarian or in German, what Viktor Orbán said. But let me start with what you've finished, if I've been paying attention to how you can be politicalised along the lines of interests and values. For us, as we have always said, the most important thing is the interests of the Hungarians, and if you like it, the most important value for us is that we represent the interests of the Hungarians, and what is important to the Hungarians, what they think is important, we represent, we achieve and protect. Honourable Congressman, What did Viktor Orbán say in the Bild interview you tried to quote? For example, I am interested in Hungary, and what happens between Russia and Ukraine is bad for Hungarians and is dangerous for Hungarians. This is what is important to us, honourable Member. [[9.10]] You call this interest or value, I think, both are true, what is important to the Hungarian people is important to us. We are interested in Hungary. What else did Viktor Orbán say in this Bild interview? From the beginning, we are on the side of peace, and I have represented that the conflict should not be made a global war, but that it should be isolated and that the management of the processes should be given back to politicians and diplomats. This is what we, honourable Member, represent, is the position of the Hungarian Government. [[Antal Csárdi intervenes.]] You had the opportunity in five minutes, please give me this opportunity. So we are on the side of peace. And the Hungarian Prime Minister made it clear that from the beginning he is on the side of peace, the conflict must be contained, and everything must be done to prevent this regional conflict from turning into a global military conflict, or even a third world war. What else did the Hungarian Prime Minister say, honourable Member? If negotiations had taken place from the beginning, not so many people would have died and not destroyed the country. But diplomacy failed, the army dictates what happens now, and it has to be taken back, the soldiers have to give back control to diplomats. Orbán spoke only and exclusively about peace, about the immediate ceasefire and the need for peace negotiations. Unfortunately, you reject that. We'll pick up where we left off yesterday. You are pro-war, you want to continue the war, and we want to end the war, because it is in the interests of the Hungarians. If you like, that's the most important thing, peace. And you reject that, honourable Member. What else proves that you're rejecting this? The Hungarian Parliament recently adopted a pro-peace resolution, and you did not support it. Let me quote you from this; the first sentence is: "We express our commitment to peace. You did not support this. We repeatedly condemn Russia's military aggression and recognise Ukraine's right to self-defense. What's the problem with that sentence? You didn't support it. We are talking about sanctions in Brussels, honourable Member. We are also talking, for example, about providing humanitarian aid, of course. We draw attention to the fact that the military conflict has a serious impact on the Hungarian community in Transcarpathia, and many have already given their lives in the war. This is also highlighted in this pro-peace resolution, and you have not supported it. And it is also in this resolution that Hungary will do everything in its power as a full member and sovereign state to promote peace. You have not supported this, honourable Member. This also shows that the government is in favour of peace, and you are in favour of continuing the war. And speaking of President Putin, let me bring you a quote from your boss, not Péter Ungár, Ferenc Gyurcsány. The quote is: After work, President Putin and I were telling stories, as others are doing, telling stories about acquaintances and unknowns, about the past and the past. President Putin's stories with many smiles and laughs, which seemed harsh and hard from the outside, have made us very entertained as well. We have, of course, worked: I will send the relevant ministers to Moscow in the next few weeks to continue negotiations on the gas pipeline and the construction of the logistics centre. When I escorted him down and said good-bye, he hugged me quickly after the handshake, as we do with the majority of European politicians, since we meet them four or five times a year. But that was President Putin's first gesture. It felt good. I quote Ferenc Gyurcsány. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-07-04-4	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Tamás Menczer. Tamás Mellar, representative of the Dialogue, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-07-04-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, We'll vote on the status bill in a few hours, officially known as the teacher's career law. It is the law that culminates in the destruction that the Orbán governments have done in education in 12 years. Even if I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary and members of the Government, not to vote for this bad law, you will certainly vote for it, because our governor has given you this order. And in such a case, you never make mistakes, always obey higher orders, and press yes, whatever that means. Sober reasoning doesn't get us anywhere, we can't influence you. I've experienced this for the last five years. So I will no longer speak to you, not to you, but to my fellow citizens, especially to the young Hungarians. I hope my words reach many on different channels. First of all, I ask my fellow citizens to remember the amok run that the Orbán governments have done here after 2010 by drastically reducing budgetary resources for education, through nationalisation of municipal schools, through violent centralisation, from systematic abolition of the autonomy of teachers and students, through the displacement of advocacy organisations, to the abolition of civil servant status, to mention only a few of the damages. Today we need to look with a magnifying glass for international surveys where the perception of the Hungarian education system has not deteriorated much. Secondly, I ask my fellow citizens to remember the main goal that the largest Hungarian, István Széchenyi, has set:. The power of a nation lies in the multitude of educated heads of people. If this madness comes to an end, in which the Hungarians are trained to work in Western assembly plants, to work for the battery companies and to make them the rightful bed of the great estates of the landlords, because soon it will be over, because this system is not productive, and today they cannot involve external resources to maintain it; so when this amok run is over, this madness, then, my young friends, you must come and restore order, and lead the country into the dead end, back to the main street of history. This requires first and foremost a good education system. The Scandinavian countries have set a good example of how to achieve outstanding competitiveness through high quality education and the development of human capital. No nation was born to servitude, but their masters made them slaves. [[Bence Rétvári: Those who surrender for dollars!]] First and foremost, by blocking the way to gain knowledge from them. Well, don't let him, young friends. Take back what is due to you, the possibility of getting a meaningful, high-quality life. And one of the main elements of this is the free, democratic education system. We must admit that we opposition representatives here in Parliament have failed to protect schools, but I believe that you young people will succeed sooner or later. And I recommend to government representatives the verb of Bible readers recommended this Sunday. I quote: "Let all who did not believe the truth take away their judgment, but delight in unrighteousness. Paul's second letter to the Thessalonians, 1, 12. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-07-04-6	Thank you, Congressman Tamás Mellar. Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, will respond to what has been said on behalf of the Government. [[9.20]]
u2023-07-04-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Let me quote one sentence at the beginning of my speech: no people were born to servitude. You know, it's just the people whose leaders sell themselves to foreigners in the past, maybe in a different way, but now for dollars. If there were a political group that would have made the Hungarians a servant, because instead of representing the interests of the Hungarians, it would have represented the interests of foreigners; if there had been a group that would have made the whole country a servant, because it would not have led the country for the benefit of the Hungarian people, but for the benefit of foreigners, then those who campaigned with foreign money and have been politicalising with foreign money and trying to implement foreign recipes in Hungary since the elections. It is you, honourable Member. A politician whose election campaign has been paid from abroad and has been insured from abroad should not lecture anyone on servitude and freedom, because it has volunteered to make the Hungarian nation a servant of other nations, honourable Member. Today, however, we plan to adopt a law that can improve the quality of Hungarian education. What you would do, we know exactly what you would do. You are also proud to say in the debate on the bill on the new pedagogical career that your programme, your vision, is a 100-point program prepared by the ELTE Education Policy Committee for you. If someone reads into this, they see one thing: you would pick up where you left off in 2010. They learned nothing and forgot nothing. Point 7 of this says that the schools would be closed and the teachers there would be thrown to the wind. That's what they did before 2010 when they closed the schools in 381 places and dismissed 15,000 teachers. In point 5, it is described that compulsory kindergartening is abolished from the age of three. You were just talking about helping break-ups the most. Abolition of compulsory preschooling from the age of three will release the hands of the detachers! And that's in your fifth point. Church schools are also attacked at several points, including point 8. From the admissions system to the criticism of the church school, everything is said in your 100-point program. Students who go to church school are, in your eyes, second-rate students, and you would discriminate against them. [[Noise, interruptions.]] In point 12, it is described that instead of a patriotic curriculum, a gender is required in the curriculum. Instead of being a patriot, I need gender education. They didn't do it any other way under their own government. At that time, the preparation of NAT was organized for the Eötvös József Free Pedagogical Society, and that, no, this organization received support from György Soros. They had him write the NAT. And that's what's in your hundred points. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] It is written for a transitional period in paragraph 17; we do not know what it means to suspend the content regulators, in Hungarian, they would teach the subject they want, and they would not teach the subject they do not want. This is your program. It was referred to here. In point 49, it is described that textbook provision would be re-marketed. What was it when it was a market-based textbook supply? The cost of textbook packages increased by 71 percent, because profit was the primary. And you're going to write down that you're going to bring this part back. In point 54, of course, there is the introduction of LGBT-sensitising programmes at school, and in point 55, they even write down that they would adopt a gender-based code of ethics for schools. In point 88, they would announce a centralised school supervision, which has been under attack since 2012, and point 89, for sure, reiterates the need to market the education system. That's your hundred points, Your Honour. On the other hand, we have tabled a bill that provides teachers with a new, independent career to raise their social prestige. This bill creates the possibility of a wage increase several times, because it also provides the possibility of a high wage increase of 75 per cent, so that the average salary of teachers will be 800 thousand forints by 2025. This is what you are obstructing in Brussels with both hands, asking Brussels every week for new conditions so as not to pay the Hungarian teacher's wages. Teachers' freedom increases from 46 days to 50 days, and according to the previous claim not to be in the same band, not in the same interval, the weekly compulsory teaching hours of teachers are now 22-26, which is proposed to be fixed 24 hours per week. So you have to give 24 lessons for a teacher a week, and what you're working on over there is the rules of overwork. With this, a very important previous demand will be met by this bill, which you do not support. It's all about performance wages. Those who care more about children, who provide more quality education, will also have more wages and more quality wages. If you vote against the bill, you vote against the future, you vote against the teacher's wage increase and you vote against higher education. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-07-04-8	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári. Dear Parliament, László Toroczkai, leader of the Mi Hazank faction, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2023-07-04-9	Thank you for the floor. I think I understand now why the government is releasing foreign smugglers. I didn't understand it at first, but it seems that the government itself is now a smuggler, because I can't call what the government now wants to do with state aid when they talk about half a million migrant workers and half a million workers missing from Hungary. In fact, not half a million employees are missing from Hungary, but hundreds of thousands of Hungarian compatriots are missing from Hungary, who fled under duress and left Hungary because of the economic situation. They are missing primarily from Hungary, and the national economy, the kind of economic policy that we have been waiting for for at least thirty years here in Hungary, which would be based on Hungarian businesses, Hungarian producers, Hungarian farmers, Hungarian values, Hungarian peculiarities and not on the support of multinationals. What we can see from the government's recent decision and from the law adopted by the governing parties on the import of migrant workers is that the government is actually implementing a population exchange from which it has, in principle, been trying to defend Hungary verbally for years, at least since 2015. We can't call this law anything else. In spite of the fact that this law will help, say, three years from now, these migrant workers, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of migrant workers from those countries, whether Bangladesh or the Philippines, will leave Hungary, because the law will oblige the employer or the migrant worker himself to leave Hungary, you know very well, and you can see throughout Europe that economic immigrants are making a big deal about legislation, making a big deal about the law. Not only do they not leave the countries to which they have been relocated, be it Germany, the Netherlands, Sweden or Austria, but they break the laws, they often break into the country by force, which, unfortunately, you do not prevent by caressing them and then taxiing them back to the other side of the fence, which is a Hungarian territory even for a few meters. So it is not even the government's will to deport illegal migrants in Serbia at the moment, but the Hungarian territory, where they can try again in a few hours, put their ladders on the fence, and they're back here. So you know very well that those who are called economic immigrants and who will not be exempt from this will not comply with this law, will not leave Hungary, but will be left with all kinds of tricks, all sorts of methods, or even simply bypassing the legislation in Hungary, if your economic policy supports it. For 13 years, Fidesz's economic policy seems to be nothing different from the also catastrophic former Balliberal economic policy. The Fidesz government supported the multinationals with three times as much money as the ignominious Balliberal governments. And what we can see is that under the Balliberal governments, the government spent 4.5 million forints on a new job, and now 9.5 million forints. So they spend even more on creating a job, typically multi-scale, typically in global corporations, where they want to bring in migrant workers, replacing Hungary's population. You would have to change the economic policy in order to avoid the need for migrant workers to support the Hungarian economy, Hungarian entrepreneurs and Hungarian farmers; but you do not want to hear their cry for help. There are the beekeepers who are in huge trouble at the moment: 20,000 beekeepers are in trouble, but unfortunately they have not received any substantial help. I have it in my hand, for example, I have already told the Prime Minister that I would like to talk about the problems of the Hungarian water wing organisation. It is also a problem affecting tens of thousands of Hungarians. They feel that they still do not receive the funds. I quote from their letter to the Prime Minister: they say that the biggest problem at present is to compensate for the so-called job time, which cannot be delayed, because the money paid by the government was distributed by integrator companies within their respective circles with the help of the Poultry Product Council. So we continue to see that the government does not help Hungarian society, not the Hungarian economy, but either the multinationals, or the global corporations, or the companies close to the government, and there is a common feature of these global companies or large entrepreneurs close to the government that they all think in migrant workers, and now the government has created a framework law for this. We think it's outrageous, it's the same kind of smuggling that foreign smugglers do at the southern border. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]] [[9.30]]
u2023-07-04-10	Thank you, Mr László Toroczkai. On behalf of the Government, Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, will respond.
u2023-07-04-11	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for giving me the opportunity to highlight this very important issue to the public of Parliament, to the public of this country and to you. In fact, Hungary is in a very new situation, as we have become the country of 4.7 million workers from one million unemployed countries a decade ago, a country whose economy, which has been constantly developing in the past nearly a decade and a half, has been able to make the vast majority of people who have become unemployed in the last decades part of their age group growing, partly through training, adult education and education. This is a completely new situation in Hungary, and at a time when we are not talking about unemployment, but about labour shortages, I think it is not a coincidence that you too, well, from a strong emotional point of view, do not dispute that you are misinterpreting the situation in order to protect the interests of Hungarian workers, but I believe. First, a few words about migration and emigration. In 2010, 1,600 people returned to Hungary, 36 thousand people have returned from Hungary in the last year, so today there are significantly more people who have passed away in recent years than those who are coming back. A total of 195 thousand returned to Hungary between 2010 and 22 people, most of them from Austria, 60,000 from Germany, 50,000 from Germany, and 40,000 from the United Kingdom. The migration balance represents a surplus of about 70,000 people in the last five to six years, so the trend has certainly reversed. Closing sign: I personally do not consider it a tragedy that if even Hungarian students, young Hungarians, Hungarian workers went out to study for a few years, to see the world, to earn money, to gain experience over the past centuries, this has always been the case for them to return afterwards, and to build a family in Hungary, to use their knowledge and money acquired abroad here. We see numerous examples of this in Hungary. The fact that income conditions have improved significantly in Hungary over the last decade clearly also helps the process. The improvement in income conditions was partly achieved by increasing nominal wages, partly by reducing taxes and reducing taxes on income. No one disputes that the past two or three years, a war at our borders, inflation in the close context of the whole of Europe has stopped this dynamic and steady development of income, but it is precisely the past weeks, the experience of months that Hungarian society, the Hungarian government and the Hungarian economy will prevail over inflation, and indeed, significant inflation has shown a noticeable downward trend over the past few months, and today we can safely say that inflation will become one-digit by the last third of the year or by the end of the year. As far as migrant workers are concerned, Mr. Congressman, Mr. Head of the Group, we have passed a law on migrant workers. Two years is the maximum, in no way, of family reunification or any other title, and as the German laws, which had been very strict for decades and the control activities of the Arbeitsamts, have ensured that workers working in Germany had a fixed period of time [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] After the expiry of your contract of employment, you will leave the country, and we will have the same practice in Hungary (The President bells.) And we can make it happen. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-07-04-12	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, János Fónagy. Dear Parliament, The representative of Jobbik, János Bencze, also applied for a speech before the agenda:. What is happening in Hungarian agriculture? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-07-04-13	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, I think you'll answer. As we have already talked about it, the time has come to harvest barley, and farmers have already predicted that they will have problems, since the price of the barley in Hungary simply does not make the return on the investment. Whoever spoke to the farmer personally went to him, we sat down, calculated the minimum loss of 50,000 forints per hectare, but those who invested more had reached 200,000 forints only on the barley. Everyone was pleased when the news came that the Union was willing to compensate for the amount, you sold it in propaganda as a success, and then came the black soup when we calculated what the Union had actually given and what was sold as a success. The EU has given a strong HUF 6 billion, and farmers and I have calculated that if we project this to the 2021 crop average, this means HUF 465 per tonne. That's all, but it's not compensation, it's nothing but peasant blindness. The question of farmers, the Hungarian government's willingness to compensate them, the Hungarian government is willing to recover compensation on those grain traders who basically destroyed Hungarian agriculture in the last year, as Hungarian farmers can no longer survive two years of loss, which will be their second. What do you intend to do with Hungarian agriculture to stay on its feet? The collapse of Hungarian agriculture will drag the whole country down with it, so this is a joint matter. There's no party politics here, there's agriculture here. What we understood as the next question is that this applies only to cereals, what will happen to Hungarian beekeepers. We are living in such a sad year that during the operation of an agricultural minister who is himself a beekeeper, the Hungarian production apiaries, the large family production apiaries are essentially bankrupt, only hobbies will remain. The price of honey is below the cost of production, thanks to a bottler plant that you have smeared and filled your stocks with imported honey from abroad. This is a serious problem, so something has to be done, because 15 to 20,000 families are in particular at risk. Animal keepers also ask how they got something. In spite of the cheap Ukrainian grain, the feed prices have not actually become cheaper; they have fallen a little, but not as much as the cereal prices. So the grain price went down in half, the feed price didn't go down, and they don't think it's that much added value. And here is one last question: they ask why this very cheap grain price, despite last year's propaganda, does not appear in food prices. Who are the speculators who put them in their pockets? The price of bread has not decreased by 20-40 percent, the price of meat has not decreased or the price of dairy products has not decreased by one third or a half. These logical questions would therefore be answered by field farmers, livestock farmers, beekeepers, and at the end of the line by people who shop in shops and do not see price reductions. Thank you.
u2023-07-04-14	Thank you, Mr János Bencze. On behalf of the Government, Mr Sándor Farkas will respond.
u2023-07-04-15	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, The questions you raise are indeed everyday issues in the field of agriculture, but it is not as bad and it is not as tragic as you have mentioned. Today, when we look around Hungary, we look around the border, we see a very encouraging, very beautiful picture, which is not only a picture, but a reality. [[9.40]] You have referred to a lot of things here that I try to partially respond to, but if we look around the country and see the harvest situation, and the harvest of barley in the autumn and wheat in the southern counties has also begun, the average crop of these areas, these cereals, is much higher than the average crop of earlier years. On the basis of our surveys and crop estimates, Hungarian agriculture, the Hungarian Agricultural Ministry, calculates a average of over 6 tonnes of wheat. This could, to a large extent, constitute a serious, even export revenue, but also a serious economic advantage. What prices there are is a completely different question. Hungarian grain prices are not determined by the Hungarian government, not by the Hungarian market, but partly by the prices of the Rotterdam Stock Exchange and partly by the Chicago Stock Exchange. You, too, I believe I told you once that cereal prices are specifically linked to the world market price of oil, and followed by the grain price with a delay of about six months, especially the cereal price on the world market. This is an interesting connection, and you can look back on this for decades, so, unfortunately, in this respect, we have no influence that Hungarian traders, commercial companies and purchasers are also adapted to this price. And we also have another problem, to a large extent for farmers in the lowlands, that we are all the furthest from both sea ports. They usually measure the prices of these cereals to sea ports, don't they? If you look at the Adriatic now, the eastern part of the Great Plain is far away, but if you look at Constanta there, there are difficulties now, we are also very far away. Therefore, prices are also in a difficult situation due to freight costs, and farmers are in a difficult situation in this respect. However, it is encouraging that cereals that are harvested can be found in a safe place of storage. With regard to the cereal situation, I must say, and this is also related to the issue of food prices, there is indeed the truth that lower cereals prices have not been followed by food prices. Once again, it is particularly so that when we look at the government's policy and trade policy, if I can say this at all here, I have to say that in a significant part these processors, traders, have put on it those extra resources, those extra benefits, the extra things with which these prices have risen to such an extent, and now, under the influence of government measures, we can see that there is a slight decrease on the way back, but, of course, I have said this before, even with regard to the drought situation last year, that those prices will never come back as natural as they were before or before Covid; they will not come back. This is what we know about ourselves; history or even agricultural history can be looked back on, that unfortunately these prices will not come back again, with higher prices. Of course, we are not satisfied with this, and we are trying not only to provide the processors, traders, but also all Hungarian citizens with the right quality and quantity of food. The fact that Hungarian agriculture is going to fail: I can say strongly that I do not agree with you on this, and the statement is not true, because I would like to say only one or two numbers concerning your earlier warnings of danger: last year, as an emergency bird, farmers will not have the opportunity to sow spring and autumn crops; 1.73 million hectares were sown in the autumn, on 1 million 500 thousand hectares in the spring, and if we look around the border, these cereals, these plants are very encouraging. That's why I'm very happy that [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In Hungarian farming society, we have the power to continue to live, to live and to produce for us. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-07-04-16	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Farkas. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Molnár, representative of the MSZP, applied for a pre-meeting address with the title:. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-07-04-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. We are approaching the end of this parliamentary period actually on Friday, so it is very important to be able to talk about Hungarian families here, because there could not be anything more important than the situation of Hungarian families who have faced the problems of food, inflation and food prices in recent months. War inflation is a strong exaggeration, for one of the many reasons is war; there are also many other reasons for inflation, such as your bad economic policy. These Hungarian families are thus confronted with the fact that vacations and holidays can reach, for example, Lake Venice or Lake Balaton, a challenge that much of the Hungarian families cannot fulfil. You have missed a huge opportunity, because you have not helped the Hungarian families, and you have even made a decision to lead out the official prices, one of the few measures that were indeed a social democratic measure, which really helped the Hungarian families; if not for what you said, and if not for when you introduced it during the election campaign, but in this situation it would certainly help the Hungarian families, or it would help a lot if this measure were to be maintained. And so I listened not only to warm up or cool down, but to listen to Mr. Secretary of State who just told me [[Bence Rétvári: Is it hot or cold? To Bence of Rethvár, who fancies you.]] I see that Mr Secretary of State is very, very hot, yes, apparently this fantasy tells us a lot about your attitude about, for example, the status law, Mr Secretary of State said a very important thing, that inflation could be one-digit by the end of the year. We are cheering for this to happen, because we patriotic social democrats are also on the side of Hungarian families and home. But then the question arises: if inflation is going to be one-digit by the end of the year, then why are the official prices being introduced now? Not only should we have been led out, but also introduced new price caps, for example, because the moment has now come when not only in our souls we have the Balaton for Riviera, but also in terms of prices; and it is not only about the fact that we Hungarians love our national treasure, and because we are Hungarian for the Balaton, but there are prices that are so to be competitive, let's say, with the French Riviera, and you are [[Bence Rétvári: Burning down stores is the problem!]] They are idly watching this process; they are idly watching a large part of the Hungarian families, say on the north coast, to get to the theme of the hit, Mr. Secretary of State is anxious to see when we can get to the question of free beaches. Yes, it would have meant a great deal to Hungarian families if, no doubt, they had to go to a beach in Balatonfüred for HUF 2100, where you went last week, and you could tell that you were in there for HUF 2100, and you didn't get any other services. You are idly watching Hungarian families fail not only because of food prices, and for hundreds of thousands of families, eating is a huge challenge, but also helping to relax and relax when there was a chance that, for example, local governments would have made it mandatory to maintain free beaches, with certain compensations, and that Hungarian families would already be able to relax more easily. There was the possibility of holiday support: they did not make use of it, they did not consider it relevant to put this issue on the agenda. So they missed a lot of opportunities, and even the fact that the Erzsébet camps no doubt work, you can cycle around Lake Balaton, and there are free beaches on the south shore, for example. These are welcome things, but you don't have to sit on your laurels in a good way. Don't feel good, because you don't have any moral authority to sit on your laurels like you've done your job well, but this is the beginning of summer; here are the challenges that if you face, you can do something at the last minute. And do not say that this is an intervention in the affairs of the municipalities, because when it came to car taxation or business tax, or when educational institutions were taken away from the municipalities, or when they intervened in construction matters, they were not so concerned about the internal affairs of the municipalities, and they were not so concerned that this issue was a matter for the municipalities. There is no place for barbed wire and toll gates on the shore of Lake Balaton; they are on the border, Mr. Secretary of State, and not on the shore of Lake Balaton. So, in the 24th hour, there's still something they can do to prove that they're not just family friends in words. This debate will not end here today, because it will continue on many other scenes at Lake Balaton, but also in Szeklerland, I say, Mr Secretary of State, so we must also face the burden of entering a beach in Balaton, for example, for young people in Szeklerland. And last thought, tomorrow is Gyula Horn's 91st birthday. At the last minute, there's something you can do to stop this unworthy debate from continuing about the promenade. Talk to Sarah Botond, head of government office. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] to withdraw this unworthy action. Thank you for listening. [[Bence Rétvári: You shouldn't have...]] [[9.50]]
u2023-07-04-18	Thank you very much, Congressman Zsolt Molnár. On behalf of the government, Mr. Csaba Dömötör will answer.
u2023-07-04-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Among the issues of Gyula Horn's birthday and the idea of living, I would like to respond to suggestions about living. Many of us here have been aware that the MSZP presents the bravura that it protests even when we introduce the pricestops and protests even when these pricestops are transformed. Make up your mind what kind of policy you want to pursue. To the whole of the left, I would like to ask why, when we decided on the pricestops, the Hungarians' livelihood is so important, why they didn't support why they called it stupid. When we introduced interest rate stops, why didn't they support it, and when we introduced it, and even after ten years we maintain the premium, why would they argue against it if the Hungarians' livelihood is so important? Your claim about Lake Balaton can be summarized by the fact that now Hungarians can't afford to take a vacation at Lake Balaton, but they could have done it a long time ago. I do not want to remove the economic difficulties, nor do I want the impact of inflation all over Europe, and it is worth looking at the exact figures available on the basis of what is the situation. According to statistics, in the first five months of this year nearly 2 million domestic guests across the country spent 4 million 400,000 guest nights. During the same period in 2009, 1 million 275,000 domestic guests spent 2 million 715 thousand guest nights. So we're almost there that twice as many guests can spend nearly twice as much time in the country as they did in your time. If you look at Lake Balaton alone, 38 percent more guests chose our big lake as a place of relaxation last year compared to 2021, where 75 percent of the guest nights are connected to Hungarians, so they typically choose Lake Balaton as their destination. I would like to add that with the end of the epidemic, it is a common trend that more people choose foreign holiday destinations than in previous years, and Hungary is no exception. More people come from abroad, and more Hungarians choose foreign destinations compared to previous years. If we are talking about the country's number one holiday destination, I would like to stress that the government is paying particular attention to the continuous development of Lake Balaton and its surroundings. In recent years, investments in the region have received more than HUF 110 billion from domestic sources. Within the framework of the Kisfaludy programme, we have implemented comprehensive beach development at several stages. It's not my favorite subject, but you're the one who brings up the question of beaches here in Parliament, and I'll answer it. 18 There were 42 free beaches in the Balaton beach on the list, so it is not only the case that there are not only a few free beaches in the area of Lake Balaton, but the quality of the service is constantly improving. You have recently made a longer video of the situation in Balaton. One positive thing about this video was that you discovered these free beaches, as you just said: you tried it. This is an important development, because it may not happen, as before, that the MSZP demands free beaches over free beaches on air-drawn commercials. In the past, this really happened to no small surprise to bathers on the free beaches, by the way, which is really strange, because if you look at the beaches, then a significant part of the beaches are free beach. In order to have as many families as possible on holiday in Hungary and Lake Balaton, a sufficient number of quality accommodations are required. If there are more accommodations, if there are more good accommodations, there can be more price competition, which is why it is important to support the development of 14 thousand private accommodations and 634 pensions under the Kisfaludy programme. This means support for 5400 private accommodations only for Lake Balaton. In order for families to receive quality services at affordable prices, the government also needs to pay attention to tourism operators. This is why the Government has also decided on tax and contribution reductions, wage subsidies, compensation for accommodation renounced and exemption from the contribution to the development of tourism. Of course, we would also like to think of those who, for whatever reason, do not have the opportunity to take their own vacation on Lake Balaton or anywhere else. The Erzsébet camps are the main sites for this effort, which is why we are pleased that 180,000 people can enjoy their holidays in the Erzsébet camps, which is 10 times the number of 2012. That's a big difference. What I have said is a sectoral approach, but we can also look at this in a broader approach: the price increase that has taken place in the last year and a half and has affected not only tourism, but Hungary as a whole, mainly due to external economic factors and war. Therefore, there is nothing more we can do in this area than fight for peace in every possible way. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-07-04-20	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Mr Dávid Bedő, representative of the Momentum, also applied for a pre-meeting address on our current affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-07-04-21	Thank you very much. Today is a dark day, which will certainly enter the history books as the day of the destruction of Hungarian education. Even though teachers, students, parents have protested for months for a more livable education, you have ignored all of this, because today is going to push the Vengeance Act through Parliament. But the Fidesz government has not only mastered education in the last semester. Let's see how you've done, yet what your last six months of government has been like. I don't think they're really included in the propaganda you've funded and maintained. Our relationship with our allies is at a decade low both within the European Union and NATO. Wherever possible, Fidesz is tweaking and hindering joint action, it has withdrawn the NATO accession of Finland and Sweden, and instead of supporting Ukraine and Transcarpathian Hungarians, it is pursuing Putin-friendly policy, resulting in our relations with V4 at a low point, and the US has recently blocked a total purchase of 735 million dollars in Hungarian weapons. Fidesz is therefore not only destroying Hungary's international judgment, but also endangering the security of Hungarians. Let's see how you've done in the economy. According to the Institute of Economic Research, half a percentage of GDP is expected to decline and inflation is around 19% this year. Let's just say the truth: the budget isn't going well either. After all, during the first four months of the year, the accumulated deficit was above HUF 2700 billion, which is 80 percent of the annual plan. And the National Bank of Hungary is not standing well either, as they can bring together a loss of HUF 2000 billion this year, which of course will have to be replaced by Hungarian public finances. And what does this bring to the Hungarians? A crisis of opportunity and less and less wages, which is supported by a reduction in gross average earnings. Young people have a more exponential life, because you have also raised the interest rate on student loans. However, there seems to be always money for sport and propaganda, as there are tens of billions more this year than there have been so far. And if I was talking about the economy, let me mention the role of John Lazarus and Martin the Great. The Minister of Construction and Transport stopped 270 investments in the country, then decided to play a dozen newly renovated castles free of charge to his friends, causing hundreds of billions of dollars in damage. His colleague, Márton Nagy, came up alongside the successful price-stops to privatize the resorts and sports facilities used by paramedics, teachers, firefighters and policemen. Is this the big plan to save the economy? Finally, I would like to say a few words about corruption, which is the backbone of government policy. The Völner case is still going on, which is why Judi Varga was banished to Brussels. But let me mention István Tiborcz, who bought himself into the golf club of Lőrinc Mészáros next to Viktor Orbán's sixty-Pusztian land, or György Matolcsy, who, despite bringing together a loss of HUF 2000 billion, spent 22 billion on offices and had three headquarters. Orbán recently asked where the money went. I think the answer to that is quite clear: it was wasted on propaganda, visual and bogus investment, and of course it was good for my friends. In recent years, in the last ten years, many Hungarians have had the image that the Fidesz government is not good, the Fidesz government is autocratic and corrupt, but at least they can govern. Well, if it's good governance, I can't even begin to think about what it's like to be bad. A crisis of opportunity, a scandalous budget, low-level federal relations, corruption all over the place. This is what characterizes Fidesz Hungary today. It is clear that you cannot govern: you are rushing, improvising, and all Hungarians see the damage. Thank you very much. [[10.00]]
u2023-07-04-22	Thank you very much, Congressman Dávid Bedő. The Secretary of State will respond to what has been said. You have the floor.
u2023-07-04-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, It affected a lot of subjects. Unfortunately, I am suffering from a time gap, but I am trying to answer them, first of all, the question of war and the question of allies. We do not measure the expectations of others, what they will say about what Hungary represents in certain cases, we do not measure by an inch the distance between the Hungarian position and the position of any great power. There is only one measure, one aspect: what is in the interests of the country; it may be strange for you and for us it is a foundation. [[Eszter Vitalos: It's very strange for them!]] In this situation, we have one important thing: how to avoid this conflict, which, if any, takes place a few hundred kilometers from our borders; because we know very well that when history knocks on our door, even in the form of war, the consequences for the security of the Hungarian people, and what is so important about its livelihood. You simply ignore this aspect and look at what others will say in certain capitals; and if there is a difference between the positions of other countries and ours, you are constantly asking for this position. For once in your life, please wear a pair of glasses through which you look at Hungarian interests! As far as economic issues are concerned, perhaps you mentioned the GKI, I suggest you do one thing: please see how the predictions of the GKI have come true in recent times. You'll be surprised. So I would suggest more caution when basing my speech on the estimates of the GKI or any of my policies in your place. And anyway, as far as economic issues are concerned, it is an important weapon that, despite all economic counterwinds, the Hungarian economy has been able to grow in the last year, and we will try to make this characteristic for the whole of this year. Yet it is a weapon that the unemployment rate is still a third of the level that we inherited when we started governing: 4 percent instead of 12 percent. It is a weapon, after all, that despite your attacks, investments have made a record despite the period of war and the epidemic. I am stressing this specifically because, in fact, you know very well that these investments will make jobs, or that through these investments you can keep jobs either in the automotive industry or in other sectors. And when we vote on the budget in the period ahead, in these days, we will have the goal of matching this budget to this extraordinary period. As far as EU relations are concerned, we must speak frankly about the fact that when we joined the European Union, we had a hope or even a dream: that we are entering a European Union that is able to maintain peace, maintain growth and, thirdly, is able to treat the new Member States as equal partners. The fact is that we were disappointed because the European Union is not working for peace now, it is unable to maintain Europe's economic security and even treats the new Member States as second-class members. Do you think we should leave this out of the open? Should we leave it out of the question that weapons are being transported without the support of the majority of European citizens? Should we leave without saying that EUR 50 billion has been sent to a country outside the EU without account being taken of how it was spent? Should we leave without saying that the energy sanctions are going to put back the economy of all Europe and represent an additional cost of 4,000 billion in the Hungarian cash register, Hungary's cash register? Should we leave it out of the question that, using the attention given elsewhere, the resettlement quota, which, by the way, was declared by a referendum in Hungary, was accepted in one day? Should we let them hold back the funds that we otherwise have for political reasons, and then, when the register is empty, they ask us for more money, including to raise their own salary, the bureaucrats' salary? Among other things, people who have not just come out of prison in one case, we are qualified by people who come out of prison to vote on Hungary, for example, in the European Parliament. The brains will stop! So, the fact is that, while we are talking about EU issues, we are working for Europe, but against the current Brussels policy, because it is neither good for Hungary nor good for Europe. They sacrifice everything that has made this great place of the world great over the centuries, and once we are full members, why should we look at it without saying anything? Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-07-04-24	Thank you, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Dear Parliament, At the same time, MEP László Varju, representative of DK, also applied for a pre-meeting address. You have the floor.
u2023-07-04-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, seems difficult to understand this situation, and I would therefore like to contribute to getting used to it, beyond the sight of the height of the Castle, here on the ground. [[Csaba Dömötör: I'm not there! Róbert Szigó: Chillebérc!]] Because, yes, we are after a terrible six months: Hungary and the Hungarian people are in trouble, the Hungarian economy is in a falling recession, the Hungarian budget is in crisis; and you, the Orbán government, are responsible for this. It is possible to point lies at someone else, the point is that they have produced Europe's largest inflation, and the Hungarian people are suffering it. Despite the promise, gas, electricity prices, bills are coming to families right now, family support has been lifted, student loans have been increased several times. Even when we had these, 600 thousand Hungarians fled to Europe for a living, although you have taken it as a job creation of one million, as we have heard from the Secretary of State. The Hungarian village program has also been modified, which means that there is no teacher, no doctor, the post office is closed, the savings association is closed, and there is no shop in the village. With high interest rates, housing loans have been stopped, the possibility of starting a single life has been stopped, and they can't even start a rental program. After a terrible year, each of their earlier sentences shows that it was a tuned, megaphoned, paid fantasy, and the result is the Orbán austerity package, which is no longer a austerity, but a suffocating Orbán package. That's the price of their previous desire for power in the corner, their Urizing Thief Tempo. Why are they in this situation? Because with pride and pride, they didn't listen to anyone, they ran over health care workers, teachers, nurses, pensioners and so on. That they or God will punish you for this, I don't know, but what I do know is that you no longer spare our children: they will put a double debt on their necks instead of good learning, health, decent living and protecting European cooperation, freedom. And who is responsible for this? György Matolcsy said that the crisis is the fault of Viktor Orbán. Márton Nagy, Minister of Economic Affairs, even said, quote: "What surprises me is that consumption is falling back more than we thought it would be, and it's already a two-way ticket, so it's a consumption trap in the decline of growth. Households buy less food, change quality downhill, and these trends are not good. Are these trends really not good? What does that mean in Hungarian? Millions don't have enough money for bread, butter, or even parizer, and they don't have 300 billion forints of revenue for their spending. You complain that families and Hungarian companies don't pay enough taxes, so they're throwing out another face. People don't have money to dress, buy a refrigerator, because there's nothing left to put in it. And even if the Butchers buy another pair of pants, another kilo of bread, they won't be able to eat it. Or is it? That is why castles from the common property of Hungarians must be mowed. And in the meantime, they can't even solve enough to keep their MOL friends from fooling half a million people with the price and charge of the PB bottle. Viktor Orbán and his government behaves like the former Gentri: he lied to everyone about something encouraging, he lived up to their family fortune, he now owes it to grass and trees, and he also takes this precious loan for a luxurious life in 70ipusta. [[Sic!]] Loneliness, New York's apartment, as if it could afford it, but with a growling stomach and an open eye, we've seen the king naked for a long time. He is still flaunting himself with his illiberal, lying, threatening words, but everyone knows and sees that the king is naked. So they avoid him, he has no partner, he's alone, and he leaves us alone. [[10.10]] Orbán is raising prices, and Viktor Orbán is the reason why we are living badly. In order to eliminate inflation in Orbán, Viktor Orbán must leave. In the meantime, the shadow government will do everything possible. Klára Dobrev's social democratic shadow government is working to break down inflation in Orbán and not to increase prices, but wages and pensions. The taxes must be reduced, but the billionaires must pay! EU funds must be brought home, luxury investments must be stopped. The Social Democratic Government, led by Dobrev Klára, can make us a country of wage and pension increases instead of a country of price increases as a disciplined, controlling alternative. Let the billionaires pay! Thank you. [[Applause in DK's ranks. Eszter Vitalos: Feri! Where's the Feri?]]
u2023-07-04-26	Thank you, Congressman László Varju. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai will answer.
u2023-07-04-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Let me ask you a question right from the beginning: how did the dollar exchange rate turn out? [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]] That's what you should know on the left, because now the whole country, the whole world knows. [[László Varju intervenes: their friendship with President Putin...]] That you're funding it from the dollar money. [[László Varju intervenes.]] their costs [[The president's ringing the bell.]] even on a campaign or off-campus basis. [[Eszter Debate: Shh!]] Gergely Christmas has proved that in the last few days, it turns out. But let's get down to inflation. I'll give you a piece of advice in the end. [[László Varju intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] It's gonna be about why you have to keep quiet. [[László Varju: Asked, Mr. Secretary of State! The president's ringing the bell.]] It's a question of inflation. You believe that you have no responsibility for the economic situation in Hungary, such inflation. Then let's see how we get to your responsibilities. Vane to you. [[László Varju: After 13 years!]] is it your responsibility that the European Union's money, thousands of billions, does not arrive in Hungary? [[László Varju intervenes.]] Is it or isn't it? [[Eszter Vítalos: Shut your mouth! Shut up!]] His boss is sitting here, he himself said that, yes, we are doing it, we are working to prevent the Hungarians from getting the European Union's money. [[László Varju: Don't lie!]] Do you know what that means? Do you know what this means, that the European Union money will not come? [[Eszter Vítalos: Shut your mouth! László Varju: Don't lie, Mr. Secretary.]] It means that investments will cease, that investments will slow down, and so the construction industry will not be able to deliver, that's why the construction industry is developing...
u2023-07-04-28	Mr. Secretary, I'd like a moment of your time. I call on Laszlo Varju, don't yell at me. It's a warning. Here.
u2023-07-04-29	Thank you. Secondly, what does EU money do by preventing you from arriving in the country? This clearly creates funding difficulties for the budget, and difficulties in financing. External financing must be used, which is clearly high in interest rates and high interest rates have an impact on inflation. So when you say you have no responsibility for inflation, you simply don't tell the truth. But let's see what the sanction causes. [[László Varju: What doesn't exist!]] in Hungarian inflation! The sanction causes energy price increases, energy crises, energy supply difficulties [[László Varju: What Viktor Orbán voted for, right?!]] Which is also... You're a big supporter of sanctions, you'll vote for it with your eyes closed. [[László Varju: Only Hungarians voted by Viktor Orbán!]] in the European Union, they vote for all sanctions with their eyes closed. Do you know the consequences of this? That Russia is now exporting more gas than before the war. You know what that means? That they're taking the gas out to India and China. [[László Varju: And we take the most expensive!]] And from India and China, the same gas is coming back to Europe, only more expensive. Now, that's what your sanctions are for. [[László Varju: Excellent contract!]] But probably, even if they are not involved in speculation against the forint, they are certainly cynical in this, because they have well-known Soros connections. But what does the Hungarian government do? The Hungarian government aims to protect Hungary, protect Hungarian people, protect Hungarian families and protect the Hungarian economy. Protect the Hungarian families: the first thing you do in Europe alone is the protection of the rent, which means that up to the average consumption [[László Varju: So this really needs to be explained, there is no such thing!]] to this day, Hungarian families are paying the reduced price. What does it mean for pensioners? For pensioners, it means that they will receive at least the same pension increase as inflation. At the beginning of this year, it was 15 percent. If inflation is to develop, then, of course, they can expect a further increase. It protects jobs, because whatever war there is, whatever sanctions there are, whatever difficulties there are in the economy, you can see that the number of unemployed is not falling, employment is increasing in Hungary. Indeed, the government is taking effective and effective measures to protect [[László Varju intervenes.]] in this economic situation, too, the Hungarian people. Honourable Congressman, He talked me through my speech. When you spoke, I didn't, and I won't. So I'll give you a quote from a wise man: when you speak, you only repeat what you already know, but if you listen, you can learn something new. That's what I suggest you do. [[A round of applause and applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-07-04-30	Thank you, Mr András Tállai State Secretary. The group leader of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Mr István Simicskó, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor.
u2023-07-04-31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Sándor Márai said that the world is not only bright and dark, but also often confusing. We are in a world like this now, unfortunately we see today that discernment is difficult and that great wisdom is needed at times like this. It seems that the customary world order of recent decades seems to be overturning, completely transforming. The so-called "territory board game" is once again becoming a reality, and we can even see the concrete clues and steps of this. There is another sister war in our neighbourhood, after the South Slavic war, now a Russian-Ukrainian war, increasing migratory pressure on Europe, accelerated globalisation, the European Union's self-sacrifice policy is clearly pushing further on the European Christian civilisational slope thanks to Brussels' decision-makers, which, instead of stopping this rollover on the slope, push and push the failed migration policy further. We consider folk wisdom to be one thoughtful step in the right direction more than a race on the wrong path. We would also recommend this to Brussels, because it seems that the directions and goals do not match our goals. It should be considered by the leaders of Brussels to change European policy, as we can see that they are harmful and strengthen the path of self-destruction. In such a situation, what are Brussels decision-makers doing in recalling the identified crises? They write war scenarios instead of peace plans; they don't want a ceasefire, they want a new weapon; they want more and more aid, a lot of money for Ukraine, while the European Union itself is on the path of debt, practically throwing the European Union itself to the brink of bankruptcy. In fact, according to the latest news, which came to light a few weeks ago, this is a certain mandatory resettlement migrant quota, which is shocking. So the suicide policy they are pursuing was deeply shocking to all Hungarians. Let us remember that in 1951, after World War II, the Coal and Steel Community was created by a wisdom and a desire for peace that served as a basis for the current European Union. Konrad Adenauer, De Gasperi, Robert Schuman, and many Christian Democrats have stood up for no war on the European continent ever again. I think that today they would be very impressed by the attitude of the current decision-makers in Brussels on the subject of war and peace. It is quite shocking, however, that in 2012, the European Union also received a Nobel Peace Prize, and obviously it deserved it then, we can say that, but not today. I have said on several occasions that the European Union has become unworthy, since it is writing a war scenario and pursuing a pro-war policy. So we should think about giving back this Nobel Peace Prize because they've become undeserved. [[10.20]] Unfortunately, in this war policy, in this pro-war attitude, you can always rely on the Hungarian left in the ranks of MEPs and here, among the walls of this house. Allow me to say a few more words about migrants, ladies and gentlemen. Let me start by saying we don't have enough trouble? Aren't there enough problems for the European Union, all the Member States? I referred to indebtedness, I referred to economic difficulties, the harmful effects of faulty sanctions, inflation. And that's what we need, that's what's missing, is there a mandatory distribution of migrants in every Member State? ! Well, where did we get to, please? Migrants will develop in all the Member States, and we will bring further trouble to all the Member States of the Union and to the whole of the Union. What future will the European Union and its Member States have? Oh, and please, it can be redeemed for bounty, so you don't have to take in a migrant for 8 million forints? Well, what kind of attitude is that? Shocking! Shocking and saddening! In 2016, my fellow Members, the Hungarians had already decided in a referendum, nearly 3.5 million people made a firm statement: they did not ask for migrants, they did not ask for a compulsory quota. Finally, I would like to point out once again that we should call on the leaders of Europe to come to their senses, to end this self-rewarding policy, and Hungary will not be an immigrant country. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-07-04-32	Thank you very much, Mr. István Simicskó Group Leader. On behalf of the government, Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, will respond.
u2023-07-04-33	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Chief of Staff, There may or may not be people here in Europe who have lived with the vain fantasy that social integration efforts in Western Europe can succeed. Well, if they've turned on the television in the last few days and watched the news in France, then I think the vain fantasy has quickly become disillusioned. Clearly, the social integration efforts that Western European countries have so often expressed have failed quite simply. It has become clear that it is quite simply impossible to integrate violent masses from other cultures illegally in large numbers. They don't want to. They do not want them to be a majority of society, nor do they want the majority society to have serious doubts about it, even if they do not express it as a quiet majority, or they are much quieter and more civilized than the images seen in the days. If we look at the effects of migration in Western Europe in recent years, we are confronted with the phenomenon of dual societies, the phenomenon of dual or parallel societies. We face the fact that in many cases the silent majority lives in fear, and we see that billions of euros have been spent, wasted, wasted to succeed in this so-called social integration project, which has failed. You're asking me, Mr. Group Leader, what else you need, or you're not going to have enough. I believe that this could be translated in such a way that no tragedy is enough to come to their senses in Brussels, no tragedy seems enough to change the migration policy in Brussels. There are not enough tragedies that we are witnessing from television broadcasts in the Mediterranean. Tragedies that end with people dying after hundreds or thousands of dollars of human smugglers who put people on a whim, unfortunately drown in the Mediterranean are not enough. Not enough are the images now being shot on the streets of the French cities, not enough of thousands of burnt cars; not enough of the almost lynched mayor's wife and little children. The fact is that European people have a clear expectation of Brussels in this regard, namely that Brussels, well-paid European bureaucrats, should protect European people, protect borders, stop migration and not support but finally destroy the business models of smugglers. Compared to this, European bureaucracy is once again a coup d'état of pushing the migration quota. Here we consider international law a starting point. International law makes it clear that if someone has to flee their home, that person may be temporarily resident in the territory of the first safe country. Not in the second, not in the third and not in the tenth safe country, but in the first safe country. So, by definition, people who break in at the southern border of Hungary cannot be refugees, because there is no war in Serbia, no one's life in Serbia is in danger, so those who cross the Serbian-Hungarian border illegally, they come across the border, they violate Hungarian sovereignty, they violate our laws. You have no business in Hungary! We Hungarians do not want us to look like Keleti Railway Station again eight years after the events at Eastern Railway Station. We're not going to be an immigrant country, we're not going to let illegal immigrants in. We will continue to defend our southern border. Last year we stopped 271 thousand illegal immigrants, with 330,000 total European numbers. It is possible to see that almost 90 percent of the Hungarian performance was without any support from Europe to do so. Dear Chief of Staff, I think that anyone who is in favour of migration wants the end of Europe. We, on the other hand, do not want the end of Europe. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-07-04-34	Thank you, Minister Szijjártó. Dear Parliament, Pál Zsigmond Barna, representative of Fidesz, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-07-04-35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The European Union is on the verge of bankruptcy: there is no money in Brussels. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] This can be seen from the European budget amending proposal put forward by the Commission and, in addition to the required payments, requires Member States to pay more than ten billion serious payments, less than two years after the adoption of the budget. Let's see what the European Union would spend European people's money on. Firstly, EUR 50 billion is being asked for further support from Ukraine, while we have already paid 70 billion and we do not know what the money has gone to. Secondly, some billions are being asked by Brussels bureaucrats to raise their own salary [[Moraj in the ranks of opposition parties.]] Meanwhile, Hungary is being called upon to abolish the reduction of the rent. So the Hungarian people should pay more for the rent at home, send more money to the Commission, which will give them extra money. So, as is the case, it is absurd to the extent that it is obvious to many voters and to me as a Szekler man, as they say, that the knife opens in his pocket. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Wow!]] Ladies and gentlemen, Thirdly, they are asking for money to pay interest on the loan received to combat the Covid epidemic, which the Member States of the Union have jointly committed to establishing a recovery fund in order to spread resources among the Member States in order to mitigate the effects of the epidemic. Now the interest rates have increased because of war and inflation, so they want us to pay an extra interest rate, which we have not received any recovery support on the basis of, because Brussels continues to hold back these funds from the countries led by the two right-wing governments, Poland and Hungary on an ideological basis. Fourthly, ladies and gentlemen, there is a larger amount, some EUR 10 billion, which is set aside by the Commission to facilitate the arrival of migrants in Europe. They do this because they have adopted rules that require Hungary to accept tens of thousands of migrants every year against its will. So I say slowly that the left, which is a post-migratory problem, should also understand: we are talking about tens of thousands of migrants, and they also want us to be obliged to build migrant ghettos in Hungary. The Hungarian position on migration is clear from the outset: we do not ask for illegal immigrants, but we want to help those in need locally in the issuing countries. From the outset, the left has consistently denied that there would be an attempt to distribute migrants according to quota in the EU Member States. However, now that the migrant problem is causing unprecedented violence in France and in several countries, each country is obliged to take responsibility for a certain number of migrants. [[10.30]] If you do not wish to accept it, you should pay Brussels EUR 20,000 each as a ransom. What if it's not a net migrant quota? Ladies and gentlemen, We have talked a lot about this, but it must be said again that war and sanctions have put Europe in a difficult position, and in this situation Brussels is once again acting against the interests of Europe. Brussels is delivering weapons to the war, further intensifying the conflict, introducing new sanctions, thereby increasing European inflation and reducing Europe's competitiveness by increasing energy prices. While there are corruption scandals in Brussels, Brussels' bureaucracy is not in the interests of the European people, it is in its own interests that it wants to raise its own salary. We Hungarians condemn war from the beginning and promote peace. Again and again, we say that money should not be given to continue the war, but to give money to have a ceasefire and peace talks. If, therefore, we have instruments, whether financial or political, we should be used to bring us to peace, but Brussels is not doing so now, and the price of war is being paid by the people of Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, In our fight, we are not alone. Many people stand by us, and more and more people see and say that the direction the Union is currently going is a straight line towards bankruptcy and the destruction of Europe. We have come to a point where other countries in Europe are also confused about the decisions taken in Brussels, and the public is becoming increasingly critical. In Hungary, the position of the Hungarian people is clear. On several occasions, they have made it clear that they do not ask for migrants, they do not ask for double standards in the EU, we reject the idea of migrant settlements, we ask for the money that we deserve and we call for responsible management of EU bureaucrats. And, of course, we hope that next June there will be a real change in Brussels and that there will finally be responsible leaders of the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-07-04-36	Thank you, Congressman Zsigmond Barna Pál. Minister Péter Szijjártó will respond to what has been said.
u2023-07-04-37	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that we record five facts. The first fact is that the European Union still does not pay the European Union's funds to Hungary. This decision by European bureaucrats is entirely contrary to European treaties, contrary to European rules and contrary to European values. Let us make it clear that the European Commission does not have any legal basis for refusing to pay these contracts to Hungary. Earlier, Hungary, the Hungarian Parliament, voted in favour of every change proposal requested from Brussels, so it became clear that the funds due to Hungary were not paid out of Brussels for political reasons. They simply cannot accept that the Hungarian people have exercised their sovereign rights and have taken a decision on the future of Hungary that is contrary to the expectations of the liberal mainstream in Brussels. The second fact is that two and a half years have passed from the current seven-year budgetary planning period in the European Union, but in Brussels the EU's seven-year budget has already been abducted; who knows where the money is, it has run out and they are asking for more money from the Member States. The third fact is that Brussels is suffering from war psychosis. In addition, the completely illogical and absolutely unreasonable decision was taken in Brussels to compete with the United States on how much military support we can offer Ukraine; whereas it is quite clear that arms shipments involve an extension of the war. The longer the war, the more people die, the more severe the destruction, and the more expensive the restoration will be. Serious billions of euros have been spent on financing war and billions have been spent by EU Member States to carry weapons. Fourthly, sanctions are causing serious damage to the European economy, although this is not a war for European people. For this war, Europeans have no responsibility; nevertheless, Europeans are being paid the price of this war. This is unacceptable, the sanctions policy has failed and none of the objectives associated with the sanctions policy have been achieved, and the European economy has lost enormously its competitiveness. And finally, the fifth fact is that we are now being asked from Brussels to eliminate the reduction in the rent, to increase the Hungarian people's overhead costs, while European bureaucrats are asking for more and more millions and billions of euros on their own salary. I think it's only fair that we think of the punch line of that joke, which basically means that we hope it's serious, because it's just a joke. The well-paid bureaucrats in Brussels showed total incompetence. They have been unable to take one step towards peace in the past year and a half, and the European Union's competitiveness has fallen dramatically, and European citizens' money is lacking. This raises at least three serious questions. The first question is why they spent EUR 70 billion in Ukraine, why this money was not enough. We only sincerely hope that the transparency of spending this EUR 70 billion is a little better than the texts in which the President of the European Commission has ordered vaccines for billions of euros during the Crown Virus. The second question is where Hungary and Poland's money is. Would this money still be worth it, or did they spend it on some kind of who knows what purpose? And the third is why we have to give the Commission extra money to finance the interest burden on Covid, the rebooting plans for the coronal virus, if we and the Poles have not received a single cent from this framework. Ladies and gentlemen, We need to make our position clear on four points so that they can understand it well in Brussels. The first is that we do not give in to the reduction of the rent, no matter how they demand it from us in Brussels. Second, we do not give a penny or euro cent to raise the salary of European bureaucrats. Third, no more money from European citizens can go to Ukraine until the EUR 70 billion spent so far has been accounted for. Finally, the initiative to increase the interest burden for the reconstruction of Covid should simply be called upon. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A big round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-07-04-38	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. The session will be handed over to Vice-President János Latorcai. We're taking a two-minute technical break. (Recess: 10.38-10.39) President: Dr. János Latorcai Note: Dr. István Tiba and Dániel Z. Carpathian)
u2023-07-04-39	Welcome, fellow Members. We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. Please take your seats and check that your card has been properly placed in the voting machine. I would also like to inform my fellow Members that we are also deciding on the adoption of proposals requiring a qualified majority in today's decisions. I would like to draw your attention to the decision-making rule of 50. If Parliament does not adopt a provision requiring a qualified majority in the final vote of the bill pursuant to Article 3 of the Act, this includes the removal of the provision indicating the fundamentality of the unapproved regulation without any further specific decision. In this case, the final vote by a simple majority shall take place on the text of the proposal thus amended. In line with our adopted agenda, decisions are now being taken to accept the responses to the interpellations made yesterday. [[10.40]] Mr Balázs Barkóczi, representative of DK, I/4418. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 134 votes in favour, 56 votes against and one abstention. Congressman Ferenc Gelencsér, Head of Group of the Momentum, I/4422. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 133 votes to 52, with 6 abstentions. Ms Zita Gurmai, representative of the MSZP, I/4439. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 132 votes in favour, 57 votes against and one abstention. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, notary of Parliament, I/4441. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 134 votes in favour, 57 votes against and one abstention. Mr. President Novak, representative of our country, I/4045. No response was received. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 138 votes in favour, 7 votes against and 10 abstentions. Congressman Bence Tordai, representative of the Dialogue, I/1330. No response was received. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 135 votes in favour, 57 votes against and one abstention. Congressman Máté Kanász-Nagy, representative of the LMP, I/4466. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 135 votes in favour, 57 votes against and one abstention. Lot. Ms Erzsébet Németh, representative of DK, I/4417. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 134 votes in favour, 56 votes against and one abstention. Dear Parliament, It is now 11/2022 on the establishment of committees, the election of members and officials of Parliament. [[V. 2.]] A decision to amend a decision. S/4565 submitted by the President We have all been able to get to know the proposal on the website. I now call on Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa to present the content of the personal proposal put forward by the President. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2023-07-04-40	Mr President, 11/2022 on the establishment of committees, election of members and officials of the Parliament [[V. 2.]] Point 1 of the OGY Decision is amended as follows: Parliament elects Zoltán Bóna, Fidesz, instead of Dr. Judit Varga, Fidesz, to be a member of the Committee with effect from 1 August 2023. According to point 2, point 4 of the parliamentary decision is amended as follows: Parliament elects Dr. Richárd Hörcsik, Fidesz, instead of Dr. Judit Varga, Fidesz, President of the Committee with effect from 1 August 2023. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption.
u2023-07-04-41	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, First, on the basis of points 1 and 3 of the proposal, we decide on the election of the member of the committee, and then, according to point 2 of the proposal, we decide on the Commission's officials from among the members of the committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament that S/4565. By adopting points 1 and 3, it shall elect Judit Varga as a member of the European Affairs Committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Judit Varga as a member of the Committee on European Affairs with 190 votes in favour and no votes against, with two abstentions. [[Eve Scars applauds. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Let's put it in the record that it's a lame applause.]] I am now asking the Honourable Parliament that S/4565. According to point 2 of the proposal No.2, Judit Varga is elected President of the Committee on European Affairs from among the members of the Committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Judit Varga as Chairman of the Committee on European Affairs by 189 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 1 abstention. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Congratulations!]] Congratulations, Madam President, on your good work. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]] Next up is the 1993 XLVIII on mining. Act and Act XL of 2008 on the supply of natural gas T/4251. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/4251/5 of the Legislative Committee's proposal for a summary amendment and T/4251/6 of its report. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/4251/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 141 votes in favour, 42 votes against and 10 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4251/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 141 votes in favour, 42 votes against and 10 abstentions. Following a series of amendments to Act C of 1990 on Local Taxes, T/4064. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/4064/5 of the Legislative Committee's proposal for a summary amendment and T/4064/6 of its report. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/4064/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 167 votes in favour, 14 votes against and 11 abstentions. [[10.50]] It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4064/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 169 votes in favour, 14 votes against and 9 abstentions. It follows now that the T/4027 on the amendment of certain laws relating to gambling organisation and electronic administration, as well as with a view to strengthening the coherence of the legal system, will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/4027/4. T/4027/5 and T/4027/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 22 and 34, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the parts requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4027/4. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 139 votes in favour, 34 votes against and 18 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4027/4. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment which require a simple majority by 140 votes in favour, 34 votes against and 18 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4027/6. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 140 votes in favour, 34 votes against and 18 abstentions. We now decide on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority, so I ask the Honourable Parliament and accept T/4027/6. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 140 votes in favour, 34 votes against and 17 abstentions. Dear House, It follows that T/4243 on the contribution of airlines and on the amendment of certain tax laws. on the regularity of the proposal for an excessive amendment to bill No 72. § 1 of the Rules of Procedure and, in the event of their adoption, of the proposal for an excessive amendment, the decision on the proposal for a summary amendment and the final vote. T/4243/11 and T/4243/14. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee is separate from the summarised amendment proposal T/4243/12. It also submitted a proposal for an amendment that went beyond the scope of the proposal and T/4243/13 at the same time as the submission. No 72 of the Rules of Procedure. § 1 has proposed to the Honourable Parliament, in which it proposes to the Parliament that the House Rules of Decisions 71. Paragraph 3 (a) to (c) shall not apply. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that first the regularity of the over-extensive amendment proposal, as well as the conformity of the 72nd amendment. § (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union. If these are adopted, we will decide on the proposal for an over-extending amendment. This is followed by a decision to maintain the proposed amendments, a summary amendment proposal and, finally, a final vote. Dear Parliament, The resolution house rule is 71. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Article 44 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, Parliament decides without debate that the extension of the proposed amendment is linked to the content of a duly amended proposal or to the House Rule 44 of the Rules of Procedure. If it is clearly necessary to enforce the criteria set out in paragraph 1 of Section 1. Prior to the decisions, the rapporteur appointed by the Legislative Committee, and then, if there is a minority opinion in the Legislative Committee, the rapporteur for the minority opinion may speak in a total time frame of four minutes. Then, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur for the bill can present his position within a two-minute time frame. I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee has indicated in advance that it does not present a rapporteur. I would like to ask that someone on the part of the authors wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak on the regularity of the expanding amendment proposal. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Now T/4243/12. We decide on the regularity of the proposal for an excessive amendment. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament that T/4243/12 renders it legal. The proposal for an over-expansive amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament declared the proposal for an amendment extending by 136 votes in favour, 58 votes against and no abstentions. Now the resolution house rule is 72. § (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Parliament's contribution requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to agree that T/4243/13. T/4243/12. With regard to the excessive amendment proposal No 71, the House Rules of the Decision Paragraph 3 (a) to (c) shall not apply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Commission shall decide on a proposal pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Article. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Parliament's contribution requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to agree that T/4243/13. T/4243/12. With regard to the excessive amendment proposal No 71, the House Rules of the Decision Paragraph 3 (a) to (c) shall not apply. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament agreed to the proposal by 136 votes in favour, 56 votes against and one abstention. We are now deciding on the adoption of an over-extensive amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/4243/12. The proposed amendment, which is duly over-extensive, was proposed. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the proposal for an amendment extending by 135 votes in favour, 49 votes against and 9 abstentions. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Under paragraph 4 of Section 4, the DK Group proposed to maintain Amendment 2 and the LMP Group proposed amendments No 3, 4 and 5. That's what we're gonna decide now. Amendment 2 is proposed by Ferenc Gyurcsány and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 50 votes in favour, 134 votes against and 10 abstentions. [[11.00]] Amendment 3 is proposed by Mr Csárdi. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 24 votes in favour, 137 votes against and 33 abstentions. Amendment 4 is proposed by Mr Csárdi. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 134 votes against and 2 abstentions. Amendment 5 is also proposed by Mr Csárdi. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 41 votes in favour, 134 votes against and 17 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/4243/11. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 136 votes in favour, 49 votes against and 9 abstentions. It is now the final vote. In view of the fact, ladies and gentlemen, that the Parliament has also adopted the proposal for an amendment which is duly overextensive and the overall amendment proposal, the final vote will decide on the whole of the single proposal containing the proposal for an excessive amendment. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/4243/16. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 136 votes in favour, 49 votes against and 9 abstentions. We are now deciding on provisions requiring a simple majority of the single proposal containing an over-extensive amendment. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/4243/16. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 136 votes in favour, 49 votes against and 9 abstentions. Next up is the T/3677 on the state works order. Decision on the proposal for an amendment before the final vote on the legislative proposal and the deferred final vote. In view of the fact that the Parliament decided to postpone the final vote on the 13 June meeting, the national T/3677/12. A proposal for an amendment to the final vote was tabled. The Legislative Committee's amendment before the final vote T/3677/13 and its report before the final vote T/3677/14. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on a proposal for an amendment before the final vote. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 2, 3, 4 and 5, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the parts requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts 3677/13. Points requiring a qualified majority of its amendment before the final vote. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the decision: the Parliament adopted the points requiring a qualified majority of the amendment before the final vote by 136 votes in favour, 49 votes against and 9 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the amendment before the final vote that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts 3677/13. The additional points of its amendment before the final vote require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the additional points of the amendment before the final vote, which required a simple majority, by 136 votes in favour, 49 votes against and 9 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now the final vote. In view of the fact that the Parliament adopted the summary amendment at its meeting on 13 June, we will decide on a single proposal, as amended by the agreed points of the amendment before the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the amended single proposal requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3677/10. The provisions of the amended single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the amended single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 135 votes in favour, 49 votes against and 9 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the amended single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3677/10. The provisions of the amended single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the amended single proposal requiring a simple majority by 136 votes in favour, 49 votes against and 9 abstentions. Following is the 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. Act XXXVI of 2013 on electoral procedure T/4230. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/4230/4 and T/4230/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 2 to 10 of this Regulation, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the parts requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4230/4. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 157 votes in favour, 17 votes against and 17 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4230/4. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment by 158 votes in favour, 18 votes against and 17 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. The adoption of these will require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. [[11.10]] I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4230/6. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 158 votes in favour, 18 votes against and 17 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4230/6. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 156 votes in favour, 18 votes against and 17 abstentions. Next up is the T/4254 on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2024. on the regularity of the proposal for an excessive amendment to bill No 72. § 1 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union, on the initiative of proceedings pursuant to Article 1 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and on the proposals for amendments to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, on the one hand, and on the other, on the other, on the other. T/4254/8. T/4254/13. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee has also submitted proposals for amendments extending beyond numbers T/4254/9, 10 and 11 and T/4254/12, separately from the summarised amendment proposal. No 72 of the Rules of Procedure. § 1 has proposed to the Parliament that the House Rules of Decisions 71. Paragraph 3 (a) to (c) shall not apply. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that we will decide separately on the over-extending amendments, first on the regularity of the over-extending amendment proposal, then on the 72nd. § 1 proposal. If they are adopted, we will decide on the proposal for an over-extensive amendment, followed by the decision on the summarised amendment proposal and, finally, the final vote. Dear Parliament, The resolution house rule is 71. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Article 44 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, Parliament decides without debate that the extension of the proposed amendment is linked to the content of a duly amended proposal or to the House Rule 44 of the Rules of Procedure. If it is clearly necessary to enforce the criteria set out in paragraph 1 of Section 1. Prior to the decisions, the rapporteur appointed by the Legislative Committee, and when there is a minority opinion in the Legislative Committee, the rapporteur for the minority opinion may speak in a total time frame of four minutes. The rapporteur may then state his position within a two-minute time frame. I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee has indicated in advance that it does not present a rapporteur. I ask that someone on the part of the authors wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak on the regularity of the over-extensive amendments. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Now T/4254/9. We decide on the regularity of the proposal for an excessive amendment. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the T/4254/9. The proposal for an over-expansive amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament declared the proposal for an amendment extending by 136 votes in favour, 57 votes against and one abstention. I would like to draw your attention to Parliament's contribution to the resolution house rule 72. The proposal under § (1) requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to agree that T/4254/12 T/4254/9. With regard to the excessive amendment proposal No 71, the House Rules of the Decision Paragraph 3 (a) to (c) shall not apply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] Two thirds of the Members of Parliament present shall have a vote in favour of the proposal under paragraph 1 of this Article. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to agree that T/4254/12 T/4254/9. With regard to the excessive amendment proposal No 71, the House Rules of the Decision Paragraph 3 (a) to (c) shall not apply. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament agreed to the proposal by 136 votes in favour, 57 votes against and one abstention. We are now deciding on the adoption of an over-extensive amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of point 1 of this Article, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on a point requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/4254/9. Point 1 requiring a majority of the duly overextensive amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points of the exceeding amendment which required a qualified majority by 136 votes in favour, 57 votes against and one abstention. We are now deciding on further points in the overextensive amendment proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/4254/9. The additional points of its duly overextensive amendment proposal require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the additional points of the overextensive amendment by 136 votes in favour, 56 votes against and one abstention. Now T/4254/10. We decide on the regularity of the proposal for an excessive amendment. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament that the T/4254/10. The proposal for an over-expansive amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament declared the proposal for an amendment extending by 143 votes in favour, 46 votes against and 4 abstentions in order. Now the resolution house rule is 72. § (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Parliament's contribution requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to agree to the T/4254/12. T/4254/10. With regard to the excessive amendment proposal No 71, the House Rules of the Decision Paragraph 3 (a) to (c) shall not apply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Commission shall decide on a proposal pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Article. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Parliament's contribution requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to agree to the T/4254/12. T/4254/10. With regard to the excessive amendment proposal No 71, the House Rules of the Decision Paragraph 3 (a) to (c) shall not apply. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament agreed to the proposal by 144 votes in favour, 44 votes against and 6 abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of an over-extensive amendment proposal. In view of the new 98 in point 1 thereof, A qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of §2 of the Act and the decision is taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the part requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/4254/10. The majority of the amended proposal for a duly over-extensive amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the qualified majority of the proposal by 144 votes in favour, 44 votes against and 6 abstentions. We are now deciding on other parts of the over-extensive amendment proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/4254/10. The other parts of its duly overextensive amendment proposal require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the remaining parts of the overextensive amendment which require a simple majority by 144 votes in favour, 44 votes against and 6 abstentions. [[11.20]] Now T/4254/11. We decide on the regularity of the proposal for an excessive amendment. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament that the T/4254/11. The proposal for an over-expansive amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament declared the proposal for an amendment extending by 136 votes in favour, 52 votes against and 5 abstentions in order. Now the resolution house rule is 72. § (1) we decide on a proposal, taking into account that the consent of the Parliament requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I'd like to take that into account. I ask the Honourable Parliament to agree to the T/4254/12. T/4254/11. With regard to the excessive amendment proposal No 71, the House Rules of the Decision Paragraph 3 (a) to (c) shall not apply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] - Paragraph 8 shall not apply. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament agreed to the proposal by 136 votes in favour, 53 votes against and 5 abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of an over-extensive amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/4254/11. The proposed amendment, which is duly over-extensive, was proposed. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the proposal for an amendment extending by 136 votes in favour, 55 votes against and three abstentions. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 19, 21, 22, 28, 30, 31, 53, 119, 120, 121 and 126 of this Decision, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the parts requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4254/8. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 136 votes in favour, 58 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4254/8. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment by 136 votes in favour, 58 votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. In view of the fact that the Parliament has adopted the proposals for an amendment which is duly overextensive and the overall amendment proposal, the final vote will decide on the whole of the single proposal containing the proposals for an over-extensive amendment. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4254/14. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 134 votes in favour, 58 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on provisions requiring a simple majority of the single proposal containing over-extensive amendments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4254/14. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 135 votes in favour, 57 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, Next up is T/4255 on the new career of educators. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/4255/41. T/4255/42. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. § 4 of the LMP Group proposed the continuation of amendments No 19, 28 and 29. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment No 19 Kanász-Nagy Márton [[Sic!]] and the motion of fellow Members. [[Moraj in the ranks of opposition parties.]] I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 60 votes in favour, 133 votes against and 1 abstention. Amendment 28 is proposed by Mr Kanász-Nagy and his fellow Members. [[Intercoms from opposition parties: Matthew!]] I'm sorry, I suggest Matthew. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] Thus, Amendment 28 is the proposal for an amendment by Member Matthew Kanász-Nagy and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 134 votes against and 1 abstention. Thank you for your help in the past. This also shows that they are all up there. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: It's hard, Mr. President, it's hard!]] Amendment 29 is also the motion of Member Máté Kanász-Nagy and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 59 votes in favour, 134 votes against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of point 198 of this Regulation, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on a point requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4255/41. Point requiring a qualified majority of the amending proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the qualified majority point of the summary amendment by 136 votes in favour, 53 votes against and 5 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4255/41. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment by 135 votes in favour, 53 votes against and 5 abstentions. [[Gergely Harvesto: Shame, shame! Bence Rétvári: You said it early! I should've done it a little later.]] Congressman! It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. [[11.30]] In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4255/44. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 134 votes in favour, 60 votes against [footnoteRef:1], without abstention. [ 1: Peter Agh] [[Fidesz]] [[Fidesz]] and Csaba Dömötör (Fidesz) voted wrongly, they wished to vote in favour. ] We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4255/44. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 136 votes in favour, 58 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, The election of the new members of the Constitutional Court by secret ballot follows. [[The members of DK, Momentum, the Group of Dialogue and some MSZP Members are leaving the Chamber.]] Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Allow me to welcome the candidates with special respect: Dr. Ádám Mária Haszonics, Dr. Réka Varga, Dr. Zoltán Lomnici and Prof. Dr. András Patyi, as well as their family members, all the permanent guests and guests of the Parliament who attend our meeting. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the Committee on Justice is S/4474. CLI 2011 on the Constitutional Court. Act No. 7 In accordance with the powers of Ms.Dr. Ádám Hasonics, Dr. Zoltán Lomnici, Prof. Dr. András Patyi and Dr. Réka Varga propose to elect a member of the Constitutional Court. The Committee on Justice's proposal and the biography of the candidates could be found on the website by my fellow Members. Dear Parliament, The National Assembly elects the new members of the Constitutional Court with two-thirds of the votes of the Members of Parliament for 12 years on the basis of the proposal submitted by the Speaker of Parliament, with effect from 2 September 2023. Under the parliamentary law, the vote is classified. Dear Parliament, The process of the secret vote is as follows: the congressional ladies and gentlemen can take the ballots from the group corresponding to the initials of their names, in alphabetical order, in four groups in the Danube corridor of the House of Commons. [[Several Members are leaving.]] Take your time, fellow Members. Until I tell you, you can't pick up the ballot. I would like to inform you that four ballots and an envelope can be received in the sectors. Please confirm the fact of receipt on the sheets placed at the tables. I would also like to inform you that it is recommended that a voting booth be used in the vote. I ask you to place your nomination on the ballot paper in the box 'yes', 'no' or 'no'. I now ask Mr Dániel Z. Karpa to briefly explain the rules of the vote, and I respectfully ask my fellow Members to sit in their seats and listen to it. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2023-07-04-42	Dear Parliament, The only way to vote is with the official ballots. Only what has been cast on the candidate on the ballot-paper shall be deemed to be valid, with two incisive lines placed in squares next to his name. The vote on which the Member has voted shall not be valid and shall not be beyond reasonable doubt. The vote that has not been cast on the official ballot paper is null; the one with the stamp missing; and if the voter takes over the ballot paper, but does not throw it into the ballot box. I would like to inform you that if anyone fails to fill out the ballot paper, the members of the ballot counting committee at the ballot box will involve it and replace it with a new card.
u2023-07-04-43	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, During the voting period, only Members or members of the working group involved in the vote shall be allowed to remain in the corridor of the Lower House Chamber. I announce that 30 minutes are available to cast the votes, so it is possible to do so for 12 hours and 6 minutes. The outcome of the secret vote is expected to be presented in 70 minutes, so it will be possible in an hour and ten minutes, or about 12:46. I'm ordering the secret vote. (Recess: 11.36-12.48) President: Dr. János Latorcai Notes: Dr. István Tiba and Dániel Z. Kárpát)
u2023-07-04-44	Ladies and gentlemen, Please take your seats. [[It's happening.]] I would ask my fellow Members to rise and welcome our President of the Republic, who will take her place in box 6. [[It's happening.]] Thank you. Take your seats. [[It's happening. Representatives of Jobbik, Momentum, DK, Dialogue and independents are not in the room.]] Dear House, Fellow Members! I declare that the ballot counting committee has completed its work. He noted that 150 Members had taken up the ballot in the secret vote; the notaries found that the voting procedure was valid and effective for the candidates. Dear Parliament, According to the number of ballot papers found in the urn, 150 members voted on the person of Dr. Ádám Mária Hasónics. Their distribution is as follows: the number of invalid votes 1, the number of valid votes 149. Of this, the number of votes in favour is 136, the number of votes in favour is 13, the number of votes in favour is zero. On this basis, I find that the Parliament elected Dr. Mrs. Ádám Mária Hasonics as a member of the Constitutional Court. [[Applause for the governing parties and a sporadic applause from the LMP benches. Mrs. Hasónics thankes for the applause, standing up and bowing.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Dr. Zoltán Lomnici's vote was cast by 150 representatives based on the number of ballot papers found in the urn. Their distribution is as follows: the number of invalid votes is 2, the number of valid votes is 148. Of this, the number of votes in favour is 136, the number of votes in favour is 12, the number of votes in favour is zero. On this basis, I find that the Parliament elected Mr Zoltán Lomnici as a member of the Constitutional Court. [[Applause for the governing parties and a sporadic applause from the LMP benches. Dr. Zoltán Lomnici stands up and bows to thank you for your applause.]] Dear House, Fellow Members! Prof. Dr. András Patyi's vote was cast by 150 representatives based on the number of ballot papers found in the urn. Their distribution is as follows: the number of invalid votes 1, the number of valid votes 149. Of this, the number of votes in favour is 136, the number of votes in favour is 13 and the number of votes in favour is zero. On this basis, I find that Prof. Dr. András Patyi was elected member of the Constitutional Court. [[Applause for the governing parties and a sporadic applause from the LMP benches. Prof. Dr. András Patyi stands up and bows to thank you for your applause.]] Dear House, Fellow Members! Dr. Réka Varga's vote was cast by 150 representatives based on the number of ballot papers found in the urn. Their distribution is as follows: the number of invalid votes is 2, the number of valid votes is 148. Of this, the number of votes in favour is 136, the number of votes in favour is 12 and the number of votes in favour is zero. On this basis, I find that the Parliament has elected Mrs Réka Varga as a member of the Constitutional Court. [[Applause for the governing parties and a sporadic applause from the LMP benches. Dr. Réka Varga stands up and bows to thank you for your applause.]] Dear House, Fellow Members! The new members of the Constitutional Court are now under oath and the oath papers are signed. I ask Mrs. Hasonics to come to the centre of the Chamber and take their oath. I ask Mr István Tiba to read the oath text after the candidates arrive in the middle of Parliament. [[The constitutional judges are entering the center of the courtroom.]] I urge those in the Chamber to stand up and listen to it as usual. [[The people in this room stand up. Notary Dr. István Tiba reads the words of the oath.]] [[12.50]]
u2023-07-04-45	I, Mrs. Hasonics, Dr. Adam Mary/Dr. Zoltán Lomnici/András Patyi/Réka Varga I pledge to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its legislation and to keep it with others. So help me God. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties and the LMP.]]
u2023-07-04-46	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The oath papers will now be signed. I would ask Mr Vinnai Győző to prepare the oath papers for signature, and I would ask the elected members of the Constitutional Court to sign them. [[It's happening. The Dr. Winner Vinnai, who signed the oath papers, congratulates the elected members of the Constitutional Court.]] Dear Parliament, Dear New Members of the Constitutional Court, Allow me to congratulate you on behalf of the Parliament and myself. I wish you good work and good luck. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties, the LMP and our country.]] Now you can congratulate the new members. [[First, Viktor Orbán, then Dr. Zsolt Semjén, László Kövér, Máté Kocsis, Dr. István Simicskó, Dr. Judit Varga, Imre Ritter, Dr. Ákos Kozma, Gergely Gulyás, Péter Ungár, Előd Novák and Dr. István Hiller congratulated him.]] Dear House, Fellow Members! I thank the elected new members of the Constitutional Court for their presence. We'll get back to work. Dear Parliament, President Katalin Novák sent the Parliament a transcript of the appointment of new ministers. I now invite Mr Dániel Z. Karpa to present the transcript of the President of the Republic. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2023-07-04-47	László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I would like to inform the Parliament that, acting under the powers laid down in the Fundamental Law, I have taken decisions concerning the following ministerial and State Secretary's mandates. Article 9 (four) (j), Article 20 (three) (b) of the Fundamental Law and CXXV of 2018 on Government Administration. Law 197. On the basis of Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, I declare that Dr. Judit Varga, Minister of Justice, will cease with effect from 31 July 2023. On the basis of Articles 9 (four) (c) and 16 (7) of the Fundamental Law, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, with effect from 1 August 2023, I appoint Dr. János Bóka as Minister of Justice for European Union Affairs and Dr. Tuzson Bencé as Minister of Justice. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] Paragraph 1 (j), Article 20 (3) (b) and the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration. Law 197. On the basis of Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, I declare that Dr. Judit Varga, Minister of Justice, will cease with effect from 31 July 2023. On the basis of Articles 9 (four) (c) and 16 (7) of the Fundamental Law, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, with effect from 1 August 2023, I appoint Dr. János Bóka as Minister of Justice for European Union Affairs and Dr. Tuzson Bencé as Minister of Justice. (Applause from the benches of the governing parties.) [[13.00]] Article 9 (4) (j) of the Fundamental Law and the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration Law 205. Pursuant to paragraphs 1 and 4 of the Act, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, Dr. János Bóka, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice and Dr. Bencé Tuzson, State Secretary of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister, was relieved of this mandate with effect from 31 July 2023. Budapest, 4 July 2023 Sincerely, Katalin Novak.
u2023-07-04-48	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear House, Now the solemn oath of the minimen and the signature of the oaths. I would like to inform you that Secretary-General Bence Tuzson has been heard by the Justice Committee and János Bóka by the European Affairs Committee. The committees supported the appointment of ministers in both cases. I now call on the ministers Bence Tuzson and János Bóka to come to the centre of the Chamber and take their oath. I would ask Mr István Tiba to read the text of the oath, and I would ask those in the Chamber to listen to it standing up according to our custom. Here you go, notary. You have the floor. [[The people in this room stand up. Notary Dr. István Tiba reads the words of the oath.]]
u2023-07-04-49	I, Bence Tuzson/János Bóka, vow to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law; I will keep its legislation and keep it with others; I will exercise my office as a minister for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the LMP.]]
u2023-07-04-50	Thank you very much. Take your seats. [[It's happening.]] Dear House, Fellow Members! The oath papers will now be signed. I would ask Mr Vinnai Győző to prepare the oath papers for signature, and I would ask Minister Bence Tuzson and János Bóka to sign them. [[It's happening. The Dr. Winner Vinnai, who signed the oath papers, congratulates Dr. Tuzson Bence and Dr. János Bóka.]] Dear House, Before the usual congratulations take place, allow me first to congratulate the newly elected ministers, Madam President. [[Katalin Novák steps into the middle of the room and congratulates Dr. Bence Tuzson and Dr. János Bóka. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Katalin Novak, who sits in his ministerial seat, approaches Dr. Judit Varga, and shake hands.]] Dear House, Fellow Members! Allow me to congratulate Minister Bence Tuzson and János Bóka on behalf of the Parliament and myself, and wish you every success in performing your work and God's blessing. [[Viktor Orbán, Dr. Zsolt Semjén, László Kövér, Máté Kocsis, Dr. István Simicskó, Dr. Judit Varga, Dr. István Hiller, Imre Ritter, Péter Ungár, Dr. István Apáti congratulates Dr. Bence Tuzson and Dr. János Bóka.]] Thank you very much. Dear House, We're taking a two-minute technical break. (Recess: 13.05-13.08) President: Mr Sándor Lezsák Note: Dr. István Tiba and Dániel Z. Carpathian)
u2023-07-04-51	Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. Following the year 2022, the list of the ministries of Hungary was published in the Official Journal of the European Union. a joint debate on the proposal to amend law in an exceptional procedure. The government referral is T/4545. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, Honourable Parliament, the national speaker will take place. Before giving the floor, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have a total time frame of 25 minutes for the opening speech, for your further speech in the debate and for the presentation of the possible closing phrase. I give the floor to State Secretary Miklós Panyi, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, the author. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2023-07-04-52	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, As you all know, as in 2010-11, in the years 2023-24, Hungary, together with Spain and Belgium, is the trio of the EU Presidency. The Presidency tasks are carried out by the countries on a rotation system, with 13 and a half tasks per year for each EU Member State. At the same time, we can also see the challenges facing the European continent, the Russian-Ukrainian war, the economic impact of the war, the challenges and difficulties arising from post-war settlement, and the economic, energy, competitiveness, demographic and employment policy challenges in Europe in general, not to mention migration. Of course, the list is not exhaustive. [[13.10]] These tasks, these requests, these challenges must be taken seriously, and the government at all times must be responsible for this. This responsible attitude is reflected in the government's position to set up an independent Ministry of EU Affairs for the effective preparation, conduct and follow-up of tasks related to the second half Hungarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2024. Dear House, The current government has the right to determine the structure of the government as a result of its constitutional freedom of organisation. Article 17 (1) of the Fundamental Law states that the list of ministries is provided for by law. In compliance with this constitutional obligation under the Fundamental Law, the bill before us is 1. §2 of the Act complements the scope of the ministries of Hungary with the Ministry of European Union Affairs. The resulting separate wallet will start work on 1 August 2023 by removing it from the Ministry of Justice. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, With the establishment of the Ministry of European Union Affairs, a ministerial representation of the EU Presidency of our country will take place in the government, which, I believe, shows the commitment of Hungary and the Hungarian Government to bring the upcoming Presidency cycle, as it did 12 years ago, to success. Although the programme and implementation of the Hungarian Presidency are still under construction, the construction of the results of the recently launched Spanish and Belgian Presidency programmes, which changed it in January 2024, will also play a key role, as well as cooperation with our Polish friends after Hungary in January 2025. During the Presidency, we will focus on the issue of enlargement of the European Union in the Western Balkans, as the list of EU Member States was last extended in 2013. It was a special joy and success in June 2011 for the previous Hungarian Presidency to conclude negotiations on the accession chapters of our neighbour, Croatia. At the same time, unfortunately, we also see it and it is a cause for sadness that since then there has been no particularly great progress in the enlargement of the Union, and even a narrow one, the British have been lost. Dear Parliament, In view of all this, I ask that you support the bill submitted to Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-07-04-53	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Miklós Panyi. I would like to inform you that you will have 21 minutes and 4 seconds, if I count correctly, for your further comments in the debate and at the end of the debate. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will now be presented. For these, a total of 15 minutes is available. First, I give the floor to Mr Csaba Nagy, rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, for up to eight minutes.
u2023-07-04-54	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 3 July 2023, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/4545, entitled "The Amendment to the Law of 2022 on the Listing of the Ministries of Hungary." Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 28 votes in favour, 5 votes against and 5 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The general objective of the legislative amendment before us is to establish the Ministry of European Affairs by separating itself from the Ministry of Justice. According to the bill, the Ministry will be established in the second half of 2024 in order to prepare and carry out effectively the tasks related to the Hungarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. The amendment tabled and adopted by the Legislative Committee contains technical clarification. Dear House, Given what has been said, I believe that the bill before us should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Nacha Lawrence applauds.]]
u2023-07-04-55	Thank you, Congressman Csaba Nagy. To present the minority opinion, I give the floor to Mr Gy. Mrs Erzsébet Németh, in the maximum time frame of seven minutes.
u2023-07-04-56	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, As my fellow Member, Csaba Nagy, who described the majority opinion of the Legislative Committee, said, this bill was discussed yesterday by the Legislative Committee. As rapporteur for the minority opinion, I would like to say why we do not support this legislative amendment proposal, and a series of amendments came to the committee, and I would like to give a little justification for this. Of course, it is the possibility of the respective governing parties, but also its responsibility to define the governmental structure that they want to control the country, but when it is possible for a minister of justice to be replaced, a minister of justice to be, to say the least, involved in all sorts of difficult transactions, and therefore, the fidesz majority will rescue him from the position of Minister of Justice and divide the scope of the ministry to date, then there is a way to create a new ministry. Obviously, even the argument would be acceptable that all of this would be because Hungary will be the President-in-Office of the Union in 2024, but at the same time it cannot be bypassed, and it cannot be said without saying that if this government already touched on the structure of the ministries, there would be more important areas, more important sectors in the country that deserve a separate ministry, such as relations with the European Union and EU affairs. This is why the Democratic Coalition has tabled an amendment to the Legislative Committee, in which we have proposed that the human sectors that have been in fact among the losing sectors for several years now under the Orbán government should have an independent ministry. Thus, we proposed the establishment of the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Social Affairs. I would like to briefly explain why we should consider this important. In a country where the use of human resources has fallen to about two thirds of the country's GDP compared to 2010 and there are indicators, whether in terms of health care, education or the social care system, there would indeed be a need for a single ministry. I think this is where Fidesz would have had the opportunity to create these ministries. It is not all right, ladies and gentlemen, that the Ministry of the Interior and the Minister of the Interior are responsible for the entire human sector. Perhaps, say, if there had been a Ministry of Education a few hours ago, you would not have adopted the so-called Vengeance Act in this House, or if there were a separate Ministry of Health, there would not have been a very many hospitals closed down or, for example, a complete hospital terminated. [[13.20]] I think the same about the social sector. In a country where the population is getting older and sicker, and it is quite simply difficult for people to resolve how and how they are being cared for, they care for their loved ones who are otherwise in need of care and care, and there should be an independent ministerial responsibility in this matter. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, That is why we cannot support this legislative amendment proposal, and we propose to the government that it should consider that if it has already opened this law, if it already believes that it will create an additional new ministry, it should open itself to human areas instead. Thank you for listening.
u2023-07-04-57	Thank you very much, Gy. Congresswoman Erzsébet Németh. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 30-30 minutes, and the independent Members have 8 minutes in total. The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Csaba Nagy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-07-04-58	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, In the 3 April 2022 election, the Hungarian people made a clear, clear decision: in 2022, the civil side formed the government, receiving 87 individual mandates in the elections, and, on the basis of the votes cast on the lists, the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association's faction has 116 mandates, the Christian Democratic People's Party's Group has 19 mandates. Last year, on 13 May, a bill titled the list of the ministries of Hungary was submitted under Article 6 (1) of the Fundamental Law, which ensured the government's operation with the creation of 11 ministries. I would like to quote three sentences to you from the general justification of the bill. Hungary needs a government that is best suited to respond well to the challenges facing the country. We have a decade of danger ahead of us, a war in our neighbourhood, with serious consequences for Europe as a whole. The most important task of the future new government is to provide answers to the questions of the economic crisis in Europe that has developed as a result of the war situation, which will enable Hungary to maintain its achievements in recent years. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, According to the bill before us, a Ministry of European Union Affairs will be established, which will be separated from the Ministry of Justice. As in 2010-11, Hungary is now the second so-called Presidency trio with Spain and Belgium in 2023-24. In order to prepare for the Presidency of the European Union Council in the second half of 2024 and to effectively prepare and carry out the tasks related to it, the creation of a new ministry was justified in order to give effect to our national interests. Thus, the Ministrys of the Hungarian Government are set up as follows: Agricultural Ministry, Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Energy, Ministry of European Union Affairs from 1 August, Ministry of Construction and Investment, Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Culture and Innovation, Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, Cabinet Office of Prime Minister, Prime Minister's Office, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Technology and Industry. Dear House, I would also like to take this opportunity to thank Minister Dr. Judit Varga for her service from 2019 on international platforms for the protection of our country and Hungarian interests as well as at home. Madam Minister, her strong stand on Karakan has become an example for many, both in the political arena and among voters. The aim of the Minister has always been to protect and strengthen the international acceptance of Hungarian constitutional identity and to increase public confidence in justice. The representation of faith in democratic operation has made our common affairs, including in the field of animal protection, consumer protection, and has made significant progress in the area of victim protection. You have also achieved outstanding and decisive results in defending our country in international space, Minister, let us just think about the conditioning procedure launched against Hungary for questionable political purposes or the judicial package. Madam Secretary, thank you for your work at home and in the EU, and I wish you every success and very good health in the challenges you face. Hungary is counting on you. Ladies and gentlemen, The Parliamentary Group of Fidesz supports the submission by Dr. Zsolt Semjén, Deputy Prime Minister T/4545. II on the list of Ministries of Hungary, 2022. a bill entitled "amendment of law'. I would ask my fellow Members to do the same and to support them with their vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-07-04-59	Thank you very much, Congressman Csaba Nagy. I now give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-07-04-60	Dear House, The thing about this bill is that you've already developed a routine of denying reality that you can't tell the truth even when there's no problem with the truth. We all know what's going on. Judit Varga had to resign, Minister Tuzson did not take on European affairs. This construction was created for Judit Varga, where EU affairs and justice were linked. I'll talk about how successful this construction was later. There's a new minister, they want to create a new structure. There's nothing wrong with that in itself. They could say that this is the intention, now they think that this will be the best solution with these ministers. Instead, they are starting to chitchat as usual, this time about the EU Presidency. Dear Secretary of State, dear fellow Members. A year ago, when this law was adopted after the establishment of the new government, did they not know that there would be a Hungarian EU Presidency? Of course they did. When this law was subsequently amended in the autumn, because, in the framework of well-organised government work, we have, for practically the third time in a year, been amending the law on the listing of ministries... we know that, by the way, this means restructuring and further complications every time, so the fact is, dear fellow Members, that they have no idea what they are doing. But then tell me that we think it's better this week, maybe in a week or a month or a year from now, when another minister comes up with some unsuitable corruption case, then there will be a new minister, and then there will be a new structure. I'm asking you not to come with the EU Presidency, so please be so expensive. In 2011, the EU Presidency was conducted without a separate ministry, otherwise it was quite successful compared to you. You don't need a special ministry for that. The fact is that the EU Presidency of Hungary is not threatened by the fact that there is no other ministry, but by the exact situation in which this government maneuvered itself under Judit Varga; under the leadership of Viktor Orbán and with the enthusiastic help of Judit Varga. The situation is that they cannot otherwise ensure the functioning of democracy and the rule of law in Hungary. The thing is, when they play small-scale games, and they rather let every Hungarian citizen lose a million forints, so that they don't have to fight corruption, so that the rule of law doesn't have to be restored. You are more concerned with the enrichment of fidesz billionaires than with the interests of the country, this is the case, my fellow Members. But this will not be helped by a new ministry, especially not by the Fox Minister, who was Judit Varga's assistant in this area, and who said a year ago that the money would be coming soon. We've been waiting for him ever since. I'm sure you've been on one leg since the money came in. So the situation, ladies and gentlemen, is that the Hungarian EU Presidency is indeed in a very bad situation. It is indeed a very bad situation for the government, but not because there is no ministry, but because you constantly betray EU values and constantly betray EU interests. Because you lie about the European Union without reason. We have just heard this today from our honourable colleagues. You are obviously making a long series of false statements about the European Union, about the EU budget, about what is happening in the European Union. [[13.30]] The Hungarian government has no authority in the European Union, no allies, only opponents and critics. It will be very difficult to conduct a successful EU Presidency from this situation; and if Mr Secretary of State has already highlighted the enlargement of the Western Balkans, it will be very difficult for Hungary to achieve results on the Western Balkans enlargement, when the Hungarian Government is, by the way, the troublemaker of the Western Balkans, which supports the Dodik Bosnian Republic of Serbia and thus destabilises Bosnia and Herzegovina and supports Serbia in the kind of struggle that led to the attack of Hungarian soldiers in Kosovo. This is your Western Balkans policy, which is the result of your Western Balkans policy. Well, it's gonna be hard to represent the enlargement of the Western Balkans from this position. However, if we return to the government structure for a moment, we also need to ask what Tibor Navracsics is doing after all. What's his job? What's his business? He was the one we heard for a year and a half that he would go to the Union, bring the money home! He brought the money home once a month, but he didn't show up once! The fact is, they also create a duality in this way. I do not know what relationship the two ministers have with each other, but if they had already touched this structure, it would have been more reasonable to put the development part of European affairs in a single ministry, instead of maintaining a previously personalised, unlucky solution. That's just foam on the cake, cherry on the whipped cream, that Minister, Minister Fox, has already taken the oath. If it were a democracy in Hungary now and if Parliament could vote off the bill you tabled, then why would the Minister of the Fox be? Tell me, will you? Finally, I would also like to say what you are not solving in this bill, and we are obliged to say this every time. Because the government has a great freedom of organisation, every government has the right to operate as it thinks it is most effective, within a certain sense of reason. But, I'm sorry, it doesn't fit into the common sense that there is no meaningful representation of environmental protection in the government today, let alone at ministerial level, but at any level there is virtually no responsibility for environmental protection in the government today. From now on, you can explain, excuse me, the Prime Minister about how strict environmental standards are, but there is no one to enforce them, because there is simply no organizational system, no ministry, no representation. On the other hand, we all thought that when we saw the Ministry of Human Resources running amok in human areas, that it couldn't get any worse, that it couldn't get any lower. I have to admit, we were wrong about this case. You have been able to make things worse, because the fact that health, education and social affairs have been placed under the Ministry of Interior has resulted in a much worse outcome from the point of view of the ministerial structure, so this should be stopped as a matter of urgency. That is why the Democratic Coalition has submitted, as the Member mentioned, a proposal which, once we have opened this law, would create a self-employed Ministry of Education, Health, Social Affairs and the Environment, and not because the existence of an independent ministry alone would solve the situation of these sectors, but because responsible sectoral management is a condition that these sectors can be put in order after 13 years of destruction. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2023-07-04-61	Thank you, Congressman Gergely Arató. I now give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party. You have the floor.
u2023-07-04-62	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Harvester...
u2023-07-04-63	The microphone, it probably doesn't work. Is your card in there?
u2023-07-04-64	Yeah. [[The microphone is back on line.]] Now maybe. Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond to Mr Harvester. With new ministers, a changing structure is created, which is what the law is about. He said we were afraid to say it. Well, that's exactly right. So far, we have agreed with what you have to say, and Gy. Erzsébet Németh also explained why separate ministries should be set up. Let us recall the time when Hungary had either an independent Ministry of Education or an independent Ministry of Health or an independent Ministry of Labour. You say that the fundamental success of a policy depends on whether you have an independent ministry or do not have an independent ministry. We don't think that's how the world works, and that's not how the government works, either, because it's going to make something successful, whether it has a independent ministry or not. Consider some examples. In your time, it was the Ministry of Education. This was the time when thousands of teachers were dismissed from their jobs, and 381 small settlements made it impossible to study locally, so schools were closed. This was the balance sheet of your Ministry of Education. In your time, there was a separate Ministry of Health. This Ministry of Health closed 16,000 active hospital beds, closed eight hospitals, while their health minister said that there would be no hospital closure, and Ferenc Gyurcsány even wanted to arrest gynecologists with police. It was your independent Ministry of Health's activity. Recall Lajos Molnár, honourable Member, and Ferenc Gyurcsány's conversation. In your time, there was an independent Ministry of Labour, 12 percent unemployment, and hundreds of thousands of people were forced into humiliating aid. This was the balance of your governance, so it is clear from this point that it is not at all the key to success or the key to successful policy that there is an independent ministry of an area, or that the areas of responsibility are grouped into another kind of ministerial structure. You have, as best you can, ruined education as best you can, ruined health care as much as possible, spoiled the situation in the labour market, the labour market. Yet there was an independent ministry to this, my fellow Members. From here we can see that the left-wing mantra, which was said here by DK, is an obvious lie, because they themselves were an integral part of that structure and even shapers; as State Secretary, MEPs sitting here as ministers took a leading position at the time in destroying Hungarian health, education and the labour market. And now they are the ones who say that this or this area should be an independent ministry. And yes, honourable Member, you spoke in a rather eloquent manner about the Presidency of the European Union and its prospects and situation, Mr Arató. We can also decode the reason for this. I'll tell you who wouldn't know this background information. This is because in 2010, when we took over government, we had to face a very serious problem: of course, the corruption that struck the sky, which marked the Gyurcsány government. [[Deterioration in DK's benches.]] ; Of course, we had to face one thing, honourable Members, that there was nothing prepared for the 2011 EU Presidency, among other things. Nothing was ready! We stood there, even three quarters of a year before our EU Presidency, but nothing was prepared by the Bajnai and Gyurcsány governments. There was no policy, there were no expected results, there were no negotiated locations, there were no ministerial negotiations, there was nothing, fellow Members! That is why the eyes and political sense of DK representatives are disturbed by the fact that we want to prepare properly for our EU Presidency, as we did in 2011; in a very, very short time, in Europe, we have carried out a very successful and successful Presidency programme in record time. [[In the notary seat Dr. István Tiba will be replaced by Attila Gelencsér.]] For example, it is enough to look at the fact that the European Union's policy in this direction has been living and feeding on that adopted Roma strategy and its various conclusions. From this point of view, therefore, we can immediately understand the underlying logic of the DK speeches, and we can see why Gergely Arató or Gy is talking about this. Elizabeth Németh. The Ministry of European Union Affairs will be elected from the Ministry of Justice. And I would also like to thank Minister Judit Varga for her work so far, of course, we are counting on her in the future, and I think that it is important that she does what she will do in the next period; she needs Judit Varga in Europe, she needs politicians like Judit Varga in order to reform the European Union and stop the loss of all common sense in Brussels. [[13.40]] That's why there's going to be a department with a purely judicial profile after this, and there's going to be a Ministry of European Union Affairs. The answer to Mr Arató's legal appeal is that both, the appointment of ministers and the law on the list of ministries to be adopted by Parliament, will enter into force on 1 August, so that he cannot discover any legal gaps in it, since the entry into force of both on 1 August. On behalf of KDNP, we would like to congratulate Bence Tuzson and János Bóka. We wish them good work. I think they will have difficult battles and an important role to play. I think it is very important to make the EU Presidency a success. I think it is very important that we do not allow ourselves to be distracted from the speeches, speeches and, of course, digs of representatives and politicians who support Hungary's failure. Gergely Arató raised the issue of EU money. As a matter of fact, I can list two DK politicians, who, in public, had a sudden fit of honesty. I know it's very rare for a DK congressman. Csaba Molnár said that he felt he had a patriotic obligation to avoid receiving EU funds from Hungarian NGOs, Hungarian teachers, Hungarian municipalities and Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. For you, it is patriotism if Hungarian teachers do not receive the EU funds they are entitled to. And there is Ferenc Gyurcsány, who said that they were there when the attacks on Hungary had to be invented, when the inexorable conditions had to be formulated. You were there when these words of Ferenc Gyurcsány tried to wrap political attacks in legal robes, so it is quite clear that Gergely Arató's statement of EU funds is nothing more than an act, because Gergely Arató, who is a member of DK's presidency, knows exactly what they have done to prevent Hungary from getting the funds it rightly deserves. And what have they done to this end? You hate us more than you love the chapter on your work, because you decided at a Presidency meeting that it would be good if it hurt the country, if civil society organisations, local governments, teachers and small businesses did not receive EU funds. We don't think that's a good attitude. We need to change that. We will support the law on the list of ministries on behalf of KDNP. We wish the new ministers good luck, and I ask them not to be influenced by DK's minework in the highest level of care for their work and in the patriotic spirit. We're not gonna get that from DK, but it's okay if it doesn't bother us. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-07-04-65	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I now give the floor to Mr Péter Balassa, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2023-07-04-66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Guests! Firstly, I would like to express my thanks to President Richard Hörcsik, whom I have worked with in the Committee on European Affairs. It is regrettable that he must resign because of such an amendment and instead place Judit Varga in the Committee on European Affairs. I'll tell you why. We're sitting in a movie, but we're not watching a movie. In silence with Mr Nacsa's speech, we would not have had this debate today if Judi Varga hadn't resigned or canceled. How does the Hungarian Parliament and your government propaganda work? We'll replace a minister, fly him to Brussels, instead we'll create a ministry. That's not what you promised a year ago. When we listened to Mr Tibor Navracsics and Judit Varga in the Committee on European Affairs, they said that they would go through this cycle with 11 ministries, that they would want to go through this cycle as cheaply as possible and with as few ministries as possible. We have seen it since the resignation of László Palkovics, and it continued to expand and create additional ministries. And all they're doing now is putting Judit Varga in the chair of the Committee on European Affairs, and then next year he'll be taken to Brussels as the list leader of the European Parliament elections. That's not what you promised, gentlemen. Yesterday in the Committee on European Affairs, in the debate, we listened to Mr State Secretary, Minister, Mr Bóka, who told us how he thought the future would be. I said it myself, and the Jobbik-Conservatives said their point of view. One of the most pressing issues is what each of my fellow Members is saying, and I would like to underline this three times now, is that the Jobbik-Conservatives and I myself are here in Parliament, and our MEP is also working to get the European Union's money to the Hungarian people, because that is what they deserve. I myself, and I hope, that every single Member of Parliament is working on this, and that is how it should be. Another question is that because of your discredited policy, these funds won't arrive. I took out a material, which I said yesterday at the committee meeting, and if you were here, say, Tibor Navracsics or someone from the European Affairs Committee, you could control it. I am sorry that no one from the Committee on European Affairs is here at the moment on the part of the governing party, even though they could reflect or a debate could arise. The fact that we are talking about huge sums of money is no more proof than we are listening to the money that Hungary is entitled to. Out of the 2021-27 budget, EUR 21.7 billion will be granted to Hungary, of which 8.4 billion agricultural subsidies will not be affected by the various freezings in force. The remaining EUR 13.3 billion would be unavailable for the time being and EUR 5.9 billion of the recovery fund would be non-refundable and EUR 9.6 billion of loans. So if we add all the frozen frameworks together, we see that Hungary has been shut down from nearly EUR 30 billion. Once again, Hungary has been blocked from EUR 30 billion. If we multiply by an exchange rate of EUR 400, there will be a very serious amount of money coming out of this. But what about 45% of the multiannual financial framework, about EUR 6 billion, which, according to the Hungarian government, would now be due. At present, this framework is also frozen, because the European Commission has found that the Hungarian judicial system does not meet the horizontal eligibility criteria, and therefore no money can be transferred from any of the funds to Hungary. I think that's the point of the debate. If I count the velvet chairs here, I don't know where Mr. Fox is going to sit, because there aren't so many velvet chairs. Or will they sit on each other's laps? The joke aside, you can call it Navracsich, you can call it the Fox, you can call it Judit Varga or you can call it any congressman, it won't depend on that. It will depend on what credible policy you will pursue either in our country or in the European Union. Money is for Hungarian people. As Viktor Orbán stated where the money is, so the Hungarian people can ask where the money is. Butcher Lawrence? Or where's the money? There is unprecedented inflation, unprecedented economic problems, and you are creating ministries. There's only one thing that matters and one thing that matters, and that's credibility. And once again, I stress three times that these European Union funds are due to Hungarian people. Yesterday at the committee meeting I also underlined and said that we cannot support this bill. I abstained from voting because I believe that it is not up to you to create ministries or to put new cadres in different velvet chairs, but to what policy you will pursue. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2023-07-04-67	Thank you very much, Congressman Péter Balassa. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Two-minute speeches are possible. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, DK.
u2023-07-04-68	Thank you very much. Mr Nacsa's criticism is certainly justified in one respect, because, if I count correctly, he was roughly in high school at the time of our administration, and our efforts to strengthen the education of the text were apparently not successful in his case. Because, Congressman, I have also said that the creation of an independent ministry alone does not solve the problems of the sectors, but is a condition for that. The reason you know, let's say, is that I had to account for the situation of education at the time, because then there was a responsible leadership of education. And while you are not telling the truth about the situation of education at that time, you would at least have this debate with whom to conduct it. Just as you cannot interpret, for example, the words of Csaba Molnár or Ferenc Gyurcsány. Csaba Molnár and Ferenc Gyurcsány clearly said that we are doing everything we can to prevent you from stealing EU funds so that the world of corruption swamps and fidesz billionaires will not absorb these EU funds. I will simply translate it for the sake of the Member: we do not regret EU funds from Hungarian teachers, but from Lőrinc Mészáros, István Tiborcz and members of the Orbán family, honourable Member. We would like to prevent these resources from getting to them, not just by hand or by hand, but, let's say, to Hungarian teachers, Hungarian businesses, to small businesses and not just to billionaires or even to Hungarian municipalities. So I must say to my fellow Member that, contrary to what you say, we are working to get the resources back to Hungary, we are working to ensure that your desire for power and your corruption do not make it impossible for these resources to arrive in Hungary. That is why we have submitted a legislative package and an anti-corruption package that would guarantee that these resources will arrive in Hungary. Unfortunately, you did not allow these proposals to be put on the agenda. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]] [[13.50]]
u2023-07-04-69	Thank you very much, Congressman Gergely Arató. Dear Parliament, Further speeches by Members are possible in the remaining timeframes. I give you the floor, Gy. Ms Erzsébet Németh, representative of DK.
u2023-07-04-70	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Well, I, too, would like to say a few things to Congressman Nacha. You know, Congressman, the fact that setting something with great determination, great vehemency, even here in this House, doesn't make it true. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Say that to Gergely Harvester!]] But we're used to it from you. We're used to it. I'd like to say some things to you with a little quieter, a little more restraint, but more truth. So, what you're asking is that health care was successful before 2010. Well, it must have been a success, Congressman Nacsa, that it was then possible to give birth at Mosonmagyaróvár Hospital, Sátoraljaújhely, that they did not shut down complete cardiology departments. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Complete hospitals have been shut down! Hospitals!]] And let's just say that 30 percent of all the money people spent on health care wasn't taken out of their own pockets to private health. Well, I'm sure it was more successful. It was also more successful in the fact that we did not miss 9,000 workers from our hospitals. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You've fired a lot!]] The social area was certainly more successful than you, of course, didn't it, as my fellow Member Arató said, then it was possible to find those responsible for this story, because I think that social workers were paid much better by the government at the time, and we didn't make such a difference, for example, between home care people who are in such a distress or a sad situation that they have to care for their children, they can have higher income from the state, while, let's say, a parent or a spouse is only entitled to this type of care. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: How much was that?! How much was it?!]] Education has come up. Well, it certainly was more successful, Congressman Nacsa, from the point of view of not missing 16,000 teachers, for example, from schools. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You've fired so much!]] And because of the Vengeance Act voted on today, I'm sure you wouldn't have given up 5,000 teachers, which, by September, everyone is likely to have. The students were better, the children's performance at the PISA survey, the results were better. So summa summarum, Congressman, I believe that at that time the human area in Hungary was in a better position, and how that is so, it all proves that you have entrusted the management of these very sensitive areas to a Minister of the Interior, a police general. I would also like to add to the EU funds that I understand that there was a former Prime Minister in Hungary called Viktor Orbán in 2006, when he said in Strasbourg that the Union would not give Hungary the EU's EU funds, he did so in front of the MEPs. So I suggest, honourable Member, that you take a moment to reflect on the situation that you have developed in this country in 13 years, and I believe that if you go into this, you will not say such untrue sentences. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-07-04-71	Thank you very much, Gy. Congresswoman Erzsébet Németh. I give the floor to Secretary of State Csaba Latorcai.
u2023-07-04-72	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I am now listening to a number of opposition attempts by the left to try to add the issue of EU money to this bill. You guys... [[Gergely Arato: That was Congressman Nacsa! Lot. Erzsébet Németh: Congressman Nacsa! Gergely Harvesto: He's not left-wing, but...! The president's ringing the bell.]] We've heard of Jobbik or the Ballik, or DK, trying to bring this topic here. Let us record, ladies and gentlemen, that European Union money is due to Hungary, that Hungarian entrepreneurs are entitled to [[Kálmán Olga: Just don't steal it!]] the Hungarian people, no matter how much you try to make it a common policy in Brussels in order to prevent it [[Kálmán Olga: Stealing!]] so that the Hungarian people and Hungarian businesses can have access to the money they deserve. They are trying to make the Hungarian people, Hungarian entrepreneurs, disappear their money, and they are trying to use it to raise the wages of Brussels bureaucracy or to escalate the Ukrainian war. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh intervenes.]] This is what your Members of the European Parliament are working on, and we are meeting these statements on a road-by-way basis. [[Kálmán Olga: Your lying posters!]] The other, in which, again, I see that the left does not agree here, Jobbik and DK, that there are now few ministries or many ministries. One object is to have a ministry on five or six topics, and the other voice on the left is to object to the establishment of new ministries. Of course, I know that Ferenc Gyurcsány donated ministerial posts in order to bribe his opponents in the party, which is also a form of corruption somewhere, when we talk about corruption [[Defiance in DK's ranks.]] But thank God we have these times behind us. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh intervenes.]] I also understand that they do not support the establishment of the Ministry of European Affairs, as this ministry will strengthen the representation and enforcement of Hungarian national interests in Brussels. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] We have also learned that you do not support anything that means international enforcement and representation of Hungarian interests. And the fact that DK is here talking about corruption is quite penetrating when the dollar left is floating up to its neck in the corruption swamp of foreign funding. [[Lot. Elizabeth Németh: Oh, no! Kálmán Olga intervenes.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, I think you should explain that. [[Kálmán Olga: To the Völner!]] Because it doesn't explain that all sorts of fundraisers are supposed to have been thrown into Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County by your supporters. [[Kálmán Olga: Ask him!]] Explain that to me. [[Kálmán Olga: Ask the affected! Zsolt Gréczy: Ask him! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-07-04-73	Thank you very much, Csaba Latorcai. There will be further speakers, first Lóránt Keresztes, representative of the LMP.
u2023-07-04-74	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Several of my fellow Members have missed the fact that we need to be clear why we are discussing this motion now, why this transformation is taking place. Well, precisely because the case of corruption came up, because a rather scandalous case was discovered by the authorities, revealed by the press, which was related to the Ministry of Justice, so the truth is..., sorry, according to the prosecution, the former Deputy Minister of Justice, Pál Völner, who has been the face of the Ministry of Justice for many years, according to the prosecutor's office for years served the executive mafia, took bribes in his pockets, and, abusing his power and influence, he was involved in quite disgusting things, and we know that the result of the operation of this executive mafia is the destruction of thousands of Hungarian families and Hungarian people, while, by the way, they have put billions in their pockets. It has also been said in several comments that there is a serious task for the two ministers of the ministry, which is thus divided. I would just like to mention these matters very briefly, that we are talking about an excellent ministry from the Ministry of Justice, and, indeed, here, Mr Répássy, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, is sitting, and there are very serious tasks to be done for Minister Bence Tuzson, and I also said this at the hearing of the Commission the other day; it is necessary to put the system of implementation on a completely different footing, it is necessary to make fundamental changes, because it is apparent that this system was the hotbed for this mafia activity and everything else that has been achieved in Hungary. It's very clear what happened at the Ministry. There were a lot of things that came out of the various witness statements based on information that could be heard from the press, which shows that in the Ministry of Justice, a lot of people knew what was going on there, and we know that the cases that were not included in the indictment will not be dealt with by the court, so that the new Minister of Justice will have to deal with them. And likewise, one of the most important tasks of building and setting up a new enforcement system is that, for those who have been justified by the illegal taking of assets by corrupt executives, compensation must be made for them. I hope that Minister Bence Tuzson, if he has not answered this question specifically, will feel that this task is his own. And then the establishment of the Ministry of European Affairs in brief. It is true, indeed, that the government receiving the mandate has the right to determine what kind of departmental structure you want to work in, and you obviously have the majority to vote for this, although I also find it odd that the Minister has just taken the oath, but there is no ministry yet, and it will take place on Friday to vote on this. Obviously, there is no doubt that you will be able to vote for this, and obviously the LMP faction will not vote for this. [[14.00]] I also acknowledge and accept that it is not a devil at all to set up a ministry on European affairs, even if there is a very significant difference of opinion in the structure of the ministry. We explained this in detail in the debates last year, and recently, for example, the importance of setting up a Ministry of the Environment, a ministry dealing with such matters, was also discussed in detail. So, overall, it is not a problem at all if there is a ministry of this kind, but it does not really solve, help or influence the preparation for the EU Presidency. I can also agree deeply with the words of the speakers that we have entered a time of danger, we are facing quite amazing challenges, and indeed we must work with all our might to ensure that national interests can be enforced in the policy of the European Union. I can even agree that the European Union, in its present form, let us put it mildly, needs fundamental reforms with extremely serious problems. We have always supported Hungary's place of European integration, of course, to be among the members of the European Union, but fundamental changes are needed, to make the functioning of the European Union more transparent and democratic, and to transform its operation in such a way as to be able to respond to the most important issues of fate, to the most important challenges, which, unfortunately, is not the case in many cases, in many cases, the European Union's political elite is paralyzed about how global processes are happening, which indeed affect the lives and futures of all European citizens, including all Hungarians. [[Z. Kárpat is replaced by Bernadett Bakos in the notary seat.]] It can also be seen, on the basis of recent examples, that corruption is deeply embedded in the functioning of the European Union, and we also know how many thousand lobbyists represent the lobbying interests of various gigantic giant companies in a way that is, to say the least, highly opaque. So there is corruption in the functioning of the European Union. Here, fundamental changes are needed to make the European Union's operation more transparent and truly democratic. We are also seeing huge challenges in European politics in protecting our natural resources. Very, very often, the EU fails to operate, and we can also see how many times we are in a difficult situation in cross-border environmental matters in the middle of the Carpathian Basin. We have seen the process of the terrible natural disaster on the river Sajó, due to the incompetence and unpreparedness of the Slovak government, and we can also see how serious pollution is on the tributaries of the Tisza Transylvania, not so long ago there was a shocking pollution on the river Bsterce. We can see how many mining sites and various narrators pose a very serious threat to these rivers and to the Hungarian part of these rivers. Similarly, the European Union faces enormous challenges in terms of protection of workers' interests. It is also an important issue in which I think we may agree to the greatest extent that, with regard to the issue of indigenous national minorities, we can say that the European Union's political elite is not sensitive at all, it is not at all in the way that it would be expected. In many respects, the Hungarians living abroad are obviously the victim of this. We can see what shocking anti-Hungarian outbursts we are witnessing in European Union countries and neighbouring countries, and when it comes to such matters, the political elite of the European Union is looking away. Moreover, it was shocking that the European Commission, for example, did not follow the right decision of the European Parliament in the case of the Minority SafePack, nor did it ever wash its hands again, and thought that it had no legislative pressure or legislative opportunity. Indeed, European policy must be more capable of protecting the rights of indigenous national minorities. Mr Secretary of State mentioned the issue of migration in his exposé. I think that this should be taken very seriously. We have been talking about this for many years, we can say that it is almost permanent in the Parliament. This is a very old, tangible problem, but it was introduced before 2010, let's say, into the front of political thinking. I think it should be clear to everyone that this is not a problem that can be solved in a year or two or even in a decade or two. If we cannot make a meaningful contribution to the effects of climate change or to the challenges of agricultural production, the supply of drinking water, then an amazing number of newer and newer millions will become climate refugees, and this will be a huge challenge globally, a huge challenge for the European Union as well. We have always been consistent in the need to protect the external borders of the European Union, to stop illegal migration, and we also have a very strong view that immigration policy must always be kept in national competence. Therefore, we have always rejected and reject these mandatory distribution quotas. We are also consistent in this regard. At the same time, we are very critical to everyone, including the Hungarian government, when it does not pay enough attention to addressing migration in depth, the causes of this crisis, and try to develop some kind of meaningful cooperation. Indeed, the most important thing is to address these root causes. Obviously, we expect the new minister to take decisions to this end, which can be taken at national level, to represent them, to make these decisions and thus to provide Hungary with a framework for functioning in the European political space. In addition to migration, an extremely important challenge and the government's color changes are strongly reflected in this process, which we can see now, that they want to install foreign migrant workers into Hungary in an amazing and amazing number, not only tens of thousands, but, we can say, hundreds of thousands of guest workers in Hungary. I have said many times in plenary during the debates that the most serious challenge for the nation is the exodus of hundreds of thousands of Hungarians, and that many people have simply left the country because of low wages and living problems. A few years ago, one of your State Secretarys said that there was nothing wrong with that, because the common European labour market only works, and that is the most natural thing in the world. We can see that hundreds of thousands of people have left Hungary because of poor economic policy, thousands of Hungarian families have been torn apart because of this, and on the other hand you are now seeking to recruit migrant workers to provide labour for foreign battery factories and other dangerous plants. We believe that this is an unacceptable and fundamental interest for Hungary, it is a fundamental national interest that the Hungarians can thrive in the homeland today, and those who have left forcedly migrated, we can give Hungary the opportunity to return, and we do not need hundreds of thousands of migrant workers. Indeed, it can also be said in general, which is one of the most serious criticisms of the functioning of the European Union, that it does not sufficiently ensure balanced territorial development, that everyone can remain in their homeland, and that it is generally typical that rural areas across the European Union, not only in Hungary, are facing extremely serious challenges, and that European policy has not been able to deal with these issues properly. These questions will also have to be answered by the new Ministry. One more sentence on development money, please. We have always been very firm in our opinion that these funds are due to Hungary, these funds are due to the Hungarian people, and we would never support or support a policy that would imply that these funds will be withdrawn from the Hungarian people because of a corrupt government or because of failed government decisions. So we condemn this kind of policy, but also the Hungarian government, who, by the way, put these resources, which, again, involve Hungary, in jeopardy with the historical level of corruption and the failed decisions. Obviously, it is a fundamental national interest for these development resources to arrive in Hungary as soon as possible and to arrive at the Hungarian people as soon as possible. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2023-07-04-75	Thank you very much, Congressman László Keresztes. The next speaker is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik.
u2023-07-04-76	Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, the debate was extensive compared to the general one. Basically, it's the Ministry structure, and here the basic attitude of the Jobbik-Conservative community is that responsibility belongs to the government. So you can throw the ball back to us in all sorts of cases, for example, you can say that you don't have the resources to raise a teacher's salary, by the way, the point is that at the end of the line and at the end of the day, the responsibility is yours. It follows from this statement that if the responsibility is yours, then let them work in a structure that they find appropriate, because that is what we will and will be able to account for at the end of the cycle. I would add that so far, over the course of the cycles, we had almost always had to get involved in this structure, and although I alone have no problem with it, because the world is changing and these changes have to be followed, but we can already have a problem with the way we get involved, and that is what we need to talk about here. So, overall, we would prefer to have a modest ministerial structure with fewer expenditures and a more slicker governance, but there are ministries that I would be able to sword with, like, an independent Ministry of Health. The fact is, however, that this debate has gone towards EU funds, and it is absolutely right to talk about it. My fellow Member, Nacsa, has also done so by extending the debate around here, but let us be clear: this is not about giving Hungary any kind of charity or additional benefits; these are the hard way for us. [[14.10]] There is the government's historic failure to risk drawing on these funds and their usability, even though I'm telling you a very good way to exploit them. Once they are translated into this incredibly bad rhetoric and wrong economic policy, the EU funds obtained could and should be grouped into a Hungarian wage development fund to which the Hungarian small entrepreneur, the medium-sized entrepreneur, can turn directly if he wants to develop wages and receives support. The fact is that you are constantly pampering multinational companies with hundreds of billions of dollars, giving them unilateral subsidies from Hungarian taxpayers' money, and do not do the same for Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, even though if you look at the market, it is not only the multinational companies that carry it on their backs. Well, who gives two thirds of the jobs? The Hungarian micro-, small- and medium-sized enterprises, and somehow each year they have such a negative package before they bleed out the cat, but we could continue the line for a very long time, which sends these people something wrong. It is therefore very, very urgent for EU funds to be used, and in this direction it would be urgent, but what we see is that your misguided economic policy and rhetoric are exactly undermining this. This alone will not be changed by the change in the ministerial structure that a so far two-area ministry is being dismantled and torn apart, but what we see is that we know nothing about their further action that would be down on the table in order to obtain EU funds. We did not see it during the budget debate, nor did we see it very much in the communication space. We have seen that some of their political leaders have already made shady statements that this store is actually leaving without EU funds, so there was a kind of conditioning attempt in the direction of what will happen to us if there are no such resources at all. I would warn Hungary not to plan so slickly on the revenue side, and at the same time to plan the replacement of this loss of income from very, very expensive foreign sources, with tremendous interest expenditure. Why do I say that? If we look at the budgets one by one, usually 1000 billion, 1200 billion, this was the budget's interest burden for many years, and now we have reached a time when we are already 2000 billion and then 3000 billion in the area of interest payments alone. Obviously, if you have to farm this out of the budget, you're gonna take this away from somewhere else, and we're gonna see where it's taken from. Now we are talking about the fact that family support, which has been treated as a saint, has also begun to be squeezed. I think it is very important to talk about this, because when it comes to the structure of the Ministry and I address it to Mr Latorcai State Secretary, there are some ministries that I can defend. For example, there is the family issue, which has been classified under the Ministry of Innovation, and is dealt with by excellent professionals, but not by an independent ministry. I say that demography, family affairs and housing, for example, deserve an independent ministry in Hungary. Let's deal with this problem on her weight, assign her a budget. I'm not telling you which ministries could be narrowed down or cut, because this is not necessarily the subject of this positive line of thought, because it could be built here: housing, family affairs, demography. And the baby shower and the cutbacks are symbolic. I am in favour of extending the family support system. I would like this system to follow inflation, because Hungary's biggest problem is its demographic disaster, and simply a KSH google show that both the number of live births are at a catastrophic level, as well as the emigration data of previous years. So when you're looking for an answer to the labour shortage, most of the answer is in Western Europe, under duress, for higher wages. And once again, a budget season has gone down, where there is no evidence that you are trying to lure these forced-out young Hungarians home. There is no housing programme, there is no national state-based housing programme, many years ago we put it on the table, yet there is nothing similar in your toolbox, and we are going back to EU funds again. The use of these would have been available in the housing segment before, but the Government of Hungary decided to use EU funds for energy efficiency, insulation and housing only for public buildings and public institutions, and does not open this framework for the civilian population, even though it would have been a very long-term tool not only to reduce overhead costs, but also to enable them to thrive in the homeland. I am very pleased that this concept has just been mentioned, because it should be subject to everything and, by the way, also the ministerial structure. We see that when the baby shower changes so that although a cosmetic increase is made at the amount, it is still not inflation-following, but after a grace period, the 30-40-year-olds are simply excluded from this construction, and at the CSOK, the legislator says that they can stay in a village, but not in the cities, then I ask you: what is the message for our family plans, 30-40-town countrymen? There's no tangible message. You say you'll work something out by the end of the year. And I'm saying that you can argue about a new one, or you have to lead out the previous one if it doesn't meet the goal, if the new one's already on the table, and you know its conditionality. So what we see is that this is definitely a restriction. In any case, the lack of EU funds is limited. What has happened with the exchange rate of the forint in the last few years should be a restriction on the rate at which governance was taken over in 2010 and, overall, this is very, very expensive for families. So it is possible to redefine the ministerial structure, but at the end of the day, again, the most important aspect would be whether or not it is easier to thrive in the homeland. Is it easier to get a home on your own in Hungary? In order to buy an apartment in Budapest, 16.2 years of average income should be set aside in statistical terms, there is obviously a better and worse case, 16.2 years! Horrorist amount! You do not know what to say to these Hungarians, who are 30-40, urban, want to have children, want to thrive in the homeland, and do not have a career on the table with the help of the family support system. So far, you've had hope for something, and then you've lost the state's leg of housing savings, and now you're cutting the baby shower and the CSOK, so the possibilities and living conditions that would otherwise be addressed to the most important age groups are constantly narrowing down. You can't prioritize the age group, of course, I admit that, but the most endangered are those who are not sure that they can manage in their homeland. All in all, I would therefore like to call upon you to change and not to endanger the acquisition of the resources that are otherwise due to us, and not to think that by transforming the ministerial structure in itself, this problem has been solved, because unfortunately it is not at all. Thank you for your attention.
u2023-07-04-77	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian notary, Member. The next speaker is Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2023-07-04-78	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Lot. Congresswoman Erzsébet Németh came to me and said that I was making up lies. [[Intercoms from DK's ranks. Gergely Harvestó: Quiet, Lawrence, quiet! The president's ringing the bell.]] But he couldn't tell me which part wasn't true. I said you shut down hospitals. Is that true or not true? Is it true or isn't it true that hospitals have been shut down? [[Great Csaba: True!]] Schöpf-Mereit, Buda MÁV Hospital, Borsod dialysis center, Kecskemét Airport Hospital, Paradfürdő State Hospital and, for example, OPNI. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Which one did you open?]] So you shut these down while your friend, Lajos Molnár, said they wouldn't shut down hospitals. Is that right? You have eliminated all active beds in many hospitals: Bonyhád, Kapuvar, Szikszó, Várpalota, Zirc, Nagykőrös, Sopron sanatorium, St. Rókus Hospital in Budapest. That was your health policy. A visitation fee has been introduced, doctors have been laid off, a month's wages have been taken from the nurses, and that was your... facts, my honourable Member, and you have not been able to argue with that. In your time, health care was destroyed. According to OECD data, healthcare expenditure per capita decreased in only one country during that period: Hungary. Between OECD Member States [[Lot. Elizabeth Németh is shaking her head.]] Just one... look at it, honourable Congresswoman. It is possible to shake its head, so it was, in one of the OECD Member States, that health expenditure per capita has decreased in Hungary, under your governance. But let's look at the education, because the congresswoman has also brought it here, that in your time the education has soared and the good results have been achieved by the students and the education system. Between 2002-2006, under the leadership of Péter Medgyessy and Ferenc Gyurcsány, the number of public and municipal kindergartens and schools decreased by 616. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: But there was a 50 percent wage increase, right?!]] This represented 10 percent of the total number of institutions. 10 percent of the total number of institutions has been closed. 381 small villages have eliminated the possibility of direct education; 381 small villages, ladies and gentlemen! [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] What happened? Kindergarten and kindergarten meals paid off in your time. [[14.20]] You didn't have to pay before, and then you had to pay. You said that families should suffer and pay for their meals in daycare and kindergarten. What have you done with the National Book Publisher? We sat here as representatives, you supported these decisions to privatise the National Book Publisher to Ferenc Gyurcsány's friend, a profitable publisher at a price below. One billion more was the cheapest offer, honourable Member, for the National Book Publisher, but one billion cheaper it was given to Ferenc Gyurcsány's buddy, and then the price of textbooks skyrocketed. These are the facts I mentioned, these are the events that you have supported here with your vote. Gergely Arató also supported and prepared these matters as a government decision with his vote and even as a member of the government. Are you talking about a lack of teachers, honourable Member? 14,000 teachers were fired during your administration. 14 grand! He likes to refer to KSH here. Look at this, honourable Member: 14,000! Yeah, and then cynically, Gergely Arató said the other day that they didn't, they just didn't give the money to get fired by the local authorities, so they didn't fire him, they fired him. It's very, very cynical, and I think it's very offensive for teachers to try and deny it. Let's see what your EU policy was like. EU funds have been brought here on a regular basis. In your time, when you managed cohesion funds, there was a loss of resources in Hungary. You weren't able to draw the resources that we had and had. [[Zsolt Gréczy: You're lying!]] and should have applied, should have been produced, should have submitted meaningful programmes; and Hungary has suffered a loss of resources for you, honourable Member. [[Kálmán Olga: Doesn't reality bother you?]] Independent-object journalists who are never disturbed by the facts of their discernment [[Kálmán Olga: Oh, how funny! The president's ringing the bell.]] Isn't that right, Congresswoman? Disprove that eight hospitals have been shut down. You can't deny it. Deny the introduction of a visitation fee. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: Which one did you open again? Zsolt Gréczy: Which one did you open again?]] Disprove that 14,000 teachers have been fired. Disprove that the school has been closed in 381 settlements. Disprove that the number of public, municipal kindergartens, nursery schools, schools has been reduced by 616. These are the fruits of your activities. It is possible to paint another cinema here, because it has been given to you that Ferenc Gyurcsány must be protected and our lives and blood, but that is not what has happened, honourable Member. You brought me here how well this system worked during that period. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: So-so!]] While we are talking about the division of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of European Union Affairs in the list of ministries. Why is it splitting up? [[Kálmán Olga: Commissioner Völner will tell you in court!]] It's perfectly clear. This was also said by my fellow Member, the Secretary of State said, as from 1 August it will be. Because you try to disguise your government's total incompetence by trying to make the ministers of Fidesz-KDNP look bad in some way, and trying to get involved in their policies in some way, while now we see that these tools are growing; because they used to be just a nokiss box, now a closed fundraising box is a symbol of corruption, so we can see how things are going with you. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Hatvanpuszta!]] I was surprised that they came to work today, because I thought that July 4th was for those who received their salary in dollars, on the day off, but at least they're here; I'm glad they're here, they're here and they're arguing. [[Zsolt Gréczy to the president: A NATO ally is being insulted by the KDNP!]] But I'm asking you to answer that with facts, not with all kinds of threats. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Oh, my God! Darkness!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-07-04-79	Dear Parliament, I would also like to ask Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, as well as fellow opposition Members, to return to the specific law. I give the floor to Secretary of State Csaba Latorcai, who has asked for the floor.
u2023-07-04-80	Thank you very much. Just one comment. First, they yelled at us about which hospital we reopened, like the National Psychiatric Institute at Gyula Nyírő Hospital. Not long ago, we re-established it as a National Institute of Mental, Neurological and Neurosurgery. This might hurt you. But I would like to thank you for the last opposition speeches, because the speeches by Mr Keresztes and Mr Z. Carpát have been much more calm, balanced and somewhat constructive, and thank you for at least recognising that it is the responsibility, responsibility and opportunity of the current government structure, in accordance with the current economic and social conditions, to be able to develop it in the most effective way. Thank you for not denying us that. But who is risking EU funds? Because this has appeared over and over again in the last speeches. Isn't it the left-wing opposition who is risking Hungary's EU funds? It is you who have not voted in favour of the legislative proposals necessary to bring these funds to Hungary! Well, if they were supportive, if they hadn't risked it, they would have voted for it. And it is you, the left-wing MEPs, who are doing everything in the European Parliament to put Hungary out of business. And indeed, I apologise for the fact that the MEP of the LMP does not do this, because the threshold for access to the European Parliament has not been reached. [[Zsolt Gréczy: neither is KDNP!]]
u2023-07-04-81	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Csaba Latorcai. [[Kálmán Olga: Oh, my God! Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató for two minutes, DK.
u2023-07-04-82	Thank you very much. I do not want to disturb Congressman Nacsa in this amok run, but I would like to address a warning to him to make sure that those who look back always fall off their noses sooner or later. But beyond that, I would like to respond to Secretary of State Latorcai. I understand, of course, that you are in a difficult situation, because the Deputy Minister, who has failed last year, and whose foundation is now being removed with the new Ministry of Europe; I understand that you must now collect merit for government propaganda, must prove the importance of your existence. [[János Lázár: Do you say that from experience?]] However, it must be said that I am obliged to correct some factual errors. The first of these is that you're wrong. So EU funds belong to Hungary, but Hungary does not mean Fidesz and KDNP, not Fidesz billionaires. Hungary means Hungarian entrepreneurs, the cities, the villages, the people from whom you stole these funds in a systematic work for 13 years. The fact is that this has fed up with the EU, and that is what we do not give support to. You say that the bill has been tabled, and the opposition has not supported it. Because we also said that these legislative proposals do not eliminate corruption and restore the rule of law, so they are not suitable for bringing EU funds. If you haven't figured that out in one year as Deputy Minister in a ministry dealing with this, that's a big problem. Of course, I think you know that, but it's in your best interest to say otherwise. Finally, I must also tell you that you overestimate the impact of opposition MEPs, because they are seven, and 400-500-600 Members of the European Parliament are voting on the proposals that are calling for the restoration of the rule of law and the elimination of corruption in Hungary. The thing is, Mr. Secretary, you either don't know what you're talking about or you're not telling the truth. Thank you very much.
u2023-07-04-83	Thank you, Congressman Gergely Arató. The next speaker is Gy. Ms Erzsébet Németh, DK.
u2023-07-04-84	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Well, Congressman Nacsa, we can continue this work here for a long time. Obviously you won't know, not me, but I don't think you can convince the media viewers. If you consider these hospitals so important, I'll ask you how many have been reopened in 13 years. Obviously, they didn't open again because they knew exactly that there was a reason why the government decided. You forgot to mention, Mr Nacsa, that in 2002 there was a unique 50 percent increase in teacher wages in education. I think those teachers would have been very happy today if the Parliament had decided, instead of the Vengeance Act, that 46 percent of what the opposition has been demanding for a very long time, would have been raised in equal terms. I think I would like to say to Mr Latorcai, or to Mr Latorcai, or to Mr. Secretary of State, that he has a discreet charm, that you are talking about the fact that, in terms of government positions, Prime Ministers or politicians so to speak before 2010, and, well, we know exactly what your role is here in this House. [[Dr. Csaba Latorcai:]] and what kind of relations there are between certain parliamentary officials and you. And that's, I'm sorry, going into a case that you really don't have a basic idea about in Gyula Nyírő Hospitals. [[Sic!]] As far as I'm concerned, that means you're really not prepared to represent the case here. [[Róbert Répássy: Ferenc Gyurcsány and Klára Dobrev are not married...]] [[14.30]] Gyula Nyírő Hospital has been a municipal hospital in the capital until you nationalized these hospitals with a pen stroke. You have not reopened any psychiatric hospital, quite simply the Nyíró Gyula Hospital has transformed into a hospital providing this type of care. I think, Mr State Secretary, that the hospitals in Budapest were in a much better place than the Municipality of Budapest, for example, they were able to perform much better, they provided people with better services. Go away and ask the people today that the commitments you made here, which I asked the Secretary of State of Takács a few weeks ago, are true, and they still keep their commitment that if anyone has a suspicion of cancer, one of the patients will have a definitive diagnosis in two weeks. No, Secretary of State, you don't have a definitive diagnosis in two weeks, and now you're nationalizing those CT and MR scan options and services. What is the point of this, because they have been financed by NEAK: obviously, after a few years, they will be transferred to their own kissers, whether in concession or in any privatisation. All this has happened is that in every sector, every aspect of life, after this bill, the House will negotiate the Einstand of castles, you want to take everything away from the Hungarians, and you do not care that many people pay for it with their lives and fair opportunities. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2023-07-04-85	Thank you. Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, DK!
u2023-07-04-86	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I am speaking to this debate because it is really necessary for the Parliament's minutes to record some facts. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Like this, Gy. After Elizabeth Németh.]] Here comes a constant collapse in this country, in Hungarian education and in Hungarian health care, and in every way. Let's just record a few things. In 2002 as Gy. My colleague Erzsébet Németh indicated that they started with a 50% wage increase in education and health care. Among other things, between 2002 and 2010, hundreds of kindergartens and schools were renovated with the active involvement of the Gyurcsány government. More people went to college. I look at my fellow Member, István Hiller, who was a minister at the time, and he can confirm that there were more students than there are now. It also made sense that there was a free textbook choice. During that period, we built six new university centers, including the Corvinus that you have played for your own friends. But I could say SOTE, or I could say the new block of the University of Szeged or, as a medical investment, the wing of the Institute of Oncology, which, by the way, Ferenc Gyurcsány and Miklós Kásler, your future minister, initiated together on Blueball Street. So, I think it's worth a strong shade of the image you're talking about. If we are talking about Hungarian health care, there have been a lot of hospital renovations, or even the construction of the new wing of the Bajcsy Hospital was also carried out under the Gyurcsány government. And I don't think when you go to the country [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: We're going home to the country.]] They're not using the motorways built by the Gyurcsány government, they're still using the old side roads, so let's say they crashed down to Debrecen in three and a half hours through villages. The other, as far as the structure of the government is concerned, it is difficult to commend a government structure with six economic wallets, but for example there are none education, none health care, and a new ministry is created that virtually nullifies the ministry that Tibor Navracsics has represented so far. I understand that the activity of Tibor Navracsics is a failure story, because in the last year nothing has been said but that every week, every two weeks, he announced that the EU money will come next week, the obstacles have been removed, but these EU money will not come because the EU representatives have decided not to give the money that their taxpayers are producing to thieves. Yeah, that's the problem. And if you are constantly pointing out that we are supposed to hinder the return of European money, then I would like to remind everyone that there was only one Prime Minister in this country, then he was an ex-Prime Minister, who got on a plane to go to Strasbourg and announce at the European People's Party's event that he would like to be asked to look back: we are on 25 December 2006, he was the only one who said to withdraw EU funding from Hungary. [[Nacsa Lawrence, the 25th?]] Anyone who can look back may also be my fellow Member Nacsa's friend, who will find him. He was such a man in Hungary who wanted to take EU funds from his country, and his name was Viktor Orbán. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-07-04-87	Thank you very much, Congressman. Before I give the floor to Mr Lóránt Keresztes, I would like to remind him and my fellow Members that our agenda is II on the list of the ministries of Hungary in 2022. a joint debate on the proposal to amend law in an exceptional procedure. If someone is very different from the subject, then I have no choice but to withdraw. You have the floor, dear congressman.
u2023-07-04-88	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. And thank you for the warnings, although I have tried in my speech to fully relate to the challenges that affect the European Union and thus affect us. At the same time, the debate is a bit extensive, although I feel, in itself, that in many respects, it has been extended, or branched out, in connection with such issues. I mean, Mr Secretary of State, we are somewhat affected or named, and I must respond briefly to that, Mr President, and I will try to do so briefly. Mr Secretary of State said that the left, I did not take this personally, I am a representative of the Green Party of LMP-Hungary, but that the opposition would not have voted in favour of the proposals for an agreement aimed at achieving EU funds. I have to shade this picture, Mr. Secretary of State. We have always watched these proposals very closely, and in most cases we have supported them, precisely because Hungary needs these EU development resources. In fact, we have sometimes put forward amendments in order to really, as far as we can see, provide solutions to the problems identified. And these amendments have been voted against by you. In some cases, we were unable to support these proposals when they were embedded in domestic salad laws that caused tangible damage, social or economic damage. But overall, our policy has always been to support these proposals for agreements. I'll give you an example, Mr. Secretary. They have objected to the fact that you also acknowledge the European Commission's opposition to the fact that you have placed an amazing amount of national assets in so-called trust funds, typically under the control of curators linked to a government. And on this problem, you have brought in a proposal for a solution on several occasions, and this has been, we can say, a small cosmetic element, and there have been decisions, for example, that curators with direct government functions have resigned, but overall, the basic problem has not been solved. Dear Secretary of State, You've made a decision, and my city's university has been disorganized. It was a state university, the University of Pécs; we are talking about one of the most important universities in Hungary's first university. You gave this to a foundation with real estate, everything, including patents, intellectual capital, knowledge, research potential, and, by the way, with 7,000 employees and a budget that is one and a half times the city's budget. This university is clearly not in a better position. Half of the employees at the university signed a petition to receive the promised wage increase. And the board points out to the government that there is no money to carry out the wage arrangement you promised. I do not want to go into this by accepting Mr President's warnings about how it will affect Pécs, Baranya and the entire South-Transdanubian region, if the University of Pécs is not able to function properly, it cannot complete what goes far beyond its role as one of Hungary's most important universities. However, this shows that a measure which, on any basis, is not eligible and which causes specific damage on any level of principle, is one of the measures that jeopardises Hungary's EU funds, which are indeed due to Hungarian people. I am referring, Mr Secretary of State, to the fact that we have always been constructive and will continue to be constructive, and we will always submit proposals that we consider to serve Hungarian national interests. But I do not think that the government is doing the right thing if it tries to turn the criticisms over immediately and does not draw any conclusions from the situation that has emerged and from the situation that has put Hungary's European Union resources at risk. Thank you, Mr. President. [[14.40]]
u2023-07-04-89	Thank you very much, Congressman László Keresztes. I'll ask if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Csaba Latorcai, two minutes.
u2023-07-04-90	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, The representatives of DK didn't even notice how they caught themselves. They emphasized and acknowledged that they were the ones who did not contribute to the arrival of these sources, and here they talked about all kinds of theft and theft. Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and Gentlemen, I refuse to call Hungary's small and medium-sized businesses thieves [[Kálmán Olga: No! You guys!]] I refuse to call the pedagogical society a thief; they would receive these resources. [[Kálmán Olga: The problem is no!]] They're taking it away from them, not anyone else! And I thank Mr Crusades for his constructive attitude; I hope that this will increase. So far, the LMP has succeeded in supporting two of the ten necessary legislative amendments which had to be adopted in order to reach agreement with the European Commission; they have abstained at three; they have not taken part in the vote at five. I hope that later, if there is, they will support the government's proposals more forcefully.
u2023-07-04-91	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The consolidated debate is closed. Then I give the floor to Secretary of State, Miklós Panyi, who has 21 minutes and 4 seconds to respond to what has been said.
u2023-07-04-92	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Indeed, the debate that has taken place goes beyond the scope of the substantive proposal, but given that there are a lot of issues that have been addressed that go beyond these areas, despite Mr President's warning, I also need to respond to some of the questions. Congressman Zsolt Gréczy said that it is important for the record to state certain facts and to nuance what has been said here. As a member of the shadow government, you obviously believe that. [[Kálmán Olga: It's not, but it's okay...]] At the same time, it may be important to light this up. They are very proud of the 2002-2010 performance, which is what has been said. For the sake of the facts: under your governance, Hungary's public debt has gone from 53 to 84 percent. [[Kálmán Olga: How much now? Zsolt Gréczy: 50,000 billion...]] The growth of the Hungarian economy stopped in 2006. I do not know, Mr President, that you have noticed that there is a war in Europe now, that there are economic difficulties, and that the public debt will also fall next year, and that it is on a declining path. There was no war under your government. [[Kálmán Olga: Then there was a global economic crisis... the president bells.]] there was no energy crisis; you failed Hungary when [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] In 2006 a record budget deficit was accumulated, nearly 10 percent of the budget deficit reached... There was no war, no recession. Slovakia, Romania, neighbouring countries have produced 6-8 percent economic growth [[Kálmán Olga: How much now?]] For the record. It's said, you can look at the data, you're arguing with data; these are facts, Congressman, whether you like it or not. But you obviously understand the truth differently, and we know that from your boss, Ferenc Gyurcsány: in 2006 he confessed, even if you call it the truth, even if you call it the truth. IMF, ventilator. Hungary also needed an IMF loan, unemployment went to 12 percent. It wasn't a year when unemployment wouldn't have increased during your administration. I'm sure you're proud of that, too. [[Kálmán Olga: We could talk about respirators right now...]] The hundreds of thousands of families who were trapped in a currency loan trap, let's not talk about it; it was several years before the Hungarian government was able to eliminate it. [[Zsolt Gréczy: You introduced the currency loan...]] During your administration, the family support system has been destroyed, which has led to a fall in childishness. That's why hundreds of thousands less kids go to school than they can. [[Kálmán Olga: Aha!]] You can look at it. It's the birthright. .......................................................................................................................................... [[Zsolt Gréczy: In our time, a record number of children were born. Look at the stats. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2023-07-04-93	Just a moment, please, Mr. Secretary. With all due respect, my fellow Members are trying to stay calm. Don't make me warn you, because there are consequences. Thank you. Go on, Mr. Secretary.
u2023-07-04-94	Thank you very much. I'll try my best then....
u2023-07-04-95	Thank you for that, Mr. Secretary.
u2023-07-04-96	Thank you. So on the issue of the Presidency: there was a turnaround here in 2010-11; a new government in Hungary, and the Hungarian Presidency took place in 2011. We have just talked about the culture of cooperation, the national consensus, about how the Hungarian opposition then supported this Presidency. In 2010, when the government took over this wrecked budget and economy, we introduced extraordinary economic measures: bank tax, special tax. What happened then? The then opposition representatives wrote a letter to the then MEPs, in which they wrote the criticisms of foreign companies that it discriminated against them. The presidency hasn't even started yet. Then all the internal policy issues were taken to the European scene; Hungarian internal politics was taken out, and it became a presidency issue. They remember the 2011 debates: during the Presidency, the debates in the European Parliament were not about the affairs of the European Union, but about Hungary's internal policy. This was in 2011, and so you have worked very, very hard. So if we can expect such an attitude in the second half of 2024, then thank you very much for this attitude, but I strongly suggest that you change that. What is perhaps still related to the 2011 Presidency is that they remember when the media law, the Church Act, the fundamental laws and the Fundamental Law were debated: you also took these out and generated a presidency issue and a debate on the board. Sectoral issues: the integration of specific fields into the ministerial structure. You have objected to the inadequate representation of these sectors by not having a separate Ministry of Education and Health. Secretary of State Bence Rétvári sits here every week, is at your disposal and can be asked; the responsibilities are clear. State Secretary Zoltán Maruzsa and State Secretary Péter Takács have, in recent years, been on the roadshow to various stakeholder organisations on health and education issues and transformations. Thus, the claim that, since there is no independent ministry in these two areas, and therefore the areas are not adequately represented, represented, or responsible, is simply not true. But how well it works if there's an independent Ministry of Education or Health, it's justified by your operation. It has also been said by the Secretary of State of Latorca, Mr Nacsa, but some data are worth repeating: during your administration, when there was an independent Ministry of Education, education was abolished in 381 places. At that time, 16,000 active beds were removed in health care; 6 000 medical workers were dismissed; the visit fee was introduced, the hospital daily allowance was... [[The president's ringing the bell. Zsolt Gréczy: It was a warning, I'm just saying!]]
u2023-07-04-97	Let's get down to business, Mr. Secretary.
u2023-07-04-98	All right, thank you. A lot has been said about this, which is why I wanted to respond. I would also like to say two more facts: the current budget for education compared to 2010 is 2000 billion and the current budget for health is also 2000 billion compared to 2010. [[Zsolt Gréczy: What is the real value?]] Given that the question of demography, the issue of migrant workers, the question of environmental protection, the question of family support, the support of returnees has yet to be discussed by the Member ladies and gentlemen, but these are not the subject of a presidential warning, and I do not wish to respond to them for a long time. [[Kálmán Olga: What a pity!]] I therefore ask you, given that the constitutional right of the current government to set up a constitutional organisation is the definition of independent ministerial structures, to support the proposed bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-07-04-99	Thank you very much. I would also like to thank you and my fellow opposition Members for your understanding. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Friday's meeting. [[14.50]] We now have a general debate on the bill on the sustainable development of certain elements of cultural heritage until closure. The government referral is T/4252. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr János Lázár, Minister for Construction and Transport, rapporteur on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Minister.
u2023-07-04-100	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the government today, I request T/4252. I am afraid that in my expo, I will not be able to replace the kind of scorching intellectual debate that has taken place in the House in the last hour. So I am not sure I will be able to maintain this level of interest among my fellow Members. I appeal to the Parliament on behalf of the Government to ask for support from my fellow Members for the protection of heritage, the public interest and sustainability. The bill is about the sustainable development of certain elements of cultural heritage, which means that the government requests the consent of the legislature, the Parliament, so that, like international models in the area of heritage conservation, private capital, can appear in Hungary and play a role in a controlled, controlled and regulated framework. In this spirit, I would like to begin with an account of what I have to say, and I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that today there are 804 castles, mansions and mansions in the ownership and management of the Hungarian state. Before 1945, according to historical monument protection surveys, there were 1,500 similar types of facilities in Hungary, so there were 1500 castles and mansions in Hungary, and today there are 804 such properties. The 804 of these properties are 10 castles, 444 castles, 343 mansion and 7 unidentified ruins managed by the Hungarian state. CHAPTER XX The history of the century framed the fate of these buildings, about which I would like to point out to Parliament here that the first nationalisation wave began in 1945, and the second one ended in 1952, and in 1960 the series of historic and building protection procedures and the process of declaring them protected began. However, during the period of cultural barbarism, during communism, about 50 percent of the buildings were destroyed, demolished or destroyed, so what was available to us by 1990, or remained. The first castle-rebuilding legislation and economic resources came before the parliament in 1981 and came to the public in Hungary. This is a fraction of what Hungary had even after the Trianon peace dictatorship, not to mention the conditions prior to World War I. So we are a country and a community that has suffered an amazing loss in terms of heritage conservation and built heritage in the 20th century. In the century. So the fact that we want to protect every building in Hungary today, which is old and which symbolizes the past in terms of its architectural or historical nature, is a completely natural attachment and ambition. I would also like to inform the Parliament - perhaps from the point of view of my fellow Members interested, it is not indifferent to the fact that, of the 804 castles, mansion and mansion buildings, I was able to renovate 27 buildings from 2014 to this day. The 27 buildings cost 55 billion forints. The 27 buildings were renovated on average 50 percent, so 27 of the 804 buildings have been renovated in the last ten years, 14 of them have been handed over, 13 of them are being renovated. We spent 55 billion on these 27 buildings with 50 percent of the buildings being built, which is what the European Union and its domestic resources covered. The property remaining in 804 has not been significantly touched in the last ten years, despite Hungary's unprecedented economic growth and strengthening. [[Kálmán Olga: Oh, oh!]] I ask you to understand, if there are such important comments in my speech. The numbers are very talkative. There are eight castles, renovated castle ensembles, which have already been opened. Five are in the process of being opened, and the remaining ten or so are ready. The eight castles were visited by 790,000 people in 2021-22-23, so the eight buildings had 790 000 visitors, the eight buildings had 1 billion HUF 100 million in revenue, and the cost of the eight buildings was HUF 3 billion 600 million. These numbers are eight buildings, and we didn't talk about the remaining 800 buildings. If I may, I would like to take a short detour here, as well as for the fact that there are several interpretations of history. I don't dispute either of them, I don't dispute any of their merits, in our history, in our philosophy approach, personality plays a major role in shaping history. While Marxist history and history classes describe history and the development or continuation of the world, we believe that people, personalities and their creations have contributed significantly to the growth of the country and the community in the past thousand years' history. Why do I say that? Because buildings that are still present in Parliament in the context of this draft law, and those that are not on the agenda, are symbolic. They are symbolic, because if you want to understand the XVIII. The century, the enlightenment, the 19th century. 1 9th century, the 19th century. or XX. The turn of the century is one of the instruments of interpretation when someone looks at the building that was born in this era. To understand Hungary at the turn of the century, the viewing, understanding and processing of Parliament's building will bring us much closer, as it will give back something from the age spirit. But not only does the place have a spirituality in an architectural sense, but the spirit of the place obviously influenced those who created it, and the creators themselves created houses, created homes, and created political creations. Many argue that a thousand-year-old Hungarian history could be described through the history of families, but the Árpáds did characterize the history of this country for 300-400 years. When you look back at what it meant at the Hunyadi era, the appearance of the Renaissance in architecture in Hungary, if you think back to the fact that the 16th edition of the 16th Anniversary of Art. In the century Báthorians rule this country when we think back to the fact that the 17th century In the century, Rákócziak characterizes this country, then there is no architectural creation that is independent of the dominant historical personalities of the era; see the merger between Sárospatak and Rákócziak. Annex XVIII to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended as follows: Hungary is often identified by the Esterházyok, whose researcher sits in the ranks of the MSZP, in the person of Professor Hiller. But when I think about it, and when I think about it, heritage conservation, the spirit of the place and the understanding of history have an important role to play now, when I think about three Esterházy brothers apologizing for the detour, Miklós Esterházy is the XVIII. As ambassador of Maria Theresa in the court of Katalin Nagy and Tsar Erzsébet, Ferenc Ferenc is the chancellor of Hungary, their brother Károly is the bishop of Eger. Hungarian Enlightenment of the century, organizing Hungary's new ecclesiastical life, administration, education system, cultural and public education infrastructure, the living space of these three, we call it the papal castle, the castle of Tata and the city of Eger, the Episcopal Palace there, the archbishop's headquarters there today, the lyceum there, describes what they thought about the world, because the materialized reality appeared in architecture in terms of the realization of their thoughts. So it's the 18th. 18th century Hungarian Enlightenment and the 18th century Hungarian Enlightenment Hungarian baroque of the century can be understood through the life story of a threesome and the architectural works they have created. If someone goes to Pope, someone goes to the castle in Tata, or someone goes to Eger and sees the Archbishop's seat or goes into the Lyceum, then you can understand the Hungarian Enlightenment, the XVIII. I put this in parentheses for the first century or so, so as not to excommunicate the impact and significance of the Hungarian freemasonry on the fate of the country. So heritage conservation is more than beautiful buildings that you visit as tourists, you're happy with the architectural value there or the garden heritage, and you're enjoying yourself, these buildings have a message value. I believe it will bring us closer to Churchill's understanding if someone goes to his home in England, finds that house and tries to understand what he represented in politics, always brings us closer. If someone finds the house where Bismarck died, it's likely they understand more about the relationship between politics and personality. [[15.00]] If someone goes past the buildings mentioned above to Eszterháza, then he understands that a Hungarian man before us a few hundred years ago, a Hungarian general in the middle of an ancient swamp, creates a copy of Versailles, showing the world that we Hungarians are also someone. I mean, if someone wants to understand Széchenyi, they have to go to Nagycenk in any way to guide the spirit of Genius Loci, the spirit of the place, what his life's work meant. I mean, without seeing Tiszadob, I don't think that Gyula Andrássy, older or younger, can be understood, whose role cannot be exaggerated in the XIXth century. In the second half of the century, especially because it is still unprocessed today, but the exhibition in Tiszadob may offer this opportunity. In Gyula Andrássy, together with the statue of the Horseman, we respect the first Prime Minister of the Government of 1867 here in Parliament, and forget that for ten years there was a joint Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy, the first minister of the Emperor, the organizer of the Berlin Congress, Bismarck's worthy partner, and one of the founders of the Balkan expansion of the Habsburg Empire and the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy, the founder of German-Austrian cooperation. But the same is Geszt: I do not believe that the age spirit is understandable or transparent without the home, knowledge and interpretation of two prime ministers, Kálmán Tisza and István Tisza. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] So for us fidesz people, heritage conservation, cultural heritage and architectural heritage always have a hearing, a second and third significant dimension and a significant content, which I consider to be extremely important for it to be appreciated in the future. Back to the essence of the proposal: the proposal seeks to answer the question of what to do with these buildings. I'd like to split my wallet into three large groups of buildings that belong to the Ministry and the Heritage Department. Obviously, there are buildings in the history of the country that are home to György Festetics, the founder of Helikont, or even Eszterháza, whose significance is unquestioned in domestic and international terms. These buildings must be maintained, operated and made available to all by the Hungarian state as part of the Hungarian education and training programme. However, there are certain buildings for which it is considered that the Hungarian State reserves the right and the possibility to operate. I would ask the Parliament to discuss, as far as possible, in a calm form, which has not so far been the case with regard to whether private capital is subject to Article XXI. In the 20th century, he had a role to play in directing the fate of these 804 properties. It is not reassuring to me that the Hungarian state has a huge property estate, which, in addition, are the country's most important monuments, are protected by heritage, and we do not do anything with them: they are deteriorating, they are destroyed, they are empty, the nationalization left them state-owned, after 1990 they all remained on the state's neck, they did not become new owners, and while these buildings are destroyed, their exploitation is waiting for themselves. When I think of the fact that only two dozen of the 804 properties are accessible to the public, visitable, viewable, inhabitable, I think we are behind. I would also like to make a detour to the events of 1990, which are not independent of our current decision. This is that in 1989-90 the then democratic opposition, the entire Hungarian political department, agreed that the historic possibility and condition of restoring the original ownership status before 1945 did not exist. That this was the right or wrong decision, and then the time after us will decide, I have at least partial concerns about the conservation of heritage, but in 1990 a public consensus was formed in this house with the participation of all parties, that the implementation of the original state of restoration before 1945 was contrary to the national interest. In essence, with a partial compensation ticket worth HUF 5 million, the Constitutional Court confirmed all the consequences of the post 1944 nationalizations. A side effect of this was that these buildings were obviously in government control, had no new owners, had no new owners, had no good farmer's care, and in fact some of them had reached the thirtieth of dogs. In the Czech Republic, it is true, waiting a little, but the original conditions have been restored, there has been restoration, and as a result of the restoration, a very significant part of the monument has been restored to private property, to the maintenance of the original owners, and if a person visits the Czech Republic as a Member of Parliament this summer and makes a castle tour, he will see and feel the difference. Of course, the Czechs and even the Slovaks are in an easier position than we are, because of course we are talking about nationalisation and we are talking about state cultural barbarism, but we should not ignore the small fact that there are few European countries where the population would have done as much damage in the castle ensembles as in Hungary. In 1945, you were not not only the occupying Soviet army, but the Hungarian population also looted these buildings for their own benefit, partly for business purposes, and this resulted in today's single historic castle, which would have its original ensemble, while in Slovakia and the Czech Republic, Austria's Soviet occupation zone or in East Germany or Poland, this kind of looting, this kind of self-destruction, this kind of cultural barbarism was not typical. Originally existing castle ensembles were maintained, because partly the occupying Soviet army was not so destructive, and partly the population did not feel that it should in any way compensate itself in political, moral, and material terms for the feudal repression by subpoenaing itself. So the fact that we are here is the result of a number of historical contexts. However, I would point out in any way that, after the 1990 decision, we are in a position that the property which was nationalised after 1945 has already been privatised in whole or in part, the real estate portfolio, superstructures, castles and the rest of it, combined with the previous large assets, remained in the hands of the state. So, while land privatisation has taken place in Hungary since 1990, the privatisation of companies and businesses has taken place, the property has been privatised for the last 32 years, which has been dependent on these real estate complexes, obviously these properties have remained for the Hungarian State. I am not sure that this was the right and wise decision in 1990, or that all aspects were considered, and it is unclear what effect this had on heritage conservation. I believe that what György Károlyi, the great-grandson of György Károlyi, who built Lánchidat with István Széchenyi, has been doing since 1997 in Fehérvárgörgó, together with the Hungarian state, is a good example of how to bring back such a thing, how to operate it, and how to make good use of it for the benefit of the public. So I would like the National Assembly to provide an opportunity and framework for the Hungarian government to develop, like in the 1990s, a case law in which individuals, privateities are not a state entity, i.e. the local government and the church would be given the opportunity to receive the long-term non-state reserve facilities from today's state-owned or state-managed castle ensemble. This is, of course, a huge responsibility and task, since a transfer of ownership or a 99-year trust right proposed by the law does not mean a reduction in the level of heritage protection, does not mean a reduction in the protection of the public collection. I would ask my fellow Members for consideration to consider 32 years. In 32 years, we have governed 16 years, we have been in opposition for 16 years, the country has been governed by the right side for 16 years, and the country has been governed by the left for 16 years, everyone has his experience and practice in heritage conservation. I think I can say without risk to my fellow Members that we have failed to set up an optimal model for the operation and operation of these old buildings, but these buildings deserve more. If there were no EU funds in 2014, we would not have been able to spend HUF 55 billion on the fate of these properties, even if a part of them could be considered as profitable investments in tourism. The question is that in 32 years Hungary has developed an economic force capable of operating these properties in the spirit of the care of a good host. I would like to mention here that corporate or private assets in Western Europe do have a public purpose and a public task; there are a lot of buildings in the UK and in 2017 Italy provided 106 castles for private treatment. [[15.10]] There is a manner and order, there is a tradition, and there is a habit of a private individual, a private company, a private interest taking over a public asset and operating, building and using it for the benefit of the public. The other issue is that contemporary art, the old art, the history of architecture and the old buildings are not fashionable in Hungary today, the tax system does not prefer it, and society does not thank it. I don't know a major contractor who would take over an old building in the public interest and run and operate it for the benefit of the public. Municipalities are much more: the local government of the town of Pope, the Roman Catholic Church or the Reformed Church or the Greek Catholic Church operates and operates a number of historic buildings for the benefit of the public. The question is that we can create, the moment has come to create the conditions, legal conditions, legal guarantees that private companies, large companies, companies with international reputations, say, OTP, MOL or Richter will take over from the Hungarian State a building of this size and size, which will be operated for public benefit on 300 days of the year, and will keep the garden open every day from 10 a.m. to 19 a.m. every day of the year, in the remaining time band, where appropriate, it will provide the social reputation or even representation of that company. I am talking about something that is a daily routine in Austria, Germany, France and England. I understand mistrust, I understand concerns. When this bill was put in front of Parliament, it went through many debates, as many opposed it in the government as well as in the Fidesz parliamentary faction, fearing a kind of hidden privatisation. But if someone looks at the text of this law and points out who is presenting this bill to Parliament, then they can see that the bill gives guarantees. It provides guarantees that the property acquired, the property acquired, cannot be disposed of, cannot be loaded, must be operated and operated by the public and must be renewed in the interest of the good host. I'll give you an example. We spent 5 billion in Békés County, not far from Békéscsaba, on the Wenckheim Castle in Snake. With this 5 billion, 40 percent of that complex is ready, 60 percent is not ready. We also spent 4 billion forints in a garland. 50 percent of the building is ready, another 50 percent is not ready, and I do not see the resources of the Hungarian state to spend another HUF 5-10 billion there in a short time. The question of creating conditions is that we can create the social expectation for our large companies to sacrifice and sacrifice in order to protect the built heritage in order to preserve heritage protection. I would also like to point out to the attention of my fellow Members that we have done this with due care, because the Hungarian National Property Act is a two-thirds law, the Constitution protects Hungarian national assets, so special rules apply to its disposal, burdening or operation. I think that what we have placed here on Parliament's table is the right balance, the right guarantee for future operation. In fact, I can tell you that if the law is adopted in this way by the Parliament, I will have to use lasso to find entrepreneurs who take over such properties for operation and operation. [[Kálmán Olga: Alas, alas!]] Because I really think that it is not material gain, but perhaps strengthening social appreciation, social responsibility that can motivate a company to sacrifice for the protection of heritage. In the spirit of social responsibility in Hungary, we mobilise tax forints for the benefit of the theatres in the last 32 years, we mobilise forints for sport, we mobilise tax forints for the benefit of fine arts and mecenature in a limited frame, but not for the protection of heritage. If you think about the fact that the purchase of an apartment in the city under historic protection in Budapest is a disadvantage for the buyer in the current legal environment, which is why the historic restriction without compensation leads to the emptying of the city centre and to the depreciation of the property stock there, clearly proves that there is plenty of work to be done in this area as well. I think that we need a change of regime and, above all, a change of perspective. In this I would like to ask for the resolution and consideration of my fellow Members of Parliament. I have tabled the bill in such a way that there should be time for this debate, so there is no urgent need in this regard, the summer will be suitable for my fellow Members to draft amendments, to consider the role and possibility of this legislation. In order to be able to better manage my work on cultural heritage within the government, it would be a great help to include private sources that can be involved in cultural heritage conservation. This does not have the legal requirement in Hungary today. This legislative proposal, this piece of legislation, is nothing less than the wording of this proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to consider the text tabled, the bill and consider all that I have just added to the oral proposal. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-07-04-101	Thank you very much, Minister. Welcome, fellow Members. We'll get back to work. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mrs Tünde Szabó. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-07-04-102	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Minister, Dear House, The T/4252. The important aim of this bill is to increase the efficiency of the public administration of the monuments concerned, while providing strong legal guarantees to the present and future citizens of Hungary regarding the predictable relations of the monuments concerned, as well as the long-term provision of their public property management and professional operation, whether they are public property or still within the scope of this law. The bill applies to individual castles, mansions and mansions. The proposal provides for the possibility of efficient public management of monuments and establishes a new system for the maintenance and operation of individual properties. The submitted submission does not modify the current function of the properties, but rather serves to preserve them. The draft lays down strict rules for the transferred property, thus protecting the property after it is removed from the state assets. According to the submission, the private party involved is entitled to the right of use and to a limited right to self-development, but at the same time the building and the public collection in it, as well as the park and the garden, are subject to an obligation of opening, operating and maintenance. Magyar Nemzeti Vagyonkezelő Zrt. enter into a property management contract with the owner at the same time as the contract for the transfer of ownership of the immovable property and movable property. The proper use and operation of the property transferred into property management or free of charge by MNV Zrt. MNV Zrt. controls and the agreement on transfer or asset management. Tie it up. The bill also contains in detail the revocation of property ownership and the regulation applicable in the event of the liquidation of property management rights. In the case of ownership, the property concerned would be subject to a 99-year disposal and debit ban, as has been said by the Minister, after which the proposal would give the Hungarian State the right to purchase pre-emptive property. It is also important to note that if the right to withdraw or the right to dispose of property is terminated on the basis of the waiver of the copyrightor's private party, the right-holder shall not be able to recover the expenditure on the property from the State. It should be pointed out that investment aid to promote the preservation of cultural heritage and operating aid may be granted under the detailed rules of the law. Dear Parliament, The bill before us does not reduce national heritage, but increases it. It preserves its values, but now it also allows, encourages and strictly regulates the participation of private capital in the achievement of an important public objective. On this basis, the Fidesz Group supports the submitted bill, which we propose to support the Honourable Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Nacha Lawrence applauds.]] [[15.20]]
u2023-07-04-103	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mrs Kálmán Olga, who is speaking here about the platform, the pulpit. We'll wait for Congresswoman to wake up. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2023-07-04-104	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable, gracious lords and great women! It is a great pleasure for us that the Hungarian people, or all of us, can bring you yet another fabulous enrichment. We know it's unfortunate to criticize the lords, to contradict their will. [[Sic!]] But now we want to tell you our concerns. For 13 years, we've been hoping that at some point they'll run out of hungry mouths, and then they'll just be satisfied with what they've already got or have been stolen by the oligarchs around the government, family members, but they seem to have a bottomless appetite. Not enough yachts, not enough camping, port, hotels, that is, half of Balaton, not enough to get electricity and gas suppliers, not enough to build roads, bridges, railways alone, not enough to have an exclusive state investor title, casinos, football teams, media empires, advertising markets, banks, it's not all enough for buddies. We still need castles, mansions, castles. Obviously, in the historical past, they would enjoy themselves in ancient furniture and paintings. Sitting back in an antique chair, with a fire in the fireplace, I would feel that their unconditional Orbán loyalty was not in vain. The acquisition of the immeasurable wealth and the supposed retort of some of it were not in vain. You say that the bill on the sustainable development of certain elements of cultural heritage was necessary because:. The state recognises and records in particular the social value-added role of private actors in the protection of cultural heritage elements. The State supports and protects public interest efforts to protect the cultural heritage elements of private entities, provides the necessary legal environment and contributes to creating the necessary financing conditions for the medium-term predictability of operations and further development. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, It is not difficult to figure out how this was in reality, how this bill was born. There's some NER issues, like the prime minister's son-in-law and his favorite gasman who already has a castle, and the rest of his buddies don't. Well, that's not fair. It is obvious that besides István Tiborcz and Lőrinc Mészáros, there are also suitable kissing mates who have a toothache for the castle and mansion, which has been minted from state and EU billions, because they have been served for it. This story describes the philosophy of the entire NER. They are centralised in terms of governance, but privateised in terms of public assets. In English, they give the state fortune to the pals. Once again, I quote:. The buildings, mansions, mansions, mansions and other public properties owned by the State, owned by the Minister for the Protection of Cultural Heritage, which are managed by the Minister for Cultural Heritage, and which are directly responsible for ensuring the proper use of them, in particular parks, gardens and movable property, may be transferred free of charge to property or property management as defined in this Act. For the record, outside the castles, mansions and mansions, there is a forest and a field for the estate, so the whole estate. Not only the property, but also the furniture or paintings in it can be obtained free of charge by natural or legal persons who successfully apply for the ownership of state castles. Oh, they're competing? ! No, they're not. With little things like that, you don't woo. It is enough to write a letter to János Lazarus, who will decide on the examination of applications in one person. In the past few minutes, almost half an hour, I have never heard a man speak so beautifully about theft of public wealth as I have heard John Lazarus. Never! He talked about how to play it and how to play the public fortunes for the pals. Imagine, there's no tender, we'll write a letter, signed X.Y., good friend, oligarch, mate, this and this castle with the estate, forest, equipment, and everything for 99 years. Let's play with the idea that, for example, Lőrinc Mészáros requires you, and you will obviously receive another castle for 99 years. In the park he admires butterflies, sometimes he tells his wife not to touch them. I'll be taken off one of the shelves in the library tonight by a XIX. The original volume of poetry of the century, emotional, and fall asleep from the melody of rhyme. But you have not only decided to ask for these invaluable values with a simple request from one of your mates, but you have even tricked with social consultation. The annex to the draft submitted for conciliation has designated 12 castles to be delivered in private hands. However, the Annex has been removed from the proposal submitted, so there is no specific list from which it follows that the law can be applied to any of the state castles, either one or all of them. So what you've renovated from our tax dollars and EU citizens' taxes, you can get your buddies free of charge. John Lazarus also said that he would use lasso to catch entrepreneurs. I think he's trying to nail down the door somehow, because there's gonna be so many interested people who'll come along with his little request to find out which castle he's looking for. Well, gentlemen and ladies, I apologize in advance for the indecent expression, but this is nothing more than the upper level of unfaithful treatment, which is now being put into law so as not to be an item of Btk. But that's still what it is; morally, morally, it is. This is the upper level of unfaithful treatment! In spite of the fact that the debate is now marked as common value, common treasure, private equity, everything is beautiful, built, and remains a public treasure, it will not remain. You give it away, you give it to someone who likes it. Now they're hiding where they were, where the museum function remains. Really? And it's just a coincidence that a few weeks ago museums in countless castles were abolished, employees fired? I know, the sanctions are in Brussels, cost savings, and the economy is soaring, and we have also heard from the Minister. And we just jumped off the wall. Unfortunately, the story is very transparent. The museums have been abolished so that the new owner or tenant does not have to deal with this, so that many tourists, visitors, and Hungarians who want to culturalize will not disturb the calmness of their lords and families. And how well they figured out that these properties aren't going to be taken away, they're not going to go into private hands forever, because they're going to have a pre-emptive right to the state, so the state can buy it back for billions that you've just given me for free. Well, that's good. Well, unlike you, the Democratic Coalition attaches great importance to the protection and value-based management of cultural heritage, monuments. The survival, preservation and maintenance of historic, cultural heritage of Hungarian relevance, buildings and structures relevant to Hungarian art history, the past and tradition is an important element of the Democratic Coalition's programme. With this reference, it is possible to agree with the objectives of the value-based management of the noble protection of monuments set out in the explanatory memorandum to the bill. But in order to get to know the underlying intention, it is enough to read only a few newspaper articles from the last few years, and we already know that the oligarchs of NER want Hungary's protected monuments. And not only does the Orbán system help its oligarchs to thrive, they also adapt tax legislation to them. Since 2017, the cost of renovation of monument buildings has been deducted from the corporate tax base. In addition, they will receive substantial State aid for renovations and will continue to receive them according to their bill. In addition, on the basis of the proposal, the trustee is exempted from the obligation to pay the asset management fee and also from the obligation to recover. Technically, the state finances everything, but the profits are concentrated only in a narrow NER interest. [[15.30]] For 13 years, week after week, I think that you can no longer subdue yourself and I am always wrong, because you always manage to sink deeper and deeper. Right now, they're deceiving us by only protecting our cultural values, while they're trying to reward and reward their buddies who are hungry for power and urination. According to your values, these fellows deserve public wealth, since they served their lord and his power in a nice and devoted way; they deserve to feel like lords in everyday life in the castles and castles renovated with public money. Once again, I speak indecently to the gentlemen, but believe me, even though they dream of becoming aristocrats, they will remain only the oligarchs who serve the system, whose actions and activities we will one day read with disgust from the history books. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of DK, Momentum and Dialogue.]]
u2023-07-04-105	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-07-04-106	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, Kálmán Olga's speech was not disturbed by the facts, it is clear, but I went back to my phone quickly because previously Gergely Arató asked me to be my friend; I took his advice to see what Kálmán Olga said when, during the Gyurcsány government in 2009, the Hungarian National Asset Manager asked the Minister of Culture to privatise the Almásy Castle in Gyula and nine other castles from exclusive state property, not 99 years, for ever, even one forint. Imagine, I couldn't find such a noble speech, such indignation, I couldn't find a lady's speech, I couldn't find... [[Kálmán Olga: 2009?]] In 2009... [[Kálmán Olga: I was not a congressman, do you mind?! The president's ringing the bell.]] He didn't have a personal opinion, he didn't have an opinion on political events. [[Kálmán Olga intervenes.]] However I sought the indignation of Zsolt Gréczy, however I sought the indignation of the young momentists [[Defiance in the ranks of Momentum. David Bedő: I was 16 years old!]] I couldn't find it; I couldn't find anyone's indignation when in 2009 the Hungarian National Asset Management wrote to the Ministry of Culture for the privatisation of the Almásy Castle in Gyula and nine other state-owned castles. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, we are not at the trial of a simple law. As the Minister said, there were debates at our group meeting, there were skeptical comments, because I think there is a fundamental philosophical question to be answered by the Minister in his expozee - what should we do with the monuments, the castles, the castles, the castles to which very important events and very important personalities of Hungarian history are linked; what should we do with a building built in the 1800s, 1700s and 1600s, which is sometimes ruined, sometimes renovated, sometimes moderate? We finally have these buildings, our built heritage, what do we do with it, and what is the purpose to start with? I think this is the most important question, and it is worth starting today's debate, not where Olga Kálmán started, but where it is worth looking at this question, from where I think it is worth looking at this question, that these buildings are something for us as a Hungarian national community, that we have important buildings like the Hungarian nation, that we have locations, historical locations that are linked to events and personalities that have contributed to the fact that we are now, a thousand years later, the largest nation in the Carpathian Basin. I think we have such locations, and unfortunately, we do not have locations; they destroyed them, destroyed them, made them equal to the ground, sprinkled them with salt, in some way transformation, barbaric destruction, unconscious destruction, natural disaster, we cannot show them to our grandchildren, our children, we cannot look at these places ourselves, where, by the way, important events in Hungarian history took place. I think that the Communists destroyed the largest, not our fellow Hungarians, who tried to spread these castles for business or for their own sake; the destruction of the Communists in this country was much greater. We can see reconstructions where beautiful castles were used for stables, used for warehouses, we know those..., just in recent years, we have spent billions of European Union and state to try to integrate unconventional children's homes on the edge of the village or the city near the community, and these children, who are in child protection institutions, do not live in an old, old, unrefurbished castle building on the outskirts of the city, but in habitats near the community. I think that it is very important that the debate is that the monuments that we still have are beyond the borders of Hungary, so what we should do with those that we have here, within our borders, that we have many historical sites that unfortunately do not have as a result of the destruction, or that, as a result of the Trianon decision, we are beyond the borders of Hungary, so what we should do with those that are here, within our borders, that we still have, and that are worthy of protecting them, and showing our children, our grandchildren, because our history, a piece of our identity, is connected to it; leaders, the scenes of decisions, the living spaces of leaders, the places of historical events that determined that we are here now, the Hungarian nation lives, the Hungarian nation is strengthening in 2023, and that the last ten years have been the most successful decade of the last hundred years. [[Kálmán Olga: Whoo! Whoo! Defiance in the ranks of DK and Momentum.]] That's why it's worth it! Think. I think it's worth protecting. [[Ferenc Gelencsér: Modestness! The president's ringing the bell.]] The question is, how do we do that? The question is that every year, the Minister will squeeze a few billion forints out of the Ministry of Finance, and we can renovate a room more than one, from eight hundred or so castles we will always select one, two or three, and we will start to modernise, renovate, or just save. The Minister did not say the number, but I think it is also an unmerciful number, that the annual preservation of this 800 buildings would not be a renewal, not a exploitation, and the annual preservation of the Hungarian budget would consume a huge amount of hundreds of billions. And here comes the question, when we have to think; and it's a difference of direction that, if you like that word, we're about to get out of the way, and we have to decide where to go from here. Is it good for the Hungarian nation that if every year, depending on the capacity of the budget, the Hungarian State can finance a building, a room for each building, the installation of a new function? Of course, if you say so, you are right that the most ideal situation would be that if the state could make use of all of them, the state could renew all of them, the state could show all of them to the general public, together with both domestic and foreign tourists, but it is not possible in countries much richer than us. Take France as an example, Italy as an example, Spain as an example. It does not work in countries with much luckier historical development and much richer countries; the annual government budget cannot manage the maintenance, renovation and exploitation of all such monuments. At the same time, it is also against the fact that it is worth it that if we keep this, it is worth it that if we show it, it is worth it that if we bring out something good from a tourist point of view, I think not only from a historical point of view, but also from an identity-forming and otherwise valuable place in our Hungarian history. And here comes the question of how to find a win-win situation, I think the law is looking for an answer, and the Minister was looking for an answer from this difficult situation in his exposé. The narrowness of the state budget, the merciless amount of real estate, the historic and historic sites to be presented, the common point of this threefold set, and where to create a win-win situation where the preservation of these buildings can take place, where these buildings can be presented, where these buildings are preserved, we can preserve them for posterity; where is the common section of this threefold set, the common point on which we can start and what we can view together as a national minimum. As I understand it, the position of the Gyurcsány Party has now changed, and it is now important to preserve these castles. If I understand Kálmán Olga's speech as a keynote speaker, then the congresswoman says that it is important for them to have these real estates, too. [[Kálmán Olga: It's important to us!]] Keep it safe, we can preserve these properties. [[Kálmán Olga: Nincs No, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, ……]] We can protect these properties, and we can present these properties. [[15.40]] It is particularly interesting when the congresswoman talks about privatisation by making her party president a billionaire from privatisation, but it is completely independent of today's debate. We remember that the airport was sold to Ferenc Gyurcsány for a small villa in Buda for HUF 200 million. If you are talking about responsible farming with national assets, if you are talking about responsible farming, it is worth mentioning that Ferenc Gyurcsány privatized 192 public companies. Most of these were profitable state-owned companies, I could mention MÁV Cargo, or even waterworks, or even a number of state-owned companies that functioned as profitable, so for example, it brought revenue for castle maintenance into the state budget, these companies were sold to your friends at a price, if you like, to its lords and mistresses, foreign comrades and domestic friends. In your time, most of the state's wealth has fallen. In the last 13 years, state wealth has increased. I think that's a huge difference. If we can start from here, we can talk about these facts, and that's where we can start the debate, then I think we're getting closer to a solution. [[Olga Kálmán: Lőrinc Ripper!]] Well, we remember that Budapest Airport, Postabank, MOL shares, Antenna Hungária, MÁV Cargo, all profitable [[Olga Kálmán: Tiborcz, Garanchi!]] they were all profitable companies. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] And where did they go? You're in foreign ownership of the Gyurcsány interest circle. Speaking of important buildings here, let's also say a word about the tiny villa as one of the Buda citadels. [[Kálmán Olga: From Fidesz Hall! David Bedő laughs.]] I see you're familiar with Congressman Bedő. [[Dávid Bedő: Minister, raise your standards! I don't understand why you're talking about this.]] The Gyurcsány couple bought it for 9 million forints in mid-1990, which had to be paid 10 percent. So if anyone is talking about unfaithful treatment, Madam honourable Member, in DK colors, I would like to point out that you had to pay 9 million forints and 900,000 forints. A few years ago, Ferenc Gyurcsány claimed to sell this debate. I think we'll find a buyer for 9 million forints, and then the former prime minister won't lose anything to keep the billionaire's assets from getting hurt. However, at the time of privatisation, it must be mentioned, honourable Member, what you have done in the field of privatisation, and how the state's wealth has been carried out, and it has become with a noble simplicity of private wealth. You pulled the state out of public property and put it on private property. These are facts that are difficult to argue with. I understand that you're hurting, and I understand that you don't like it, but that's still the case. When we look at this bill, I would recommend to you a few sentences regarding the debate on the bill, which is included in the bill, for example, and from here we see that Olga Kálmán did not read the law and did not consider it important what was written in it, because we could hear a pre-written judgment about the law, that the castle building and the public collection in it, as well as the opening, operation and maintenance of the park and the garden, would be burdened with it [[Kálmán Olga: It is open now!]] who might take over his operation for 99 years from the state. [[Dávid Bedő: Undefined!]] It also includes allowing the public to access buildings or buildings containing a public collection for free or for a fee of at least 300 days a year. [[Kálmán Olga: It works now!]] So this could be a viable model. It also states that it continues to ensure the visibility of the public collection in the real estate on the day on which the property is managed or acquired, in accordance with the laws and implementing regulations on museum institutions, public library provision and public education. Because here you accused the law of being private castles with a noble simplicity. Well, it's in the law. If you vote for the law, you won't, because that's what's in the law, I've just literally read that's what's in the law. [[Kálmán Olga: That's not what's in it!]] It's too bad I'm the only one who read it, but it's okay. It also includes the fact that the property is operated with the care of a good host, maintains, prevents the deterioration of the property by performing the necessary maintenance work, and ensures that the necessary renovation works are carried out. I believe these legal guarantees prove that our monuments concerned would preserve their former function of public interest, and the law also obliges trustees to maintain the status of our historic buildings. The current bill, unlike your wild privatization and robbery privatisation, now provides strict guarantees for the preservation of state property and excludes the possibility of privatisation in principle. In my view, the important objective of the current bill is to increase the efficiency of public management of the monuments concerned, because there will obviously be a number of castles left to manage the state. This will work as a mixed system, because this is a big debate, and, as the Minister said, there was also a debate at the faction meeting about the law several versions ago. I think the question we need to ask ourselves on this day, in this debate, is that we want important locations in Hungarian history to continue to be visited 10-20-30-50 years from now, or you are speaking here according to your political interests at the moment; I think you should choose from this. Thank you very much.
u2023-07-04-107	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the Momentum Group is Mr Dávid Bedő, who is speaking about the platform, the pulpit. Here you go, Congressman. I'll wait for him to come up. You have the floor.
u2023-07-04-108	Thank you very much. We've seen a lot of things in the last 13 years of Fidesz government. However, what they're planning with this castle law is completely unspeakable and outrageous. You'd think they couldn't sink any deeper than before, but they always seem to be lower. It's called the Castle Privatization, which is by definition theft, because for $40 billion of public money to renovate 12 castles, and then give it to my friends for free, it's nothing more than a textbook example of theft. But it is not enough to steal from the country, even the Hungarians who have worked there for years are being fired, people who had a heart to care for the castles, who live locally, and who thought they could retire from here. You come in here, and one day you're gonna rob the locals of their livelihoods. The question I'm asking is that, out of pure malice, because of the pressure of my friends, they need a castle so badly, or because of the deplorable situation of the budget, they have to play these castles. But knowing their power, maybe all three of them are involved. But let's see what arguments they use to defend the indefensible. You claim that a number of noble families in the West have also handed over their castles, property, property and property to foundations. You believe that the same will happen in Hungary with the property being owned by foundations. That's just not true. The said families or the State, where appropriate, have placed the property in foundations which remain their own. The Hungarian state, on the other hand, is planning to give its own property into private property without having even income from it, that is to say, it is willing to give up huge wealth, unlike the families mentioned above. You claim that the state is running the castles with a huge payment and that the foundations will be able to operate it more effectively. That's another lie. On the one hand, we do not have any basis for comparison to verify this statement in Hungary, on the other hand, no one is psychic, no one knows in advance who the owners will be, and what they will use the properties for. There is no guarantee that these buildings will be maintained profitablely. So far, these castles have been public property, national property, national property. Each building bears the memory of a piece of history, a chapter of the Hungarian nation alone. There are public treasures, public tasks, public interests where money is not always the first place, especially when you consider how much senseless things the government spends on. You claim that the foundations will continue to take into account local interests, the aspects of the settlement. That's not true either. Most of the employees of closed castles have been fired, putting the livelihoods of many local families at risk. The owner from far away is not obliged to display the interests of the locals among the operational aspects. You believe that foundations of public interest can receive real estate, or other private actors, companies, i.e. they will continue to serve the public interest and benefit all Hungarian people. That's not true either. Fidesz exploits law-abiding, law-abiding people and their good faith. [[15.50]] The word magic, trick! In fact, virtually anyone who is classified by the government can have these properties. You claim that the government is not a good farmer, the Minister said so himself. I'm asking why this argument doesn't come up when Vodafone is being bought up. Why doesn't it come up when they want to buy back the airport in Budapest for the state? Then why is the government a good farmer, and why not when they want to play the castles for free? And you also claim that the Momentum is using the castle case only to create confusion, its aim is to make political profits. That's a lie! We don't want to be disturbed. We want order on the castles. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You always want order!]] It means that ownership conditions don't change. It means that the locals can continue to interfere with the fate of their local castle. Fidesz is the distraction because he wants to play the national fortune again. But if we're already under attack, let's see what Momentum did to protect the castles. In the affected settlements, János Stummer and my fellow politician [[Nacsa Lőrinc: He's a better man!]] We have organized the castle protection network, thanks to which we have collected thousands of protest signatures in these 12 settlements. In addition to the collection of signatures, several protests were organized: in Nádasdladány, Degen, Tata and Edelény, where the locals protested loudly against castle thefts. And in Miskolc, we spent several hours trying to prevent the Borsod County General Assembly from being able to seal the fate of the castle of Edelín without public involvement. As usual, Fidesz had the police do their dirty work and had a dozen uniforms drive us out of County. Mr. Secretary. You recently promised the Eger and all Hungarian citizens when we collected 9,000 signatures along the bypass route that the government would not make a decision that the locals concerned did not want. Then why are you pushing these castle thefts now? Thousands of signatures, hundreds of protests, chateau rescue networks all prove that locals who grew up in the affected settlement, who have the heart of castles, and whose livelihood depends on these national treasures, do not want castle privatization, do not want fidesz entrepreneurs around their necks, and do not want these castles to be toys for government buddies. So there is only one right way to go: to end the robbery privatisation and to withdraw this proposal. It's not too late. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2023-07-04-109	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr István Hiller. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-07-04-110	Mr President, Members of the Council and Members of the Council, Dear Minister, I read the text of the law several times. Please forgive me for putting everything I've read in a different context because of my profession and telling you what I mean. After all, what we need to understand first is how Hungarian national history and cultural heritage come together, how much part of it we are talking about, and what part we are talking about was the unity of it all. Then we can place it in our history, while we need to look at it at this moment, we need to look at the cultural heritage of several centuries. So first, I want to set up a historical coordinate for you so that we can try to argue on this basis. Time comes first in the coordinates. These things seem so far away. CHAPTER XVIII 19th century castle, 19th century castle Company furniture... Imagine that more time has passed from the founding of the Hungarian state to the battle of Mohács than from the Battle of Mohács to this moment. It's a longer period. Please, in addition to the time-coordinate, we are also trying to place in the space all the national cultural heritage that we are talking about. It is about what part of the entire national cultural potential heritage is indeed the eight hundred-some castles. We do not have a third of the original Hungarian cultural heritage until the battle of Mohács. The remaining written resources of the fullness of the Árpád-house rulers account for 15 percent of the total. Please, I'll try to translate what that means. Everyone has their own profession. This means that if someone reads all of the Hungarian sources in Árpád-ház, all of them, all of what is left, they will know 15 percent of the total. That's roughly 35 percent of our history before 1526. The cultural heritage that was not left, however strange, was not destroyed in the first half a millennium of our national history. The greatest destruction was caused by the war against the Turks, a few hundred meters from here, on the other side of the Danube, along the liberated areas from the Castle of Buda. I beg you to think that 25 years before Buda fought back, we had the ceiling frescoes painted by King Matthias. On the doorposts, there were entries from the Matthias era, engravings. Or think of Székesfehérvár, the national burial site, which is still a debate. As it happens, there's been such a devastation that bones can't be put together, let alone buildings. Then, after the Rákóczi War of Liberty, the Habsburgs made a very wrong decision to blow up the vast majority of our castles. After that, if they can place this on the map after their former studies, then I am talking about the areas where the former Ottoman conquest area was; consequently, those where it was not affected by this destruction were less affected, but Trianon was able to attach the vast majority of these areas, so I must say to you that by the end of 1920, a completely different scale has been found in Hungary's non-historic territory of national cultural heritage. CHAPTER XX It was centuries old, but in order to understand my reasoning, I had to say this. The other is international experience. I know that a few weeks ago, one of the best experts in the United Kingdom was in our country. The Prince, the former Prince of Wales, was created by the Prince, since then he has been the ruler, and to this day he is the president of this foundation. They treat 400 different historical monuments: castles, manor houses, estates. There is no doubt a model in which the original private owner because there was no state to take it away or even the coroner's property and private equity are managed jointly. This is also the case in Italy. I respectfully ask for the special understanding that this comparison should not be made because in today's Italy there are a number of church monuments, church estates that give special status, so the comparison here is possible in some cases, but does not actually produce results. [[16.00]] The question of restoration in the Czech Republic has been discussed. This is very interesting in the sense that XX. In the history of the second half of the century, there was more identity than difference, and consequently it would have been assumed that there was some reconciliation in the behaviour after 90 if the history suffered was similar. Minister recalled the issue of restoration in the Czech Republic. I think that we Hungarians should think more carefully about this and I will tell you why. It's really not about teaching examples of history, it's about understanding what's going on. They all learned that the Czech aristocracy was the 17th. He was decapitated and became imperial aristocrats in the Czech Republic. You may well know some names, because, for example, after the velvet revolution, an excellent advisor to President Havel Swartzenberg played an important role, one of the families that got land after White Hill. Like Trauttmansdorff, Lobkowicz, Colloredo, Clam, Cololto, all of them. The difference here is that, since they were originally imperial aristocrats, they always had estates, they didn't know that there would be an iron curtain to the west of the Iron Curtain. Therefore, the financial situation of a Swartzenberg was completely different from that of a Hungarian aristocrat, who owned only in the territory of former Hungary, and not in the West. This is why the Czech Restoration may have been based on the fact that, by the way, there was sufficient funding potential for the original owner family because, although it was confiscated from here on the Iron Curtain, it was and remained beyond the Iron Curtain. This is, therefore, another issue worth considering, when it comes to this issue. Then we have to get to the point here: the issue of culture and the financing of national cultural heritage. I'm saying this as a cultural minister of the Gyurcsány government. I'm very proud of him. I sincerely thank you for all the opportunities I have received, and I note from Péter Medgyessy and Gordon Bajnai that I could do it for Hungarian culture. I am truly proud of him with all the advantages and disadvantages of what I have won during castle renovations. With the support of this government, I was the one who initiated the real and actual renovation of the Esterházy Castle, not for a few billion, certainly not all of it. For the record, it is one of the few things that continued after the change of government, since you were already the ones who, if not all, but the vast majority, had finished. It wouldn't be ready if they hadn't finished, they wouldn't have been able to continue if I hadn't started. But there were still debates about the funding of culture, only in a different atmosphere, honourable Members. In 2007, I suggested that we consider the arts and business model for an English sample, the essence of which was to associate private sources with public resources in order to maintain and increase the works of culture and art, and this should be the basis of a new Hungarian culture finance model. For the record, there was a wealthy Hungarian entrepreneur who was involved in contemporary Hungarian art. You may have forgotten, I haven't: it's amazing what I got on my head. I was everything, just not like someone who wanted to renew the funding of Hungarian culture, while the oeuvres of many contemporary artists and the careers of many beginners who have already entered since then have been strengthened or launched. My conviction has not changed since then, and I believe that the state must maintain its guiding role in the financing of culture, but there are other sources, whether from business or from private sources, I am not against it at all, I think it is particularly innovative when it can be properly put together and used to strengthen national culture. It's supposed to be very nice. Now you have to answer the question of how. In this, however, I must bring in the particularly subjective but yet political process that almost paralyzes the sensible professional or professional political debates in the Hungarian Parliament. That's part of the law, but that's not what gave birth to it. I think that we may be few in this Chamber, perhaps just me, who were Members of Parliament many twenty years ago, and I remember those debates. It was a very heated debate. Mr. President may remember it even more than I do. It is not that professional convictions did not conflict and would have been particularly intense. The Hungarian Parliament and the Hungarian Parliament lost all confidence in the content of the debates. It is suspicion and suspicion that entangles this room, and occasional hatred has become almost permanent hatred, which makes it impossible for them to accept opinions from one side, accept and believe statements from the other side. This cannot be described by a single law, rather by the process of a long decade, which is not part of the debate of this law, but is also part of the debate of this law. The opposition does not believe the government, and the government refuses to accept that the opposition can have one sane opinion. I'll never get used to it, I'll never do it again, I'll keep my opinion professional, while you can believe I have a political credo. Therefore, I would like to deal with the concept and specific wording and guidelines of the law in the following areas. The law in the vast majority of its claims [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] he referred to a word "speak" or "speak" which I will explain in detail in a later speech. [[Defiance.]] In the meantime, I'm asking you to think about what the content of a word is. Thank you so much for listening.
u2023-07-04-111	Thank you very much, Congressman. The old routine comes up. Dear House, The Jobbik Group has indicated that two of their speakers will present their group's position. First, I give the floor to Congressman Róbert Dudás. Here you go.
u2023-07-04-112	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, Two, I think, very serious and very focused speeches have already been heard today, from my fellow Member Hiller, and the Minister's exposé has also given us the opportunity to have an extraordinary historical outlook. Thank you very much for that. I myself am a great lover and admirer of historical things, historical facts. At the same time, I think that as a person blessed with extremely good rhetoric, you have now dressed that castle business in a nice robe, whatever you may call it, but I think it is safe to say so, which you now wish to pass through Parliament in the form of a bill, so that you can then go into private hands. [[16.10]] Allow me to say that there is a discreet charm in which, for your part, my fellow Member Nacsa can put privatisation in a completely positive and then completely negative context within a speech, and he can also represent it with an impressive vehemency, be it negative, be it positive, depends on which side we are talking about. Privatization on the left is negative, and my fellow Member has already put this in a positive context on the part of the governing party. No! Privatization has no ideological colour and cannot even be placed in respect of Parliament's horseshoe. I think that privatisation must be seen in its nature itself, and it must be seen from here that we agree, whether we agree or not. I think that there is also a kind of privatisation in the context of this castle law, which is still a separate category, since we are talking about free ownership, even if it is subject to conditions. Very briefly. Over the last decade, so ten years have not yet passed, the landowner structures have been completely transformed, and I think it is closely linked to this bill. You have achieved that farmers have ceased in the last decade, that farmers have ceased, that they have lost their land. These areas were given to people to farm, let's just say, as an artificial nail man, he didn't necessarily mean it, but in terms of land-based support it was very good for him, and here I do not necessarily want to be stuck in a profession, because we have come to the point that certain people have built up not a hundred, but rather a thousand hectares. A landlord system has been established. We have heard a lot of historical examples, and I think I can safely mention this, and there have been examples of many aspects of that era, and there has been a system of landlords. A landlord system has been established that is no longer sufficient, let's say, not a hunting castle, forgive me. A hunting house, it's not enough for him to have a small guest house, which, by the way, was built from EU or domestic sources, around a few thousand, a few hundred or even a few thousand acres of land, or even the edge, now a castle is hitting him. Minister, allow me to say that this is a real communist pace. In the 1950s, the then political elite went up to the Rose Hill and pointed out some forks [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Antal Tiny.]] And then they said it became the Kádár villa, it became the Tiny Fork, and this line could still be classified for a long time. It's happening the same way now. You say you're scolding the period before the change of regime, scolding the communists, doing the same thing in 2023 as the Kádárs, Rákosi, pointing at the villas, but you're not pointing at forks, you're pointing at castles. They gave good comrades villas on the Rose Hill, and you will give your own oligarchs castles. This is not eligible. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2023-07-04-113	Thank you very much, Congressman. The second speaker of the Jobbik Group is János Bencze. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-07-04-114	Mr. President. Dear House, Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, We did hear from you an excellent piece of material, very well-educated, supported by historical facts, and there is an eligible part of it. Just to understand what direction we are in these things, from my profession, I say that a honeycomb is the whole law that has been drawn before us, but if we reform it, we move it, we rewrite it, it could be a pretty good law, and those castles you mentioned are useful, but not exactly in the grouping that these 12 castle plans were. What was the function of these castles? They have a residential and representational function in large estates and land estates. How did they build these? With the benefit of the estates at the time. Then it was a prestigious question of what he was living in, what he lived in, the landlord, the mansion owner, showed his social integration, showed his social status. Then this was brought by history, then lived in Hungary. So what happens now? They want to outsource castles that have been renovated with public money, public money, taxes on other people. We cannot agree with that in any way. Why not? It doesn't have any guarantees. Back in the day, I would remind you that when the state lands were redistributed, a lot of people, especially animal keepers, were enthusiastically renting them, fulfilling the conditions, and then two years later pulled them out of their feet. They spent on it, they bought animals, everything, and stromans bought up the land, people who don't live off the ground. I feel like this law can happen at any time. Unfortunately, you have shown that your promises are worth so much. But if there's a law that's a total guarantee of a four-fifth law, then we say yes. Bad examples: the castle of the Great. I'm Simon Towers. It's in my neighborhood. What's the catch in the law? From the castle of the Dég, the anglers were ejected, I say maliciously, they don't need the poor people to fish there. Then they set the entrance to the castle garden in advance. It's very good to have access to it, whether free of charge or free of charge, to think with your clever mind. So you can set a fee that the dog doesn't go there. That's what it was like at the guest houses. It would have been rented for a rental that maybe the Arab billionaires from Dubai wouldn't have come on vacation there. We can work this out. I'd rather suggest, say, a mansion in which public funds were invested and shared, say, 150 single-euro days a year, and good distribution, not in winter, not at night, in a tourist season, let's say. You can do this in a way that's good, but you just have to have the intention to be really good. Here I read the 2016 castle program, which was still a good material. The moment we stand here and talk about it, unfortunately, shows the failure of this program. Those goals didn't come true, or didn't happen in the way you planned them back then. What was the reason for this? As I mentioned in the historical outlook, then these estate centers were built to make the best use of the financial investment in which this was built. So a count of Festetics didn't overpriced it, didn't make it out of public money, and built it. At the castle program, a lot of renovations smelled very overpriced, let's say, and this proves that very few of them have been built or renovated, and only partially. You are absolutely right, if we build at this rate, renovate castles at this rate, then most of this monument stock will be lost, as a very simple figure proves, in 1945 a castle and monument-like building over 1500 was owned by the Hungarian state, and by 2023 half of it remained, as you say, more than half of it, around 800. 75 years of waste, partly due to the destruction of the communists, the looting, the unpreservation of the chin, the deliberate destruction, half of it was destroyed. If we keep this up, you're absolutely right, the rest of us will be destroyed. What proposals could be made for the opposition to put something on the table, not just to say the dogmas. The castles that have been renovated from public money, even in part, should not be handed over to private or foundation, the state should bear those twenty-something pieces or twelve pieces as its own burden. I think that even in this ruinous state, Hungary's economy is superb enough to produce it, to find a common goal and function for it! However, if we've talked about the new layer of landowners, new entrepreneurs, those who have been created since 2010, well, let's give them a job, give them prestige. As an example of the Esterházys, the Festetics, anyone, receive such a building and go backwards. Not the best, nicely apply for it, no public money can be used, no tax incentives can be used for it, and show that this layer, who calls itself the leading elite of the country, the elite of the economic leader, shows that they know the same thing as the people referred to as your predecessors to renovate from their own wealth in order to strengthen their own prestige, repair these devastating properties and operate them, and then, I say that we add social function to these, because some of the national wealth was given free. Let it be your intention to show that this is not public money, so that our castle program does not become a stroman program, where more of the trombones here have told me public money is invested in it, and then impose conditions that no one will ever be able to visit those properties as a public collection, because they simply will not be able to pay the ticket. [[16.20]] I actually told you all our fears. So if we move along this line, and you're willing to have a complete, constructive debate, even through the castle crest, we'd be partners in this, I'm just saying, we have one request, not a new strobe world at the castles, but we really want them to be used for the sake of the public, according to good intentions and promises. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2023-07-04-115	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the group of our country is Mr István Szabadi, who is speaking on the stand from the pulpit. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-07-04-116	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear House, The Minister's exposé was indeed remarkable and can be agreed with the objectives, but T/4252 on the sustainable development of certain elements of cultural heritage. Less so with bill number 1. Let's see. In 1998 the first Orbán government also faced the embedded communist world that was created as a result of the privatisation in the area of the regime change. The essence of this was that the Communists saved their political power as an economic influence, that is to say, they carried the country apart and brought home the national wealth. At Covid's time, the fourth Orbán government began the same privatisation when it organised vital public tasks and thousands of billion forints of state assets into public-interest trust foundations filled with government cadres. During the outsourcing of the two-thirds protected property, the State has issued national treasures such as the total stock package of MOL and Richter, the Royal Castle of Gödöllő and one half of the island of Shipyard. Thus, before the legislative elections in 2022, the government, like the Communists, strengthened its political power into a long-term economic influence. The bill before us is the culmination of this process. I protested against this bill when it was only in administrative consultation. In my oral question at the beginning of May, I complained that the ownership of 12 castles or the management of assets would be transferred free of charge to public-interest trust foundations or other private-law entities. The list of 12 castles has been removed from this bill and covers the free ownership or management of certain state castles, mansions, mansions and related parks and gardens. But we can be sure that they will not only give private hands to empty decaying buildings, but also castles renovated with public money and intended for tourist attractions in recent years. This is indicated in the general statement of reasons that the bill places on the basis of new foundations the further development and maintenance of certain properties retained by the Hungarian taxpayers' sacrifice. Dear fellow Members, In 2015, the government announced the national castle and castle programme, which should have originally renovated 39 castles and castles from EU sources across the country by the end of 2020. The project, as usual in public investments, was not completed by deadline, and a quarter fewer monuments, at least 30 castles and castles were renewed, the total cost of the renovations was HUF 54 billion, of which more than HUF 40 billion was financed by the European Union. Of course, I don't have to say that most of the procurement procedures were won by NER companies, but I didn't say anything new. We also disagree with the fact that equipment borrowed from museums or purchased on the art market would also remain in the privateized building ensembles. There are so many restrictions that ownership of these often priceless cultural goods is not possible, but only property management rights. On the basis of the bill, the transfer of monuments into free ownership or asset management would be decided by Minister on request, with transfer at the registration value. Gifted properties would be subject to a disposal and debit ban for 99 years, after which the State would only have a pre-emptive right, i.e. to take back public buildings for serious billions. The asset management right would also be 99 years old, and the trustee would not take too many risks, because on the one hand he does not have to pay a asset management fee and would receive budget support for the operation during the first ten years, while the proceeds would remain with him. It's hard for me to appreciate this as a good farmer, because we give it away for free, we even give money for its operation, and we even give up the proceeds. The bill ensures the maintenance of the museum function of monuments by allowing the new owner or trustee to undertake, in addition to the operation and maintenance of the property, to keep the buildings open for at least 300 days a year and the parks and gardens open every day between 10 and 19 o'clock. However, the operation of museums is not a big deal. Private actors will certainly make the operation of monuments profitable by creating a hotel wing, organising events or other events. There is no guarantee that museums will sooner or later be excluded from the buildings. Dear fellow Members, Prior to the bill, National Heritage Development Nonprofit Kft., responsible for the preservation of Hungarian monuments. In March, he announced a group reduction, and in April, in the spirit of rationalization, the castles of Edelény and Pécel were closed, and the workers were put on the street overnight. I've mentioned that before. Unfortunately, with such and similar measures, I would like to prove that the state is unable to operate the castles, there is a need to involve private actors. The castle of Edelény is the largest tourist attraction of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County. The Edelényi also protested against the closure of the castle with signatures, expressing a clear opinion that the function of the castle should not change and that the castle park could be visited free of charge. As a result of the widespread protest and public uproar, it was decided in June that Edelényi Castle Island will be managed by the municipality of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County and will soon reopen, with HUF 270 million in support from the government. However, the contract is only until 15 May next year, and there is no guarantee that it will not go, let's say, into private hands. The Fidesz, after making this circus in the spring, now acts like the savior of the castle of Edel, which is both comical and deplorable. The workers began to be taken back, apparently everything is fine, except that during several months of closure, the grass grew in the gardens of the castle park. The mayor of Edelény stated that the municipality had nothing to do with Edelényi Castle Island, however, at the initiative of four representatives of the local government, as a result of a wide-ranging social cooperation, hundreds of voluntary aiders in the castle park have ended the unbaughty conditions in recent weeks. The movement was also joined by the local organization of the Hungarian Movement, but no one from the municipality participated in the work. The MiHazák Movement is concerned about the bill, because while the key monuments of national heritage are being squandered, the development and operation of the property will continue to be carried out by private actors mainly through state aid, while the revenues from the exploitation will flow to them. It is clear from public-interest trusts that the new maintenance model has failed, it is not marketable, it is clear that without State aid, the system would collapse. Therefore, despite the expected private capital, it is almost certain that the model offered by the current bill will not work without State aid. Unfortunately, this bill does not guarantee that the required and necessary private capital investment can be monitored in a credible and real way. A number of questions and ideas need to be considered in this regard so that well-meaning goals can actually be achieved. The Hungarian Movement trusts that these goals can be achieved in the future so that the capital invested can truly become valuable, whether from a private point of view or from a public part, so that they really represent the value that the Minister spoke so nicely about in the Expoze. Thank you for your attention. [[16.30]]
u2023-07-04-117	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the Dialogue Group is Mr Tamás Mellar. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-07-04-118	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Dear Minister, I would like to continue where István Hiller left off, but I think he will continue to say that there is a general lack of trust on both sides, from the government side to the opposition and from the opposition side to the government. With regard to the negotiation of this bill, I would like to go beyond that, clearly, in terms of the objective that the Minister has set here, what is actually the purpose of this law, so its objective is to protect heritage by involving private capital, I think it is a good goal. However, the bill that lies in front of us is particularly inappropriate for this, it is not good for this, for this purpose to be achieved, and it would be our job if the government side took it seriously to work together, to try to draw up and put together a bill from it that can really achieve this goal, but there will also be adequate guarantees in all aspects, and then I think that the majority of the opposition can support it. It is in this bill, isn't it, and I am quoting it literally:, through the strictly controlled involvement of private capital, it is sustainably and sparingly that this must all be done in this way. At the same time, however, the whole law cannot be seen with any kind of normative regulation that would clearly state and describe this, but instead we see that the minister decides in one person who he gives it to, no criteria are laid down in the law. Obviously, it's a point that we can't accept in plain sight. Then there's two kinds of handover, there's a free ownership, and there's a transfer to asset management. Obviously, we should also consider what the meaning of these two types of discrimination is, because the transfer of property does not mean real property, because it is limited, so it cannot be passed on, it is for a certain period of time. Therefore, it would not be appropriate to consider, for example, a form of transfer to asset management as a general solution, and then to work out the methods that are needed to make this truly work. And then a number of people here suggested that it was originally about the handover of 12 castles, but now we don't see what list there is. So it would be very important to include in an annex what the castles, mansions and mansions in question are, in any case, to be covered by this law. Obviously, the part that should also be dealt with here is that the 27 buildings for which significant amounts of public and European Union funds have been used should not be included, because it is another story, and it would indeed be such a free transfer of wealth. It would be very important that, if such a list were to be compiled, it would obviously be necessary to form types; therefore, not just a list, a list, but at least three, four or five, six subtypes, and procedures for these types should be developed in order to make this work. And instead of a ministerial decision, it would obviously be more appropriate for a decision committee to stand up which would decide and decide who would then receive this asset management and how, under what conditions, which is clearly the government side in committee, but the opposition side, and it is very important that professional organisations also have a seat, and obviously also local authorities. This could be the guarantee that could actually be forward-looking to a real and substantial solution to this case, because I think that there is broad agreement that these properties, these inheritances, should be protected. There is also agreement that the state does not have enough money for this. And there is also agreement that the private capital should be involved in this whole story in some way, but then it must be done in a transparent, controlled way, so that it cannot come to mind that there is nothing here other than the transfer of renovated castles to friends, the buddy circle, because then we didn't actually get ahead, and then we didn't solve this problem, but rather deepened it; and then no one can wash off the fact that they gave the land, the property, and now they add castles. I would like to believe that such a suggestion will not be justified, because you will substantially amend this law and include guarantees that are acceptable to all of us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-07-04-119	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Now is the opportunity for two-minute speeches... [[There's no signal.]] The one no one's applied for. Minister János Lázár asked for the floor on the part of the government. Here you go, Minister. I'll wait for him to put his microphone on. It's okay. [[He pinches John Lazarus's microphone on his jacket.]]
u2023-07-04-120	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House of Representatives, I would like to thank my fellow Members who took part in the main speaker's round for their contributions, even if some comments were over-excited and personal. The mood and style of the House have changed a lot over the last 20 years, my fellow Member Hiller is right, and in the wrong direction, if I may say so. I would respond briefly to the facts, recommending to all opposition groups, in addition to the Fidesz and KDNP factions, my colleague, Regő Lánszki State Secretary, who is available to receive amendments and improvements. I don't think it's closed, and I'm not dogmatic about the text of the bill. So I do not consider the text to be closed, and I do not insist on all the details of the proposal in dogmatic form. I came here to discuss a conceptual issue in the context of the general debate, and I did so in the hope that I would receive constructive comments from the legislative authority as a representative of the executive power in order to ensure that state wealth is an important part of how we manage it for all of us. However, I would like to add that the kind of historical perspective and calm that Mr Hiller has outlined here is necessary in any way, even because if someone is looking at the history of this castle stock, then the one thing that we should be nailing down and that will not entirely coincide with the position of many in this House is that the original sin was nationalization in 1945 and until 52. Except for the young Communists of Momentum. [[David Bedő will spread his arms. The president's ringing the bell.]] But it was all a total misunderstanding, and he continued the kind of annihilation that has hit this country for a thousand years, and XX. He made me a bed for the cultural barbarism of the century, the consequences of which we drink. The other mistake I think is that in 1990, at the time of the change of regime, the political elite did not settle this issue. I do not agree with my fellow Member Hiller why he did not, I think that there were much more professional political reasons why there was no restoration in Hungary in 1990, because the regime change in 1990 came from the parliamentary elections in 1945, and all the parties that started in the parliamentary elections in 1945, which could start during the Soviet occupation, were only partially democratic, since there were banned voters and banned political parties, all parties who participated in the elections in 45 agreed in the land reform. [[16.40]] In 1989-90, I think that the political elite of that time, who were still alive and present, had reason to fear that it was unclear what the consequences of that social opposition, that extreme social relationship were 45 years later, and that raised his head equally on the right and on the left; I refer here to the Christian social movements; I refer here to the movement of folk writers. So there was no political party where they weren't looking for the legitimacy of a new system, they weren't trying to legitimize an old system. No one wanted to restore in 1990 in the parliament at that time, apart from some small farmers, the ownership before 1945. That this was wise enough, should have waited five or ten years, as they did in Romania, or did in other Central European states, is another question. Because the kind of change of property that changed the fate of these properties and the assets attached to it also took place in the civilized West, only there they did not confiscate, but introduced tax laws. After the First World War, the English Labour Party formed a government in England in the 1920s, which essentially triggered the same process with gigantic inheritance tax and property tax, since the fragmentation of large land estates between the two world wars was ongoing in Central Europe in Germany and Western Europe - in England as a result of tax laws, especially inheritance tax and property tax. So the kind of large estate system, which was violently charged in Hungary in '45, would have slowly transformed itself in a state reson operating within a democratic framework. This is what happened in Austria: the fate of the Esterházy faith trust in Austria shows exactly what social climate change has taken place, or has happened in England and all the countries of Western Europe. And there have been very serious difficulties in protecting and preserving the built heritage, which has only one lesson: without the cooperation of the state and private actors, these gigantic properties are simply untenable in England and Western Europe today. In Germany, there are perhaps ten other families, and in England there are not more than twenty who are able to maintain such a property on the basis of their own property, under the right of their own property. By the way, they've all turned it in, handed it over, or run it with the state, and, of course, opened it up to the public. This is the reality that has taken place in XX. In the century. This would have happened in Hungary as well, since it should not be forgotten that the land reform started in part in the twenty years, and only because of the Second World War, the system that was and existed between the two world wars in Hungary did not continue, but everyone knew precisely that those land estate conditions were untenable. In Hungary, there is a subject swept under the carpet: this is the church property. I think that's what the system-changing politicians were most afraid of, that the Roman Catholic Church would get back the 500 thousand hectares of property that belonged to the Catholic Church before 1945, and I would add that, as part of the state forest, one million hectares of state forest are still owned by the Hungarian state. So I think it's appropriate that all these aspects should be known to those who speak, that there is a historical context, without which all of this cannot be interpreted. I would also add that if someone looked at the fate of these buildings: Eszterháza was built by Miklós Fényes in the XVIII. In the century; the family was destroyed into the 19th century. In the first decades of the century; it was essentially empty for a hundred years; it took a hundred years to rebuild it, and a next hundred years to be renovated for the third time. Nagycenk was essentially empty from 1920 to 44; Tiszadob was owned by a Belgian bank. The castle of Edelény was completely empty between the two world wars, there was no owner and no meaningful exploitation, and I could list these gigantic properties, these huge castles. Between the two world wars, the Prince of that time did not use it in essence, nor did he function as a museum, I add. So even between the two world wars, the world was changing and transforming substantially, and these buildings were not easy to maintain. The appearance of the new rich was also followed by the press of the era in a style similar to the current debates, when Deutsch, then the Hatvany-Deutsch, and later the Hatvany family bought the Castle of the Grassalkovichs in sixty, surrounded by similar communistic and anti-Semitic speeches as we have just heard here. So the resistance to the new rich was enormous in the 19th century. In the 20th century and in the 20th century, C.E., when newcomers bought these castles from old owners or other financial institutions. What I would like to add: In 1990 the Hungarian National Property Act attached a list of hundreds to the law, which is still there; these castles were made inalienable and unfit for traffic. These are basically what we are talking about here, because there is another group that has been registered in the register of Hungarian national assets as something that can be sold. Some of these are sold by the Hungarian state, regardless of governments, I add. From 1990 onwards, if there was a demand, this meant mainly small mansions, rural houses and small castles, which were bought in and much of it was restored. If anyone is in the countryside, you can see that in many places in Hungary many smaller buildings have already been renewed. Some were taken over by the authorities, and some were taken over by the churches, who also took care of their fate. The state-owned castle wealth consists of two parts: there is a prominent castle fortune, which is of unquestioned historical significance; it must be further functioned as a state castle, a museum, for the sake of cultural heritage and built heritage. We have dilemmas about the exploitation of the other part. Here, many have mentioned these dozens of castles, for which we have used European Union funds to renovate them and try to fix their fate. I understand that the European Union's taxpayers' money has a common concern for all Hungarian voters and their MEPs, but I would add that to make full use of these facilities, whether we are talking about Deg, or whether we are talking about Füzérvány, it would be worth looking around for my fellow Members there, because we need an additional investment of 5-10 billion; these are semi-finished buildings. I've been all over these buildings; I've known them quite well for a very long time; I think I may have more than average information and material about these buildings. I can safely say that there is no completed building that shouldn't be spent billions yet. The question is whether the Hungarian State is trying to do this, or whether we involve, where appropriate, capital-powered companies that are able to do so while maintaining a public function in the interest of social responsibility; and we work together to establish a regulated framework for this to be acceptable to everyone. And there is a group of properties that are not managed by me, but by the Hungarian National Asset Manager, which, by the way, constantly advertises and sells them; and there are some that are sold out, because they may have no historical significance, prominent monuments, and those highlighted monuments are protected. Those who think that a private individual or other private entity like the State would not be a good owner of the monument talk nonsense. The churches are also good owners of the monuments, the municipalities are good owners of the monuments; and you also know a lot of individuals from their friends, acquaintances and voters who are excellent owners of the monuments here in Budapest, for example, all historic apartments or residential complexes in downtown. Thus, the fact that something is private does not exclude that the aspects of the protection of monuments are fully evident; therefore, there is no need to be afraid of that, and the criteria of regulation must be well defined. Some examples I'd like to make up for. The Royal Castle of Gödöllő is run by the University of Gödöllő. I haven't heard any complaints about the operation, except that the University of Gödöllő may have more chance of involving external resources than a castle kt. that has worked so far. The castle of Edel was mentioned. The castle in Edelény will be the better owner of a Budapest-based state entity, the municipality of Edelény, or the Municipality of Borsod County, because you are on the one hand talking about the ownership of the castle, and there is an intellectual debate in principle that they must remain in state hands, legally in state hands. I believe that some of the castles in the expoze and, as they have just said, draw attention to the importance of the historical past and join my fellow Member Nacsa, but we do not necessarily have to insist on the other part as owners. And here I would like to draw attention to the fact that I am not at all satisfied with the way the Hungarian state operates these properties. I understand those bullshit bullshit bullshit bullshit bullshit bullshit bullshit bullshit bullshit bullshit bullshit bullshit bullshit bullshit bullshit bullshit bullshit bullshit bullshit bullshit bullshit. The municipality of Tuzsér has applied for the Castle of Tuzsér. What do you think would prevent the Municipality of Tuzsér from receiving the property from the Hungarian State and being its owner? I understand the movement of my fellow Members in this moment, that they went to all the settlements, from Budapest to the countryside; it would have been very good if they had also slaughtered the grass. I understand the locals' attachment to the castle parks, but someone's cutting the grass. I'd be happy if the locals you've mobilized would just scythe and chop off, say, grass, because that would be really helpful. So everyone expects everything to be restored in its original state, everything to be extra, but in the meantime, no one wants to pay any more admission fees, no one wants to pay a separate financial contribution, no one wants to maintain them, and no one wants to cut the grass off, so I don't know who they're expecting it from. [[16.50]] It is better to have an owner that this owner or trustee can be the subject of the dispute, have a direct, direct owner who feels he owns it, who feels it is his own. I can't understand why the Pannonhalm Benedictine Archabbey couldn't be a trustee of the Majk castle. The Pannonhalmians, who have been doing the best church tourism work in Hungary for many long decades? What kind of obstacle could that be? And, of course, I would like to add here that I have negotiated with the representatives of historical families who have the right to ask that what we are talking about here is very beautiful, leaving them out of the whole story, and there may be some of them who would like to apply, like György Károlyi, to be ready and able to make use of old properties together with the state in asset management. I don't think that's gonna stop us. Now, what a capitalist layer there is in Hungary: I understand these biases, I think that we need to find guarantees to protect the built heritage and protect the cultural heritage. If the Parliament had made a different decision in 1990, this debate would not exist now. But we didn't make any other decisions, and we have an unsolved problem. As a member of the government, I thought I would make a suggestion, try to use an innovation to involve private capital in the operation of these properties. I didn't consider that it would trigger such terrible emotions and lead to oligarchy. I would like to make a comment here for what is obviously to be classified as centuries of time, but the biggest accusation against Sándor Károlyi for the rest of his life and all the Charles who exist has always been that he made the Satmar peace in order to gain access to Rákóczi's assets. So how who gained their wealth in this country, and hundreds of years later how the next generation used it for the benefit of the public, 300 years ago, I note that 500 years ago, 600 years ago and 200 years later, there will still be a great debate. I think what we have to do is that if someone has made a fortune in this country for the last 32 years, we force him, we motivate him, we encourage him to do good for the public. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-07-04-121	Thank you very much, Congressman. We now have further speeches. First I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Gréczy of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2023-07-04-122	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, This whole debate is partly culturally historical, but it is a good view of the fact that it is possible to argue intelligently about cultural history or national cultural heritage, but in your opinion, the past 30 years or the period between 45 and 52, others say that the past 13 years do not strengthen these trust relations. Well, how can the opposition believe that there is no slander behind this when it comes to the fact that some of the European Union's money has become rich billionaires from the Prime Minister's environment and fidesz politicians? There was no mention of this when Hungary joined the European Union. It was not said that these people would now be in a position in relation to Hungarian castles, mansions, lords that they would be the new Hungarian aristocracy or new Hungarian ownership. Butcher Lőrinc will never be Count Andrássy. So I'll never believe him, even though he's telling you to be brave! I will never believe that he represents any interest of the Hungarian nation for one second. There is no such person in Hungary, he is Viktor Orbán's extended arm in Hungarian economic life and Hungarian political life. An Andrássy von Haus aus brought with him a culture of action for the country; a Széchenyi, a Festetics, in the same way. Why would I think that about István Garancsi, who ruined the football team in his hands? So it's quite simply that there are such trust issues here that they have also said... so now those who have gained wealth from having a private trafic, let's say, six pieces thanks to the Fidesz's blessing, and now they have a lot of money out of this otherwise pissed-off fortune, they are now given another opportunity to make the money that they have earned with billions of so-so-so, uncompetitive tender, and the rest, these funds will now be invested in a castle program where they will benefit even more from this situation. Once he had beneficiaries when they took EU money and became billionaires, then he became beneficiaries now, when they were asked to apply for a castle, and then he could be the owners of this particular castle. I assume about these people, this is my honest opinion that they will actually be entrusted to the Fidesz government to rule these areas, again with possession, again with something and not with others, or to take it out of government management, this is the case, and I think it is a very serious problem. There is also a history of privatisation here, which is very interesting because there is a fellow Member who specifically remembers everything, Ferenc Gyurcsány said that Ferenc Gyurcsány is a privatisation. When Ferenc Gyurcsány appeared in the privatisation market, the Antall government was in power, KDNP was in power. They were the ones who laid down the rules that allowed privateisation at the time, because the whole point of the regime change was not to be state property, but to be competitive, and all kinds of people could apply from everywhere. This happened during the Antall administration, so let's not forget that KDNP was in power then, otherwise that Fidesz really hated KDNP, and vice versa. But this is another historical perspective of the story.
u2023-07-04-123	Yeah.
u2023-07-04-124	Thank you very much. Congressman Latorcai, Mr President, remembers these times well; yes, as a great witness of great times. So, back to the castle program, I think there's a mistrust in this case because we think there's going to be another theft. There will be expropriation, and there will be elements of wealth that are still uncontrolled and blessed with dishonest wealth, who will then rip out even larger estates for their benefit. It is already that one third of Hungarian property is owned by 1 percent of Hungarian society. The same 1 percent is now because obviously József Kovács and Sándorné Szabó will not apply for the operation of these castles in the household, it is now that the same circle will be given another opportunity to expand its assets, thereby making it even richer. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] I think we should have thought of a solution to what would happen if the state could maintain them. It can't be the amount the state couldn't put aside gradually. It turned out from the Minister's speech that, together with EU support, very few monuments could be renovated. Well, in the next period, there will be no EU support. The people who are the oligarchs of the Orbán system today will not have access to the billions of European Unions that have maintained their power, wealth and influence. Then how are these people going to spend money on their declining money and influence to renovate these castles, say? And speaking of museums, it's extremely important to say that these museums are dying by selling the building to private individuals. Well, whoever's gonna see that business can be made of it will say that there should be a little less museum, and it would be more of a conference room, be a hotel, be a bowling alley, tennis court, anything. [[17.00]] And no one's gonna be able to tell him because he's got 99 years to say it wasn't like that. It is already the case that museums in these institutions and buildings are raging. People who worked there were fired from their jobs in order to prepare this kind of privatisation. So there are a lot of problems with that. And I also understand that there should be a settlement that would come forward and say that he would take the castle near him. From what? How is that small settlement going to sustain the castle or estate you've been seeking? You're gonna go for that one separately? Well, then it's up to the state! Otherwise, you don't have the money to pay the public workers, you don't have the money to keep the roads in order in the village. So, this is a much more complicated, much more complex question. And even if we are at a debate starter right now, I must say that the Democratic Coalition is watching this proposal with great mistrust. We do not believe that there is no business in it, we do not believe that if not otherwise, then, in view of the emergency situation, a decree will appear at 24 hours and 13 minutes at night, Zsolt Semjén will submit that everyone has the full ownership of the castle, and then one day we will wake up to the Parliament's vote. Now, this is the fundamental problem, so the Democratic Coalition does not support this program, nor does it support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-07-04-125	Thank you very much, Congressman Zsolt Gréczy. The next speaker is Lóránt Keresztes, representative of LMP.
u2023-07-04-126	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I don't know if Minister Vane is still coming back, he's watching the debate; let's trust him. I think that this is an extremely important debate, and it is surprising to me, by the way, how this debate is going and what can be read from this debate so far. We can say that the Minister's exposé and his speech during the debate, his reaction to the speech of my fellow Members, may surprise us all and show a whole different intention than that which I believe the press information, on the basis of the bill submitted and perhaps the first article of the Reply, has caused as a legitimate reaction not only from opposition political actors, but also from a very, very many actors and public figures, which are otherwise linked to the government side. I think we can agree deeply that there is an unsolved task that you have been talking about, Minister, there is a huge problem. Today, our cultural heritage, the protection of our built heritage, and this kind of national wealth, this kind of national treasure, are not solved. Unfortunately, we also see very, very many problems with the elements of our highlighted built heritage, mentioned by Minister Lazarus, and therefore also with the castles of great importance and historical importance. I clearly think it is positive that a thought has started on the part of the government, but the kind of mistrust that I think the government perceives and senses is certainly not surprising to the government side, and I think that not only on the basis of 13 years, but also on the basis of the practice of the past decades, and on the basis of the power and political logic of this current-regulating government. So, as Congressman Gréczy has said, it is not really the kind of wise insight, reflection, thinking and well-meaning debate that is typical of this government's decision-making, which can now be seen from Minister János Lázár's exposé and speech here. In fact, I sense a strong contradiction. And I do not even think it is impossible that the Minister has a positive intention, let us say, and, by the way, his positive attitude to these castles, which represent our national treasures, can be seen. At the same time, I can imagine another government decision being made, which brings this, let's just say, a well-intentioned proposal in a very, very bad direction. So the lack of confidence on our part is completely there, and I think that's something you can't be surprised by from experience. It is clear, and I think that it was possible to read without exception from all opposition representatives' speeches that there is no parliamentary faction here that does not consider it important to protect our built heritage, this kind of cultural heritage, our national heritage, and that it does not consider it important to protect monuments and the preservation of these wonderful monuments. And I didn't realize that anyone doubted that this was a huge challenge. I think that the events of the past months, the political decisions of the last few months, are somewhat in conflict with what the Minister spoke about in his exposé. I also accept and think it is a very important idea that heritage protection is far more than just the preservation of beautiful and valuable buildings. Unfortunately, however, we must find that what is seen may not have happened in this spirit. In any case, I think it is very important because many people are watching this debate, many people are following the fate of these wonderful buildings, to thank all those who have fought not only in the last one or two years, but in the last 13 years, but also in the last decades, for their efforts to protect our built heritage. A lot of people have done so in many different positions in every government cycle, and a lot of people are fighting for it now and consider it a matter of heart, not just a job to protect these buildings. And I would also like to thank those who care about these buildings, the fate of these monuments, and who, by doing very serious professional work, follow them, publish about the fate of these buildings, whether they write a book or lead a blog, and indeed serve to save these buildings by giving us all information in this way, or even by drawing attention to decision makers when there is a serious threat to such a property or even more such property. Well, I think that the bill, in its present form, is not suitable for the debate that the Minister has drawn up here on the basis of the speeches. The submission of this bill and the events of recent months show that I think this debate is important. I would very much like the government to conduct this debate with this habitus and this attitude, but I do not think that this bill is a good place to start. I would consider it wise that if the Minister really had good intentions, if he really wanted to pursue a consensus and really felt the political influence that he could take it through the government, then I think it would be justified to withdraw this bill and launch a comprehensive social policy debate on how a national consensus on this issue could really be established. I am convinced, by the way, that, knowing the thinking of relatively many political groupings, the attitude of many, many, interested and committed Members, that it could indeed be on this issue, we can say that it is refreshing to have a debate that is aimed at national consensus and that is truly positive, without anger. And it would be a very important and positive gesture if Minister Lazarus withdraws this from the bill, and I think that it is a very powerful version of the bill that needs revision. You were referring to Minister, and here I felt some contradiction in the expoze about the destruction that this castle has been through. By the way, I deeply agree with the mention of historical aspects, as well as the fact that there are very serious omissions in the years after the regime change, that we have done nothing to settle the property situation here, and that we can make a meaningful contribution to the positive future of castles, mansions and other monuments. But I find these examples a little controversial because you're talking about 800 state-owned castles. We know that a large part of these are dying, that it is in bad condition, and unfortunately, the situation of castles and mansions will be a devastating, shocking example, but this bill and this debate will not tell us anything about the fate of these castles and mansions. Nothing! As this bill exploded in the Hungarian public, it was not an accident. Here it was really about buildings that were highlighted, wonderful, historical, and otherwise beautifully renovated, or at the stage of the renovation that began, and not about those that were destroyed. I understand that these castles, say, the castle of the Dég or the Esterházy castle in Fertőd, are not fully in a state of innovative renovation, but these buildings were never typical of being in perfect condition. I think that the preservation of a building of such vast scale, enormous wealth and value can also be a goal at a certain moment. So I think that in the case of perhaps 17 castles renovated by the castle program, which is very positive for me, we can say that the most important work, the preservation, has been done. By the way, these castles are wonderful in their external state and appearance, they can fully express their tourist significance and provide employment opportunities. So this castle program was positive, and I think it's the fate of these buildings, you could say it's insured. [[17.10]] So, knowing the structure of the budget, no one wants to tell anyone, I don't think you want to believe that in the case of the 12 renovated castles, there is no way to create the state resources necessary to maintain it. I think that any of us can give a lot of tips as to what kind of budget changes could be made to preserve and maintain these castles, so that they can't come up without having to privatise these castles or give them private hands. And what was still a contradiction, didn't you, Minister Lázár, here, speak of hundreds of state castles, and have already mentioned in his second speech that there are many castles and mansions in private hands, and as he is critical of the state as a farmer, the Minister, although I think that the state could and should be a good farmer, as if it were a little too positive for private owners, and we can say that in relation to the new aristocrats of our time, who, in the last one and a half decades and a half, have clearly multiplied their wealth, how they relate to these monuments. I would like to mention a specific example without walking into one or another particular sphere of interest, so-called oligarch, because that is not my goal right now, so I would really like to bring up a political debate, but I would like to give an example that I am not sure that we should be so optimistic about the attitude of private owners, and that is part of the debate. I have mentioned that there is a lot of valuable and very serious work and professional work, there is a blogger, and I would like to mention the blog of our wasted heritage, I do not know, who is interested in castles, who are interested in the fate of castles, who observe the fate of these monuments, and I think that it is heartbreaking to read such a post, but it is important that someone, together with professional competence, really listen to the fate of these buildings and draw attention when such a castle is in peril. Well, the reason why this blog feels power relations in a public correspondence with the Bonafarm group is a few specific smaller castles in Tolna County, a mansion, and they have received answers from this, we can say, a strong group, that they do not know how many protected monuments are owned, they do not know; but they said in their reply to the blog that they do not have a source for renovation, because the group intends to use the available funds with maximum efficiency for profit-making purposes, although we are talking about protected monuments. This shows, then, that there are some of the winners of our time, among those who now possess protected monuments, and we can say that they do not necessarily use the wealth they have acquired to protect these protected monuments, let us say, preserve them, renovate them and turn to them with some kind of exploitation and exploitation. And if we look at other other capital-powered players, regardless of who they are, it may arise here how many private owners have... so if we talked about hundreds of public castles, how many private owners own a large number of protected monuments and do not do the work that is otherwise required by the law to protect a protected monument. And I'd like to see a statistic, I'll tell you honestly, I don't have that kind of information, and I don't even know how many times it happened when... one of these, you can say, is politically powerful or strongly placed, or has a strong political position, and capitalized entrepreneur has asked in how many cases, let's say, through the Prime Minister's Office, to remove the protection of monuments from such a protected monument. Because unfortunately, I saw concrete examples when, instead of renovating, let's say, in the case of such a capital-powered billionaire, a protected monument for him with play money, he was thrown off the political, I don't know, by exercising influence, we hope, if any, that didn't happen to the protection status of a property, and they gave him a different function, or they had just broken it down. This picture should be seen, because if it is really the numbers that are very, very important, how many of these castles and mansions or related economic buildings, stables, and the rest of them, have been destroyed, then, yes, we all feel the responsibility to do it together in order not to destroy more of these properties, and to renew them as many as possible. But I wanted to point out with this particular example that the state can be a good owner, a better owner, but on the other hand, it is not certain that if the oligarchs of our time, new aristocrats of our time, such protected monuments will surely be treated as a careful host. I am very pleased, as the Minister pointed out, that there is a debate on this within the government side, so I think that this is a question of identity, the preservation of our built heritage, that it is the distribution, distribution, squandering, or that anyone is idly watching from a decision-making position, that they are dying, that is not acceptable; but I am very pleased that there is someone who has spoken about these castles, and that the outrage has not come only from society or from the opposition side. Director L. Simon's opinion was important enough, I think, and he went to the right place, the director of the National Museum, who was the secretary of state for the castle programme, and he also spoke in a very unsearchable way about the plan that Minister Lazarus thus blew up in the public. He said that he insisted that our wonderful buildings, which have been part of national wealth, which have been renovated in the national castle programme he has supervised in recent decades, should remain the property and management of the community. I think that we should fully agree with this, and that if I hope that a new bill on the subject will come into play, then such fundamentals will be included in it. I think it's worth considering Director L. Simon's warnings. Well, unfortunately, I will need a further speech, but heritage protection, that is what Minister Lazarus has been talking about, as I have already pointed out, that heritage protection is indeed about protecting more than fine buildings. So I think that the only way we can talk about heritage conservation is if we respect our predecessors deeply, respect history, respect the historical figures to which Minister Lazarus referred, and respect the structures, the buildings, the building groups that in this way have actually become a part of our history, and in this way have, to some extent, taken part in shaping our national identity. In fact, national heritage protection must or should be guided by such principles and ideas, but what news we are hearing from recent months, such as the change of leadership of the National Heritage Development Nonprofit Kft. at the head, in the way committed workers have been dismissed, unfortunately, it suggests that for the time being [[The president's ringing the bell.]] this approach is not taking place and I will need further speeches. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2023-07-04-127	Thank you very much, Congressman László Keresztes. I give the floor to Congressman István Hiller, representative of the MSZP.
u2023-07-04-128	Mr President, Congresswoman and Congressman Lords! I would like to continue the line of thought that I said in my speech as Chief Speaker, but specifically for the researchers of the future and because of the credibility of the protocol, I must note that in the debate of such a truly significant group of assets in the value, wealth and property of the Hungarian state, that beyond those pro-government representatives who are sitting on the pulpit by their offices, I do not think that there is one in 136 brave people: except those sitting on the pulpit, who would take part in this debate with the opposition, I do not consider it elegant. It reflects thoughtlessness or boredom, and I think that we are talking about things in different approaches that are of fundamental interest to this country and this nation. So courage is worth showing on a Tuesday around 5:00, and not just when you have to vote for a status law. As far as the content is concerned, Mr President, I have concluded my speech as a speaker by saying that the point is in a word, a word or a word, which I would like to talk about and I would like to respectfully listen to your views. It happens several times, but the context is important, namely, free ownership or asset management. The word "speak" here indicates that either this solution, the first or the second, but this very significant difference in content is very significant! And I respectfully ask you to understand that this must also be seen in the context of it, not just to blow something up suddenly, because we are talking about the fate of all the remaining castles in non-historic Hungary. I remember a debate when we were arguing and talking about one, and now it's all about it! of this kind of stock. [[17.20]] We can agree that not all of these castles were the dominant and decisive majority in number, but in percentage they were owned by former aristocrat families over 95 percent. We call him Aristocrat, or noble, a person who, on the basis of some royal favor, has received hereditary and unrequitable privileges except in extreme cases. That's why, on the one hand, they didn't pay taxes, and on the other, there was a security that this castle was mine, because if I was a descendant, my child, then he inherited this property along with the privilege. I think I almost told us that the representatives of the Republic of Hungary, I do not see the Republic anymore, in Hungarian, Hungarian representatives cannot have a purpose, especially the right to create a new Hungarian aristocracy, which we have not received from the voters. If that's the case, then that's where we're going to draw a significant portion of this law. In this connection, I would ask you to respect the short report that I, knowing the content of this law and preparing for today's debate, received an invitation from György Károlyi, and I spent one day in Fehérvárkörg, not as a tourist, but specifically as a financing model, and I felt that I had received profound and honest answers. I think I have detailed and professional knowledge of the model as a whole here, not to mention sums. There, part of an entrepreneurial activity takes place in a hotel, restaurant, conference, from which there is revenue, partly because of its specific connections, it can receive funding from the French State's budget as part of an international cultural network, and because it is doing well, it wins public and European Union funds through tenders, and puts in part the remaining private money. I do not see that this model can be generalised, I do not see the entrepreneurial crowd that would do this either by investing in international relations or private money or from European Union funds to maintain Hungarian castles. Then what do you base yourselves on, whether it is being put into property or into asset management, separated by a word? I must say here that the suspicions of the Members who spoke earlier must be given credit on the basis of previous experience. By the way, I do not see in Hungarian reality, not in general imagining, the layer that we are talking about the model I just told you would achieve this in mass from eight hundred to a few castles, but if we are optimistic and say, the most appropriate quarter, well, please, it is also more than two hundred real estates. Therefore, I would like to make the following proposals to the Honourable Secretary of State, because I cannot do it to government representatives and also to my honourable opposition colleagues, how to think about it. I, in this law, do not support the requirement that the castle owned by the Hungarian state be owned by another. By the way, not on the basis of the reasons that have been said here, but on the basis of a truly long-term perspective, I do not want to cut off at all the ownership of the property, the castle, which is linked to the Hungarian state, this is not a decision for a budget year. Why do you think we are able to see the state of the Hungarian state in 74 years, or 27 years from now? Therefore, to make the decision that, in general, in the case of more than 800 castles owned by the Hungarian State, the law would allow this connection to be cut, is not in the interest of the Hungarian State, and in this respect, it is, moreover, that I do not vote for this because I suspect that I will not vote for it because my opposition fellow Members have convinced me or because I do not want to cut this thread in any way in the interests of the Hungarian State. It doesn't matter! A different approach is not irrelevant. There may be a debate on the latest Hungarian wealth, and it is worth doing so, but this is a significant percentage of the Hungarian cultural heritage, where they want to start an irreversible process, and I will not support it. Therefore, I reject the part in front of the word, i.e. free ownership ab ovo, and if I can take seriously what the Minister has said that this is a text that has not been closed, then I suggest that all relevant content be taken out. Do not commit yourself or force our country into an irreversible decision, while you have no right to place the property stock, which represents a significant part of the Hungarian cultural heritage, permanently on a particular journey. I don't think that's any better than the '45 decision. However, if so, we must continue to think: what about the acquisition of wealth? I think this is thought-provoking; it is thought-provoking to be accepted by me, who may know the cultural budget of the last decades more deeply than a Member of Parliament in general, because I have not seen and seen the group of funds which, by the way, can now, but even later, stand to renovate these properties from the central budget. Now, if that's the case, then it's really worth thinking about certain models for financing, but if we're not thinking about models, then it's not so bad if we're not just thinking about patterns, but maybe we're able to make something of our own. Here's what I suggest: consider the possibility of transfer to asset management under the following conditions. Once again, to be precise, I do not support in any way that this 800-some property is removed from the property of the Hungarian State, and I find it thought-provoking that the acquisition of property is subject to certain conditions. The first condition: I suggest that where a match has started, the match must be played according to the rules set, there is no such thing as a new game rule in the 49th minute, and then we continue the match with different rules there. In the case of castles, real estate with funds from the central budget of the Republic of Hungary and from the European Union, where the renovation started or, if not fully completed, to a certain extent, this form remains. I do not see the possibility or the right of anyone to use the money already put into it for their own particular benefit. This, by the way, is a fraction compared to the number of the property group named, as we have heard, not in terms of total assets. Second, we need guarantees to see that it is in the interest of the Hungarian State alone, in Hungarian, to develop and preserve the national cultural heritage. Therefore, I suggest that we do something that is contrary to the characteristics of the aristocracy, once again: irrevocable and hereditary. [[17 .30]] I suggest that we include a certain experiential review time in the system. I'll tell you that it's at least 15 years, but I'm willing to discuss this time on the basis of experience. The decision, which, in my terms, cannot be anything other than to sell property to property management, I will not talk about it again, because I am not willing to deal with it, and the Hungarian State will be able to review it in 15 years. This is undoubtedly a risk for a legal person wishing to bring property management into that property, the castle. But that's just the way it is in the world. If I want something, and I really want what the law calls the protection and development of national cultural heritage, then they're willing to take that risk! To sum up the proposal: I, we exclude ownership, and if it remains in any form, we will certainly reject it. We consider it possible to manage assets by concluding that where the Hungarian taxpayer or the European Union has already used as much of its money, the renovation will take place in accordance with the original rules and end, and in the remaining cases, the management of assets can be carried out in such a way that the Hungarian State, through the Hungarian legislation, will establish a review period of experience, when I say once again after a certain period of time, my first proposal will look at 15 years to see that the goals of which the law has laid down can be achieved, in the right direction of county, if not, the Hungarian State will be restored in all respects not only its property, but also its property management rights. Mr President, thank you very much for listening.
u2023-07-04-129	Thank you very much, Congressman Hiller. Other representatives spoke by Dávid Bedő, representative of Momentum. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-07-04-130	Thank you very much. I am very sorry that the Minister has left, because I wanted to respond to his words, but I trust that he will look back at his castle at the fairground at night. There is not a debate in principle between us on this issue, but a concrete political debate. We agree with the goals the Minister has given us. We believe so, and I believe that it is important that we preserve these values, preserve these castles, and we can also imagine that we should involve private capital in order to sustain these castles in the coming years, in the coming decades. So that's not the problem. The problem is, we just don't believe you. Our experience in the past 13 years has simply been that every nationalization or government hand-in-hand has served only one purpose, one goal: to make some circles rich in it. You call it building a national capital class, and we call it corruption. We think our definition might be a little closer to it. And you don't have to go that far. Whether we think of the laws of the land, or we think of the tramps marked by János Lázár, which also came into the hands of the state, and then they were distributed among friends, or we think of ESMA, which was taken over by force, and then they also gave them private hands to friends, or we think of highway concessions, which all point in the direction that when you give something from public hand to private, you do so that you have some kind of friendly circle. But you know what? Let's not go so far away, let's look at the castles, let's stick to a specific example of the castle. It may not be necessary to present this castle, a very famous castle, where Cardinal József Mindszenty was held. This castle was owned by the Hungarian National Asset Manager. In 2017, a tender was launched that no one in the world noticed, but no one except one man, Zsolt Barna. Maybe he doesn't need to be introduced, the CEO of the Magyar Bankholding, used to be called or called Orbán Banka. He won this tender for 20 years, 20 years for the potom money of the castle. He didn't touch it for five years, and at the end of 2022 he received HUF 2 billion of EU funding, which doesn't need to be refunded, HUF 2 billion. And then you tell us that they want to give these castles private so that they can be good owners of private foundations and private companies and private property? Let's not joke. Just one small point: I find it particularly amusing when the Minister is communisting us, when you have introduced communist-style price-stops and official prices, and in these benches there are former communists, party members, former Communist party members and KIS Secretarys and whatnot. So, I think you should be careful with that when we're being communisted. Thank you very much. [[Kálmán Olga applauds.]]
u2023-07-04-131	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, LMP.
u2023-07-04-132	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I'll continue to comment. I'm trying not to let too much money go. Well, I was about to start talking about the state of heritage conservation when my time was up. National Heritage Development Nonprofit Kft. As we know it, a man, a specialist, who is not specifically a specialist in this area, is not a professional in the field of monuments. We also know from press reports that it's Kft. Dismissed a quarter of the employees, and another 40 specialists in the field were transferred to the Ministry and divorced from specialists in several castles. I have a good or bad habit of walking around the country a lot, obviously a positive part of the work of a Member of Parliament. Whenever I can, and I'm on my way, I stop by to see the monument buildings, I ask questions, I talk to employees at state-owned buildings, so I have a lot of information. Unfortunately, I have also seen from the past period that there has been increasing and growing concern about the process since the Minister came to power or came into position. So what Minister Lazarus is talking about here at the Parliament meeting, what heritage conservation should be about, we are experiencing the opposite. It would be very good if the Secretary of State could disprove these experiences and say something about the fate of these workers and why we receive such experiences, such feedback from professionals in the field of historic protection and heritage protection. Let's just say I'm trying to be positive about the debate, maybe a little less benevolent than Minister Hiller. I suggested that if the Minister really wanted a positive and forward-looking policy debate that he was talking about here, I think that this debate should be launched with a new law. These are also important aspects that you have said, Minister, but I do not think that this kind of debate is appropriate, with which you have lived, Minister, and I would like to back this up a little more in this speech. It can be read in the bill that the impact assessment has been spent one day on the government side and, as a matter of fact, we cannot see any meaningful impact assessments. So let's just say, if we took seriously the noble aim that you spoke about, Minister, and we also take legislation seriously, then this bill could not have been submitted to the Parliament, even if, let's say, you have been through the Fidesz fraction several times. Let us say that the Fidesz fraction obviously has a substantial influence on what is happening in the country, but it cannot be considered a comprehensive social debate, that we may have heard a debate in several circles, and, let us say, there were disagreements at the meeting of the Fidesz-KDNP faction. The proposal does not contain at all the guarantees which, by the way, Minister considered important in his oral speech. So, in terms of declarations, the proposal, the objective of safeguarding the heritage, is indeed correct, but the fact that this will indeed be achieved is not at all clear from the text of the bill. By the way, it does not clearly define the conditions under which the state would hand out these buildings, and I also deeply agreed with what Congressman Hiller said, Minister, that it is not possible to alienate state-owned valuable castles and monuments from the state. I can say that we have also considered the proposal with lawyers that, in our view, this proposal in this form is against the law, and I would add that its implementation would also exhaust the institution of public authority damage. In particular, the Fundamental Law also lays down that national assets may be transferred only for the purposes laid down by law, with exceptions laid down by law, while taking into account the requirement of proportionality. At the same time, this bill does not provide a framework, does not provide guarantees that meet this kind of requirement, so we believe that this is against the law. [[17.40]] Obviously, it is not possible to break the law by itself, but, after the adoption of the law in this way, its implementation, in our belief, can, however, exhaust the facts of the damage caused by public authority, because the value of these properties and other related elements is so significant that it represents a significantly greater value in the transfer of state assets than it would otherwise have to be spent on these properties. So I think that this is also the reason why this legislation should not be adopted in this way. It would therefore be justified to withdraw this so that a new bill could indeed be a positive starting point for this important national issue. Allow me one more specific example. In my previous comment, I also acknowledged that there is an unsolved problem here. He faced a huge challenge, has to act, has to be legislative, there is definitely a need to intervene in the system. I dispute what you said, Minister, that the state is a bad farmer. What I'm saying is, in this case, the government is a bad owner. I don't want to be just hard on this government. I believe that the governments of the last decades have also proved to be bad owners. Unfortunately, they could not put down and implement a comprehensive and good, forward-looking concept in the area of heritage conservation, but it does not mean that they have to be a bad farmer. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that there is a legislative task, and there is still something that the current government has to do, a need for change, which is essential in order to stop the destruction of these castles or mansion buildings at all. I would like to take a specific example. In Tolna county, in Kölesd Felsőhídvég settlement, I found the Hiemer-Jeszenszky-Bernáth castle on the ground. This is very old, by the way, from our former castles, built in 1760 by Ignác Hiemer, the former board judge of Tolna County. Obviously, multiple naming means that the castle was later in the hands of other owners. It's a protected monument. The fate of this castle is practically sealed. For many decades, they have not done the safekeeping work, despite the fact that this castle is state-owned. By the way, it was shocking for me to watch the fate of this castle on the blog of our squandered heritage, and, by the way, several other articles were created in this context, this wonderful castle was specifically collapsing, so it is only visible in its ruins and lies in the territory of a jungle. The chapel that belonged to it has collapsed, and it was also a protected monument. In this large salon, there was a fresco, II. He portrayed Joseph's hunting accident. This fresco couldn't be saved, the plaster fell, so this fresco was destroyed. In the former reed hall of the castle were portraits of the reeds of Hungary. They were destroyed, too. The shocking thing is that it happened to a state-owned castle that I have information that there were volunteers who tried to find the state maintenance owner with the intention of at least trying to preserve and protect these frescoes on a voluntary basis, but there was simply no answer to them. They weren't allowed to enter the state collapsing castle to protect these frescoes. I find this tragic and irresponsible. So the private characters would have come into play here, volunteering to help at least protect the fresco, but the state didn't move its ears. In this particular case, I contacted Minister István Nagy, because one of his departments was the trustee in May 2021, and I asked him to look into this particular case. After several exchanges of letters, we have come to the point that after a long examination, it has been revealed that the Hungarian National Asset Management is the trustee of this not the National Fund of Earth, but the Hungarian National Asset Management. So, state or state on this, the government has been able to argue, while they have done nothing, and this castle has practically been destroyed. It couldn't be protected in recent decades. By the way, I find this shocking, and it can be said as a precedent that a once wonderful building, otherwise a small, more like a mansion, could simply be destroyed in the hands of the state. I find that shocking. By the way, I filed a complaint. I filed a complaint concerning the destruction of monuments or protected cultural objects, the crime of misappropriation and the justified suspicion of negligence. Well, it's been a pretty amazing experience, the answers I've been given. So I feel that I have documented the case in a very well-founded manner thanks to the experts who have followed the destruction of this historic castle as well as many others, and after such very, very strange correspondence of one and a half years, in June 2022 I received the police's last letter of reply, in which the investigation was terminated, the investigation was terminated. So when it can be objectively justified that a castle, a protected monument, has been destroyed without anyone touching it for decades, in the hands of the state, this does not give rise to any liability, it shows, Mr. Secretary, that there is a task to legislate, because I simply cannot believe that Hungarian laws do not give us the opportunity to enforce the statutory obligation to protect this castle. It's a protected national monument, this castle should have been well maintained. That didn't happen. So there is a legislative imperative in this matter. More about the castle program: Minister Lazarus mentioned the castle program several times. Of 55 billion forints, 10 castles, 17 castles were renovated. I was busy reading the various press releases when they started, didn't I? We could get a general introductory picture when this castle program was running, which was about the restoration of monuments, the preservation of heritage, and that a unique, well-selling package of tourist products should be implemented in Europe, which really interests visitors, and draws attention to the fact that a castle or castle is almost always a symbol of a given settlement, occupies a special place of symbolic value, and also refers to what my fellow Members have talked about, giving jobs to the locals, becoming part of the local identity, and the rest. So he had a positive concept, and it started accordingly with 55 billion forints. I think it is a very important programme, which is very important for heritage conservation, but it is clear that it does not want to release these buildings from the state's hands, but it has called, in a sustainable way, EU funds for operation in many cases, and has also added central budgetary resources so that many castles can be renewed, which is positive, and which is very welcome. But if, then, a few years ago, this programme could have been in favour of such a concept, then why is it now possible that a bill will come before us, which already applies to the free transfer of prominent castles renewed from billions of forints, EU and domestic budget billions. So I am saying this, and it also supports it, is that it is a very, very bad starting point, and this bill is not suitable for a substantive and positive debate. One more closing thought, but I don't want to abuse the time frame. I have, by the way, gathered a number of examples, and it could be supported by why it is not justified to take over these castles as to their historical implications. By the way, Minister Lazarus mentioned a few things, that the Festetics Castle in Keszthely should not come up, the Esterházy Castle in Fertőd. It can be read that in the case of castles there is no possibility of private ownership. But in the other cases, why? So we have a lot of historic castles. Why would they be here? Now I would like to mention an example of a castle that is not so old, so to this extent not so old, this Nádasdy castle in Rádasdladány, which is a relatively new, XIX. The castle of the century. This is a wonderful, one of the most beautiful castles in Hungary. By the way, a lot of people know him. They made a lot of movies in the castle park, inside the castle. It's a historic castle, the 19th. It was built in the century. Under the castle program, HUF 1.5 billion was renewed from EU funds and HUF 212 million from the budget. Despite the fact that the entrance to this castle is not too cheap, in a year and a half 150 thousand visitors came to this castle. So this is a beautifully renovated, wonderful castle. As I look at this castle almost every year, the collection grows more and more, it is beautifully furnished. Wonderful from the outside, wonderful from the inside, the castle park is renewed. So in a year and a half, 150,000 visitors turned up. This castle is annexed to Minister Lazarus' first bill. Why? What is the reason for this, Mr. Secretary of State? In the case of an already saved, wonderful, highlighted, valuable castle, which can be seen to attract tourists when I walk by, always with a crowd of tourists, why would such a castle arise that they want to give it into private hands free of charge, give it free ownership or give it to property management? What's the need? And then I don't want to waste any more time, and there is a long list of examples where very positive processes have started, and in important, truly historic castles, there are many cases of what rulers have turned up there. It is simply unacceptable and inexplicable to privateise castles that have been started for billions, renovated or renovated. [[17.50]] I think that this uppercut was certainly a reason for mistrustful reactions, which, let's say, were not necessarily forward-looking, but were certainly a reference to the seriousness of the case. I therefore ask the Government, Mr Secretary of State, and then Minister, with all due respect that if this is indeed a positive intention, then I think that we will also have a positive welcome and participation, a forward-looking, constructive participation in this policy debate. I think that this could really start with the submission of a new bill in such a way that it could achieve the result. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2023-07-04-133	Thank you very much, Congressman László Keresztes. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. I'm waiting for the candidates on the screen. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application, and therefore the general debate is closed. On behalf of the rapporteur, Mr Balázs Lánszki, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate, is clearly preparing. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary; you have a 30-minute timeframe.
u2023-07-04-134	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Members, First of all, I apologise for the fact that Minister Lazarus had to leave, but I think that there was a small block where he was able to answer a few points in substance, and we want to continue this debate on the part of the Ministry and on the part of the government in any way, and we are standing before you in full openness and constructivity in detail as they were. Therefore, I would like to thank you specifically for the comments that have been made with such an attitude, which have been drawn up constructively, forward-lookingly and in agreement with the intention of the law. Understandably, those which arise more from political overtones or, where appropriate, from problems arising from reading an earlier version, allow me not to comment. There have been a lot of questions about the past, about the international context, about how they do it elsewhere. Before I briefly sum up what was in the debates here, allow me, Congressman, the uppercut you've done... how you've done it in England. In recent months, we have contacted both the Prince and the corresponding German, French and similar foundations and have specifically focused on the castle operation, and we have examined how these work. They don't think with any other model than what we've done here in the law. So this kind of openness in Europe has a serious background and background. In any case, as I have said, in my speech, I would like to standardise a little bit of what has been said, a little bit more and a little bit more. Basically, I am pleased that everyone is concerned about our national built heritage, and everyone is important, and knows that we must do so, that for future generations this is not only treated separately in this law, but later in the Hungarian Law on Architecture, which is not the right to ownership or exploitation, but everything that concerns the restoration of monuments, the promotion of monuments and other constructions, is also due to this thought. But we will be able to discuss that on a later day of debate. Returning here, our castles stand out from the monuments, which are fantastic marvels of Hungarian architecture, which are not only buildings, but also features of a way of life and a historical age. However, we must stress that we cannot be proud of the way the state handled these castles. When we talk about castles, first of all, it must be stated that these are not state property, but private castles, which the state has taken away from private owners. During socialism, power took the land, the artifact and the castle, took it, and as we agreed or talked about it, it destroyed it in many cases. The promise before was that it would belong to the community, but instead it became a large percentage of it. In many cases, they were remodeled in a brazen way, the ornaments were beaten down in a barbaric way, and the frescoes were painted. Take a look at Sándor-Meternich Castle in Bajna, with European standards, we are talking about the Castle of the Devil's Horseman, where needy apartments were placed earlier. Later, there were tees offices here, as well as a machine station. In the Festetics major of the bottom Puszta and the Small Castle there was a plant, a hemp factory and also a thesis. And in one of the most beautiful castles in the country, the Esterházy Castle in Fertőd, there were tractors and grain bags, where Haydn had previously composed. And even these buildings were better off. If we look at the fate of the castles over the last 40 years, we see that this era was an age of natural disaster for the castles. And it's just some data that hasn't been released yet. In Győr-Sopron County, 90 of 227 castles or mansions were demolished during this period. In Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County, 148 of 257 castles had to be demolished. In Fejér County, there were 261 castles and 93 mansions to be demolished. Thus, the historic character was later introduced, the protection of monuments was introduced, which was already protected in vain between 1966 and 1980, but in this period 28 castles were removed from the historical list because their condition had reached such a level that there was nothing left to protect. And it has been said several times that before World War II, we had more than 1,500 castles, and we know about 804 castles. It's been 33 years since then. Even though the state spends on it, what we see is that it takes a worthy form, every year it requires substantial resources, and they cannot be kept economically. What started in 2016, the national castle and castle programme, as has been said, has been spent by the state for 55 billion. If the state had not spent this 55 billion in that period, from 16 to the present, then these castles would have come to the same fate very easily as the castles mentioned above. Thus, the State must have intervened during this period, and it had to be rescued. These castles, they weren't finished, they weren't on a 100% alert, so we need further intervention. At the moment, when they talk about renovated castles, it is important to know that they are not renovated, but they do have some kind of operation, and each of them creates a loss of hundreds of millions in its operation. Only operating costs are in many cases more than triple the total revenue. So, if you look at it as a whole, the revenue of HUF 1.1 billion and the HUF 3.8 billion expenditure are quite self-explanatory. We're talking about an annual number, so if you're thinking long-term and 99 years, you can just multiply it. And if we don't renew the nation's built heritage, there's something more painful lately, isn't there, if we renovate it and then let the slow but steady deterioration process kick in again. If we spend money, time and energy together to save a monument, but we don't make sure it stays in that reborn state... that's why we want to change now to preserve our values for centuries to come. We have changed the Hungarian heritage portfolio so far so that we can preserve the built part of the national heritage more effectively. This is the philosophy of the bill, and the new law aims to put it into practice. Let me respond to some opposition representatives, because I think that many, as I mentioned earlier, may have developed an older version. [[18.00]] They keep mentioning a package of 12 castles that are not included in this bill. [[Kálmán Olga: Sure!]] That's not what we're talking about. We're talking about all of them. It's a matter of principle, it's important to clarify that. It's good to hear that you didn't feel sorry for the money before, Congressman Hiller, but if you look at the numbers, although you might be proud of Esther, if I remember correctly or if I have good information, it was a budget of a few hundred million forints spent on all the castles. We need to know these precisely so that we can see: when we put 55 billion in it now and we still have to have a multiple of these, it is a different dimension than when the provision of monuments started at the time, without, of course, debating the good attitude. I see a big difference between what you've raised and our attitude. You consider buildings to be property, and we are memories of our past that bear a message to the future, and that is where their value is expressed. Heritage protection is expensive everywhere in the world, and you know it, but whatever subsidies we get, whatever resources we have, the state will never have enough money for it in itself. This has been recognized in many places. Today, it is seen in other countries that they have chosen a better path in privatisation, so that families in the Czech Republic and Romania have been given back their castles and set a good example of exploitation; none of this has happened in the past. But we do not only see this in Central Europe: in 2017 there were some 107 monuments in Italy, most of them castles, and before that, lighthouses were transferred to asset management or ownership free of charge by the Italian State. If we look at these, we see that they have been renewed in a great number, they have become masters, and it is worth visiting and seeing them. There is an example throughout the European Union that private owners maintain monuments and provide tourists with access to buildings for their own well-conceived interests. We would also like to include private capital and communities in the preservation of cultural values, not hinder them. We expect the same spirit that created these castles to breathe new life into them. We would like open, visitable public castles, which preserve the heritage of the noble elegance that the construction families have enriched the Hungarian cultural treasure. We believe that the public interest prevails when we make these monuments national spaces that serve the community for generations, regardless of whose property they are owned or managed. The public interest is that the visitor can continue to look at the public collections. According to the bill, if there is a public collection in the property, its visibility must be ensured not simply but continuously. Nor can it be that, for example, an owner is unrealistically raising the price of the ticket. The public access to the building, including a public collection, must be provided for at least 300 days of 365 days of the year, and the park or garden belonging to the property must, once again, be open and open free of charge. It is also in the public interest that sustainability should prevail and that buildings with the involvement of the community or private investors can be renewed where public funds have not been found so that renovated castles are not re-established in an unworthy situation. It can be read in many places that this bill has triggered the thinking of local communities and local governments, who have not yet been able to do anything for the cultural heritage they have. Here in Parliament, too, there were castles owned by the state, and the local community would like to sacrifice, renovate and maintain them. That's how the law gives them an opportunity. Also, when you talk about some gifts, you only have to spend hundreds of millions of forints per year on maintenance, and these strict rules have to be met. Therefore, in order to avoid what happened to several castles during privatisation in the 1990s, they were bought but not used, owners or trustees must meet a number of essential conditions. These warranty rules are in the bill. The proper use and operation of the property in the management or ownership of the property is provided by Magyar Nemzeti Vagyonkezelő Zrt. He's gonna keep a close eye on her. It should also be pointed out that the owner acquires ownership of the property together with the charges. In addition, the real estate has been subject to a disposal and debit ban for 99 years, subject to the State's right to pre-empt. Thus, it is no exaggeration to say that anyone who buys a castle from the state after the entry into force of the new law will not receive property, but whatever noble task it is, but a public task. To see what this means with figures; as Mr. Keresztes indicated, Nádasdy Castle in Nádasdladány operates at an operating cost of HUF 628 million and generates HUF 343 million, while in Bajna the Sándor-Metternich Castle complex operates at an operating cost of HUF 419 million and has HUF 122 million in revenue, or, for example, the Károlyi Castle in Füzérradvány has HUF 877 million in revenue at operating cost of HUF 189 million. Now, these costs must be taken over by the later trustee or owner and the castle must be kept open and operated. If we put it this way, we are talking about 99 years of public service and not 99 percent discount. After a period of 99 years, the State will always have the right of pre-emption on the property to be sold. In the meantime, however, the trustee takes note of the fact that it is carrying out a value-enhancing investment in property in its management solely on its own responsibility and at its expense. The right of ownership shall be returned to the State by the termination or death of the acquirer without his successor, the surrender of the property transferred to him or her, and by serious breach of contract, and the right of trustee shall cease to exist. It should be pointed out that investment aid to promote the preservation of cultural heritage and operating aid may be granted under the detailed rules of the law. However, the detailed amount of aid shall not exceed the difference between the eligible cost and the operating result resulting from the implementation of the investment. This bill will not reduce the national heritage, but increase, preserve its values, but fulfil an important public goal, we trust it, it will also enable private capital and community participation, it will encourage and strictly regulate this. The idea, which has already taken place in the creation of these beautiful treasures, is that the private capital committed to the affairs of the state and the community together will be able to create, preserve and increase more national values than without each other. So I would like to take what has been said to heart. We continue, as indicated, to be open to discussing the details, and I ask that you continue to support the law. Thank you so much for listening.
u2023-07-04-135	Thank you very much, Mr. Balázs Lánszki Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, They will have the opportunity to submit amendments on Thursday at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's agenda. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, applied for a post-meeting speech with the title of our city, Pécs.
u2023-07-04-136	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In my speeches after the agenda, I talk about the fate and situation of my narrower country, Pécs and Baranya. Unfortunately, in today's speech after the last agenda of the session, I cannot give good news about Pécs and Baranya. It is clear that not so long ago Minister Lazarus made a decision to simply cancel, stop, and indeed this decision also affects Pécs and Baranya. [[18.10]] Several decisions have been made that have simply stopped investments that are very important for Pécs and for the county. This is the fate of the internal relief route in Pécs, which would be extremely important in order to reduce urban congestion in this way, and it is clear that the municipality has no resources to carry out this investment. But the government also stopped the construction of the M60 section between Pécs and Szigetvár in uncertain conditions and for an uncertain time. We are talking about the motorway section that connects Pécs to the Croatian border at Barcs and which the Prime Minister always promises from cycle to cycle in person. We know exactly what, Pécs, that this motorway section should have been built two cycles ago, and now that we have received information in the last six months that has been delayed and slowed down the preparation of this investment, this investment has simply been suspended. This is also extremely painful, because the M60 would have provided or ensured the fast-track connection of an extremely backward region with poor economic conditions, an area we are talking about, affecting West Baranya and South Somogy, where unfortunately a lot of people are now moving away because of the difficulties of living, because of low wages. So it would be important here for basic infrastructure development that this development has already begun, so the M60 motorway finally reaches the border. I believe that this is also the individual political failure of the pro-government representatives in the region, that this decision could be made by the government. Similarly, with a decision, the government also stopped the Danube Bridge project in Mo-Hács, which would also be extremely important for the whole region, and otherwise not only for the southern Transdanubian region, but also for the relations between the southern parts of the country, the Danube Bridge in Mohács would be of great importance. Once again, this is a project that has been promised before the elections, in electoral campaigns, and then there is always some kind of topicality that needs to be deleted. We regard these decisions as outrageous, and we expect the pro-government representatives of the region to take advantage of the political influence they may still have and to struggle to make these investments happen. What is the second part of the bad news is the fate of my amendments to the budget for Pécs and Baranya. We know exactly that the government has practically abandoned rural cities in maintaining local public transport, and outside Budapest, it does not give any support to rural cities for this important task at all. It also gives a certain amount to Budapest, but none of the rural cities receive a central budgetary resource to carry out a task that cannot otherwise be expected of the richer cities to be able to solve the funding themselves. Obviously, the withdrawal of this resource will basically be suffered by those living in these cities, and they will see the damage. I have tabled a proposal in order to support Pécs in order to make it easier to maintain public transport; the representatives of the government have rejected this proposal. Unfortunately, Pécs' public transport was surrounded by political scandals and corruption scandals from time to time in various political cycles. At the time of the Balliberal City Administration, the city was under a bus-selling scandal, and in the Fidesz period, such a corruption-suspected bus-procurement scandal, which I reported a few years ago. The city is in a difficult situation, and significant resources are needed to buy a new bus fleet. I also tabled a budget amendment to this, which was rejected by the government side. We know that Baranya is a difficult area, and they have also fallen extremely badly in Baranya, as is the case in rural areas. It is quite clear that substantial economic development cannot be discussed when the approach of small settlements, the scattered small villages, is becoming almost impossible in more and more cases, and public transport is almost impossible for many settlements. That is why I submitted a proposal to renew the lower roads of Baranya County, which was also canceled by the government side. I believe that this is an irresponsible attitude on the part of the government, and it is certainly a disgrace to the pro-government representatives of Baranya County. Thank you very much.
u2023-07-04-137	Thank you, Congressman. János Bencze, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-meeting speech. What is happening here? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-07-04-138	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, We hear a lot of propaganda here. An interesting sentence was said in Brussels, in the European Union: Where is the Hungarians' money? Where are the Hungarians' money, Viktor? I'd ask you the same question. And there was another propaganda saying that there are such things as war speculators. At first I was outraged, I got angry, and then I thought that this is a real concept, that there really are war speculators, and they probably also have the Hungarians' money. Who are the war speculators? War speculators, by definition, who, taking advantage of the war situation in question, at the expense of the citizens, to the detriment of their citizens, to the point of speaking, are seeking sickness, getting rich, taking advantage of them, taking advantage of their misery and taking advantage of this war situation. To do this, we needed to examine where there is a war emergency in Europe. It is in one place, it is in Hungary, so we can find the war speculators who they are with a calm soul. Who Takes People's Money? The easiest thing is to talk to people as MPs, ask them about it, see if they have the money. The first classic category: pensioners. The pensioners with their pension increases are all but war speculators, because their pension increases have basically been taken away by inflation at a level that the pension increase does not actually issue a pair of toilet paper with a tesco every month, and pensioners said that, in addition to inflation, they do not really need this paper at the end of the month. Then they can't be. Who could they be? Maybe it's the young ones. Young people were hit by the C.S.A.P.D., and it was all propaganda. Young people were indebted at such a level that the village CSOK would be delivered to us, that they had to take out loans with the CSOK, that they had to fulfil the terms of the CSOK, that they would receive housing, that they would not sue them back, that they would not fail, so they would not be. Then maybe they're working for a decent wage, maybe they're our war speculators. Well, somehow neither are they, and according to them, inflation has come to an era of labor poverty. So he earns exactly what he somehow pulls out of until the end of the month, and in fact, if I earn as much as my livelihood, it's in compliance with the conditions of slavery. So they can't either, they're slaves of the modern age. Let's keep digging. One thing we've already touched on in the beginning is agriculture, where huge profits have been made. Those grain merchants, those oligarchs near Fidesz who brought in the Ukrainian grain, they made such a huge profit that they could be called war speculators. So we found a group near the government who are war speculators. Then let's look around: who profited from this Ukrainian war, with the regulations written on them, the government closed its eyes? There is a company in Hungary, which can be shown to have exported gigantic quantities of fuel to Ukraine based on Ukrainian border traffic, with people lining up at Hungarian gas stations with power machines and everything. This company is MOL itself. He is also a war speculator who enjoys the benefits of the Hungarian government, Fidesz, so to speak, and seeks sickness on the Hungarian people. What else did MOL do? We just had the waste bill before us. In fact, every scenario written on a war emergency, this waste law has been passed, whether you like it or not, it will pass, and MOL will gain such a gigantic profit that, for example, only 200 forints of net load per kilo of batteries, almost 300 for gross, is actually a 4.5 billion for business. So the company that once pulled people down with the fuel prices will flush the Hungarian population down, too, is a war speculator. And the greatest war speculator is the one who takes the most money from the people, and this is the current Hungarian government, who is now the Fidesz. Why do I say that? Once: tax the interest on deposits, which, if calculated, 28 percent is the income tax charged on deposits, charged on interest, and 13 percent is the socho. People wait for the HUF 10,000 small interest rate that would come, instead they receive HUF 7,200, and the Hungarian state swallows HUF 2,800. Hungarian wages, we have said this many times, are overtaxed. So if someone makes 133 thousand forints net, it is the absolute gross of 226 thousand forints, which is also responsible for the company. In fact, if the person still takes off the 27 percent VAT that goes to the state after every shop purchase, then it is safe to say that 54 percent of the people's salary in Hungary lands in the state register, and only 46 percent because they actually buy goods, which they can actually spend on themselves. So the biggest war speculator in Hungary is the Fidesz government. Thank you.
u2023-07-04-139	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Jakab also spoke after the agenda: life is cheaper without Fidesz! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman. [[18.20]]
u2023-07-04-140	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues! You know what's great? Everywhere I go, in Slovakia, Romania, Austria, food is cheaper than home, but in many places, even gasoline. Tell me how it is, fellow Members. You say that the prices have been set free because of war and penalty inflation and sanctions in Brussels. But is there no such war effect now in Slovakia, Austria, Romania? There's no penalty inflation there? No, fellow Members, there is none; neither is Hungary. And you know it very well. This country is not a sanctioned inflation, it is a loan shark government. You fellow Members are gambling. One by one, that's the case. They don't do it at the plant. They do it everywhere and with everyone. They're collecting interest money at the store, at the gas station, at the bank. If anyone buys a kilo of flour, they pay you 27 percent. If someone gasses the car, they'll pay you 27 percent plus excise duty, which is now brutally raised. If anyone has a little savings in the bank, it'll pay you 28 percent from now on, you'll be able to pay you another tax on your income that you've already paid off. That's a hell of a thing. You want the money, huh? ! The little family, Rachel, what's the other Orbán girl's name? For Saraca, come on. I hear he's getting pretty good at his own, too, I mean, standing on the people's feet. We can't pay you, fellow Members, that's the huge problem. I am reading now that the fortune of the Orbán family is slowly reaching HUF 100 billion, and this does not include Lőrinc Mészáros. Seriously, you think about the genes in this family, how everyone here is so talented, so successful. Daddy, mom, kids, brothers, nice son-in-law that they touch becomes money or disappears. Because we obviously know what this is about. As long as the family steals the day, Daddy steals the money. The estate of 60 Puszta can be built. Meanwhile, Hungarians can enjoy having their first housewarming party at the age of 60, if they can pay their loan and not be thrown on the street by people like Völner. Oh, my God, fellow Members, they would only try to make a living once in a lifetime like the average Hungarian! They would know immediately whether Hungary is going forwards or backwards. But they don't have any teeth for that, do they? Of course not. Prime Minister's Chief Economic Advisor said the other day that, indeed, he would not want to try what it would be like to make a living at 300 thousand forints a month. I believe you, fellow Members, but, you know, the problem is that the average Hungarian cannot choose or choose: either work for hunger or go abroad. At the People's Party, let's say, he's proposing a third way: we'll get you out of here as soon as possible, and then you'll be able to show us how you can make it out of $300,000 a month or $154,000 minimum wage. Prime Minister says it's a very, very nice amount. Well, here we go. Make a new choice, then try it. I'll stay on the side of the people!
u2023-07-04-141	Thank you very much, Congressman Peter James. Ferenc Gelencsér, Head of the Momentum Group, also applied for a post-the-meet speech:. Where is the promise? Where's the money? It's an address. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2023-07-04-142	Mr President, It would be difficult to say that we share the same principles as the State Party in the important issues of our common affairs, but I believe that there are moral minimums that we must respect in our honor and oath. This is the requirement of truth. I do not want to count on the general promises that there will be no taxes or that everyone will have a separate pension account, because we have to admit that a significant part of the Hungarian voters will forgive you these lies over and over again. I'd like to make a more specific promise. In June this year, István Töröcskei and his associates began the judicial phase in which they examined the responsibility for the destruction of Széchenyi Bank. There is no doubt that we have to talk about a series of extremely serious crimes against the state and many other organisations, which are subject to a misconception by the state. This is the Széchenyi Bank, which was first offshore owned and then was then owned by the Töröcskei and 49 percent by the state. There was a depositor of my importance to this institution, and this is the municipality of District I. Széchenyi Bank Zrt. at the beginning of 2013, before the acquisition of the ownership ratio of the Hungarian State. His representative contacted the Municipality of District I to deposit in the bank. A municipal decree was then drawn up to allow the mayor to place temporarily free funds in interest-bearing deposits with Széchenyi Bank. The body of representatives raised investment limits from 30 days and from 100 million HUF to 6 months and 500 million HUF. Up to this limit, the mayor could decide on his own. As deputy mayor of District I, I had the pleasure of reviewing in detail what happened to this HUF 500 million. It was clear that none of the members of the body of representatives noticed that a bank which had not previously had serious banking activities would allow the mayor to deposit without real control. At that time, Széchenyi Bank was still owned by an offshore company registered in the Cayman Islands, which was purchased by a public limited company in the hands of István Töröcskei, while in June 2013, the Ministry of National Economy, representing the Hungarian State, did not decide that Széchenyi Bank, which is committed to increasing the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy, would be a strategic partner of Hungarian rural enterprises with a Hungarian ownership, and to this end the Hungarian State gained 49 percent ownership of Széchenyi Bank Zrt. You know the recipe, don't you? I see that the Hungarian state enjoys 49 percent of loss-making companies, i.e. it is almost useless to obtain a share of ownership. It has not changed this good habit, for example, in the case of Vodafone. On behalf of the municipality, the failed mayor of Gábor Tamás Nagy, who caused the damage, was rewarded by you with a consular position in Lithuania. Congratulations! In November 2014, the reality came up, and the National Bank blocked the payments, and the loss of HUF 500 million became a reality. As usual, Gábor Tamás Nagy began to run to the greats of Fidesz, including on 10 December 2014 he wrote a letter to Minister of National Economy Mihály Varga. It is worth quoting a few sentences from the letter literally:. We considered that if we broke our ties and transferred back the committed amount, we could launch an avalanche that might create a panic situation, we could lose confidence in a bank known as a state-owned bank, and we could not accept the consequences of this, said Tamás Nagy. Gábor Tamás Nagy, then mayor of Fidesz chose his party over his district. At this point came the promise of János Lázár and the Hungarian Government, which, on the last day of December 2014, promised in the form of a decree to the injured party that 49 percent of the deposit would be repaid. It's been nearly nine years since they kept their promise? Because the promise is a good word, and the citizens of the first district expect back the 500 million forints that have been stolen from them, which they have been promised to return at ministerial level. Thank you.
u2023-07-04-143	Thank you very much, Mr. Ferenc Gelencsér. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 10:30 on Friday. I wish you a restful good night. Meeting day's closed.
