u2023-05-30-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 23rd day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that Agnes Vadai and András Aradski will be attending the meeting to help me. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, We will continue our work with speeches before the agenda. To speak before the agenda, Mrs Bernadett Bakos, the LMP Group, spoke with a title on our current affairs. You have the floor.
u2023-05-30-1	Thank you. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In recent days, the rumor has spread as wildfire that only 28 people came first to be chemistry teachers. This shows the serious collapse behind the scenes; in a few years we will be able to keep you from simply being taught. This is no longer a scare, it is not a prediction, it is a fact; without quality education, there is no competitive country, just because of what is happening now: this is not a catch-up, but a dramatic break, pouring the status of the second-rate country into concrete. To solve this problem, it is worth understanding how we have come to this. It is not that the world has changed, and today's youth is no longer attracted to the teaching career. Hungarian young people continue to make rational decisions: this means that they want training that guarantees their livelihood. However, your government has worked every day for the past 13 years so that the teacher's career should not be like this, or even, preferably, the status of civil servant, because we are talking about teachers now, but we could even talk about social or healthcare workers. Today, a beginner educator receives 200,000 forints, when for double this, anyone can go to a supermarket to charge goods; and that does not mean that the payment of the uploader is a problem. But why does a teacher get so much? Not because Hungary is a poor country, and not because there is simply not enough tax revenue in the budget. They earn this much because the government has decided; they earn this much because it is an extremist neoliberal government, for whom the interests of capital have always been superior to those of its own employees, or in general, to those of Hungarian people. In Hungary there is no money to raise the wages of teachers because the government's policy can be summarised in a single sentence: the better the capital feels here, the better it will be in Hungary. And that's why, according to the needs of large companies, the labor code was rewritten, which now doesn't protect the workers, but the large companies. That is why both the OSH and nature protection institutions have been abolished, which is now not preventing infringements, but assisting them. And that is why the government has agreed to a downward tax competition, resulting in the fact that these large companies today have to pay the least tax from the OECD States. But what we can see is that the capital wasn't enough. Right now, in the framework of battery conversion, we see that we still have to pay hundreds of billions to bring in their polluting plants, make our living environment unlivable. And that's why we've been saying that over the past 13 years, we've had to reduce the quality of public services year after year. That is why there is no money for teachers' salaries: because the government finances large companies from paid taxes. Only one news from the last few days: Mercedes gained a profit of HUF 40 billion in Hungary, from which virtually no tax will have to be paid. In the meantime, only last year he received 15 billion forints of state aid, which is precisely the result of which he was able to double his profits. Audi has now made more than HUF 2,000 billion in profits out of the country. The CATL receives nearly HUF 400 billion of state funding, while we get the fact that the children of our generation will no longer be taught chemistry or physics. The neoliberal policy of Fidesz has failed. When there is no teacher in a country, but in every city there is pollution plants growing out of the earth, it is not a great power, it is called a colony, a colony of global capital. It is also clear that the government will never admit that it has been on the wrong path for the last ten years. Even though the teachers, the doctors, the social workers, the social system is collapsing, despite the fact that there will be no rescue or public transport, this is the trap of their mistake. Only Hungarians can lead the country out of a dead end. The first step of this is to say that we do not want Hungary to become a battery company; we do not want our resources to be used in the interests of big capital; and we finally say that profit can never prevent us. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the LMP and Dialogue benches.]]
u2023-05-30-2	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2023-05-30-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It has touched on a number of topics, and I would first like to respond to the issue of education. Despite all their statements, we are interested in giving the teachers appreciation and the Hungarian students competitive knowledge. We want to achieve this in a number of ways, one of which is wage increases. In fact, the debate on wage increases is much smaller than you would think, because I could also say that there is full agreement that these wages should be increased. This commitment is also shown by the fact that the first career model for teachers was launched, even after the start of right-wing governance; it was 50 percent. There was also a raise in January this year, but if you say that it is not enough, then I agree with that, further wage increases are needed. Therefore, it doesn't matter when EU funds arrive. You can smile at this, but the fact remains that if these funds arrive, the raise track looks like an additional 25% increase in 2024 may be possible, since this year's raise will be higher, and in 2025 a 29 percent increase may occur, which means that by 2025, which is already within a reasonable time, the average teachers' wages could reach HUF 770 thousand. It's not exactly the same level as it was a few years ago or even now. That is what we want to achieve, and in fact there is much more agreement in this than you would think. On the other hand, if you look at the development directions, one of the largest institutional and school development programmes has been implemented in Hungary in recent years. We didn't get to the end of the work here either, but we started on a road we wanted to continue. The basic curriculum has also been renewed, and in the meantime, the possibility of how digital tools can be effectively put at the service of quality education should be constantly examined. Here, too, the acquisition of assets is ongoing, and if I can only say one thing, for example, the tablets used in the census are mostly given to educational institutions. There is also a dialogue on the new career law. This includes, among other things, an increase in the number of days off. I think we can agree on that, too. This proposal would allow those who undertake an additional task to receive additional benefits; this is also something I think there is agreement on. Not least, this bill would also create a legal framework for further wage increases. You've been a Member for a few years, but I can't help but notice that when your alliance governed earlier, the debate was not about how to increase wages, but about reducing wages; they didn't expand the teaching career, they put tens of thousands on the street. It's not the same thing. And they didn't renovate the schools, they canceled the education, you know, Congresswoman, how many places? Nearly 400 places, 381 places, that's a big difference! With regard to investment: in the matter of battery companies, I would just like to say that this was already mentioned, where car manufacturing capacities will be in Europe now, because once the decision has been made in Brussels that after 2035 only e-vehicles can be placed on the market, it means that the whole car production will be based on e-mobility and the production of electric vehicles. [[11.10]] And that is where the question arises, that Hungary can participate in this, that we will have the production capacities or even the larger ones that have been built in recent years. The livelihoods of hundreds of thousands of Hungarians are at stake, and you, when we talk about it, do not answer where these Hungarian people should work afterwards. By the way, as far as your investment policy is concerned in general, the numbers speak for themselves. In this difficult period, we have managed to achieve a record of investment in Hungary, and all of this through the fact that unemployment has been cut from 12% to less than 4 percent from the start of governance, and it will not go without an investment policy. So when you are attacking investment policy, you are also attacking this job-creating policy. If I can make two more proposals in this case, or if I have time left: if you really are interested in competitive jobs in Hungary or in educators' wage increases, then do not prevent us from receiving EU funds. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-30-4	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, To speak before the agenda, Mr Bence Tordai, Dialogue Group: on current affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-05-30-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, I will talk about the victims of the enforcement mafia, the Fidesz enforcement mafia, not only today, because this afternoon at 5:00 p.m. we are holding a protest in front of the Metropolitan Tribunal for the victims of the enforcement mafia for justice, but also because it is one of the most devastating injustices in the regime that Viktor Orbán and his accomplices have built in the last 13 years. I mean, this is a matter of political and personal profit, and the victims of this mob are the victims of the worst in trouble. [[Sic!]] : with the cost of destroying troubled debtors, huge profits are made and their political network is built by the Fidesz. I mean, what's the executor's mafia all about? The implementation of these rather inhumane procedures has been outsourced to private companies whose managers, beneficiaries and executives are selected on a political basis. Now there are court statements from former or current employees of the Ministry of Justice that it is Fidesz politicians who manage executive appointments. We know very well that György Schadl was not only in contact with Völner, but he was a man of Antal Rogán, and he also had access to a good secretary. It is quite obvious that this policy has become a prey, as in the early 2010s the traff mafia, now the executive mafia cases have come to light, and the Fidesz Members consider their constituencies to be their own property, and the greasy snacks there are distributed to their friends, not only the tramps, but the executive positions, and who knows what else. The result of this is that there is legislation on the other side that is least in the interests of debtors, but not even those seeking implementation, but only in the interests of executives, and that is what we have to fight for to change, that is what is a burning problem for debtors and even those seeking implementation, but also for the whole Hungarian rule of law, a wound on the body of the Hungarian rule of law that is starting to gangrene. Tens and hundreds of thousands of lots have been destroyed by irregular or executors and enforcements that have taken advantage of the legislation in force in recent years, while searching for pus. The ten largest executive companies are pocketing a four billion-dollar profit on an annual basis, and that's obviously what they're sharing with their Fidesz owners. The law on enforcement bleeds from a thousand wounds, which is why the Dialogues-Greens filed a petition from the Constitutional Court last autumn in which we attacked parts of it. This is why András Jámbor and Sándor Berki are trying to set up a case-by-case committee to investigate the cases that have taken place so far at the expense of debtors, which have cost thousands of lives and human fates. That's why we're protesting tonight in front of the Metropolitan Tribunal on Markó Street, because we don't want to let the victims simply go unprotected and destroy their fate with political aid. It is not a few people, there are 900 thousand enforcement cases currently under way, and along with family members, there are millions of stakeholders involved in how inhumane you are, how opaque and how legislative and enforcement practices have been developed that go against the rule of law and fundamental fairness. The Dialogue-Greens are attempting to remedy one of the most devastating social injustices, when we are now trying to show what a fair, transparent, humane enforcement law would be; how to eliminate this fidesz, luxurious, profit-making mafia; how to take back the system of implementation in public hands; how to build a transparent electronic system that can be sought, followed by debtors; how to compensate for all those who have been destroyed in recent years. We know that we can't really count on you, but we can count on the victims, the Hungarian people of solidarity, anyone who gives an opinion on this matter driven by basic human goodwill; we are waiting for them before the Metropolitan Tribunal at 5:00 p.m. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition ranks.]]
u2023-05-30-6	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Répássy Róbert wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2023-05-30-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, As I understand it, you wish to protest against the court. [[Bence of Turdai: Before!]] [[Bence of Turdai: Before!]] I find this inappropriate (Bence of Turdai: Before!) As a representative of the Ministry of Justice, I condemn you for wanting to declare me against the court, against judicial convictions. The Metropolitan Court must have delivered its judgments in accordance with the legal procedures applicable to it. There is an appeal against the judgment of the Metropolitan Tribunal and of all courts. And if you have introduced your speech with this, let us make it clear that judicial enforcement is about the execution of private debts, since the State claims are settled by the NAV, the tax administration and private debts are on the judicial path. The basis for judicial enforcement is an enforceable instrument, namely either a final judgment of the court or an obligation entered into in an authentic instrument, i.e. in all cases where the judicial executioner acts, either on the basis of a judgment or on the basis of a notary deed. This is very important to clarify what is the starting point for a judicial execution at all. Of course, it is the judicial executives' responsibility that this judgment, either this authentic instrument or the debt contained in this authentic instrument, be executed legally, but they did not make those decisions. So it is not the bailiff who should be blamed for being indebted, but for the court that made those judgments, or, as I said, the debtor himself took the plea in authentic form. [[11.20]] Honourable Congressman, I think it is politically irresponsible to speak out against implementation as part of the judiciary; it is irresponsible, because there is no justice without implementation. Court enforcement closes the court proceedings. It is necessary to enforce a court in the event of voluntary default by debtors. And by the time we get to the point where the court enforcement force is applied at all, there are still a number of remedies, enforcement objections or enforcement proceedings in the hands of the debtor, these options are at the disposal of the debtor, and if all remedies have failed, judicial enforcement will only take place. It is very political irresponsible to say that when the organisation of judicial enforcement changes, the debtor does not have to pay. Please make it very clear that the debt must be paid even if it will be recovered by the NAV, if it will be recovered by an independent judicial enforcer or any enforcement body. Debt based on a court judgment, the execution of a court judgment is compulsory. Interestingly, in other cases, for example, when the opposition opposes the non-execution of a judgment, they are not so acceptable to judicial enforcement. You yourself are used to seeking and executing judgments, and that is right, because, as I said, this is necessary in order for judicial enforcement to take place. As regards the supervision of the organisation of judicial enforcement: since 1 October 2021, according to the Parliament's decision, the Act of Enforcement is 230. The Supervisory Authority for Regulatory Activities shall supervise the implementing body pursuant to Article 5 of this Regulation. This means that the Supervisory Authority for Regulatory Activities is responsible for handling the cases of complainants to them in disciplinary cases against executives if this objection is not part of a judicial procedure. The implementing body shall also be supervised, such as the General Assembly of the Executive Faculty, by the authority supervising the implementing body. For example, the President of the Authority himself took part in their last renewal and spoke, and the Authority checks the legal operation of the enforcement body, and the same authority controls the appointments of executioners themselves, and the same authority decides on these issues. Since 1 October 2021, this legislation has been in force, and to take account of it on the government is, to say the least, ignorance. You do not know the laws that we have passed here in Parliament. I reject every single claim you make. As I said, the Supervisory Authority for Regulatory Activities oversees executives. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-30-8	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr László Toroczkai, Head of the Group, Mi Hazank Group, asked for a pre-meeting address with the title of "current public affairs." You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2023-05-30-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Now, I will explain to the Members present here in Parliament, why it is clear that the government, i.e. Fidesz, as the Balliberal parties did before 2010, control this executive mob manually, joined with notaries, officials and, of course, politicians who control this whole thing. Even in 2015, when György Schadl was appointed, it was only, if I remember correctly, possible to appoint him with one vote, and it was clear then that this was the supreme will. The executives say that very nicely, because some people didn't like it at the time. He is now behind bars, quite rightly, hopefully for many years in prison, György Schadl, one of the leaders of this mob network. Bence Tordai didn't mention the subject of the new president of the Hungarian Faculty of Executives of the Court. That Dr. Beáta Lupkovics, who was appointed executor in the summer of 2022. He wasn't an executor before, he used to work for Social Services, then he was a notary for the Fidesz Mayor of Miskolc. And in the summer of 2022, why did Beáta Lupkovics suddenly think that he wanted to be an enforcer? Then, a year later, did he have the necessary professional experience? He was elected president of the Executive Faculty to replace György Schadl. This raises two very serious problems. One is whether his appointment was legitimate, because, in our view, new executioners were illegally appointed, while György Schadl was already in custody. We believe that before Vice President Tamás Lukács, who replaced him, the oath was already illegal, so I am not predicting a long professional journey to Beáta Lupkovics at the head of the Executive Faculty. The other very serious problem raised by his appointment to become an executor is that he was not intended to be executed in the first place to be replaced by György Schadl, because it is obvious that György Schadl had serious political ties and connected with the Fidesz. At the time that Beáta Lupkovics was appointed as not only a notary for the mayor of Fidesz, but as far as I know, she was a classmate of the Minister of Justice at the Faculty of Law of the University of Miskolc, it was also obvious that she would be appointed president, because a letter that we first published with the help of our expert Dr. Zsuzsa Fister was leaked. Later they denied that this letter was even real, but then it turned out that, yes, this letter was real, because they chose the five persons from point to point the head of the Executive Faculty, who were included in this letter, and this letter made it clear that it was a government will, that this Presidency should be appointed at a higher pressure. It is simply incomprehensible to me, while it is obvious that this executive mafia, this system has been connected to politics for a thousand years, but I will go on, 30 years ago, this is how the previous governments have built it since the 1990s, why the government does not understand and why our submitted initiatives are being swept away from turning into a nonprofit system, for example. We will now see how you relate to our proposal, which I have also submitted, which is about making sure that not not not only notaries can issue documents on assembly lines, without any substantive examination, on which implementations can start, but that the court will re-examine that executives or anyone involved in this process will at all comply with the law and, let us say, do not want to carry out overdue debts. So I do not understand that the government that sees this case burned down, as I have repeatedly said, and the whole country is dealing with this mafia network instead of trying to restore faith in public confidence, is now choosing a Presidency obviously linked to the government that has already been leaked out of a previous letter by the fact of its election, or by the fact of its higher pressure and will. After that, it is very difficult to say that this system is not manually controlled, and Fidesz does not benefit the same way as the Balliberal parties did before by ruining the lives of hundreds of thousands of Hungarians, by allowing the enforcement system to operate in a profit-oriented way, so that these executives can bring home 600 million forints. After that, instead of restoring public confidence, the government now sends a clear message to Hungarians that it does not want to change this system, it wants to continue to benefit from this system, which drove Hungarians to suicide and drove hundreds of thousands of Hungarians away from Hungary. And I beg you, please, do not bullshit me, but finally eliminate this mafia network. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-05-30-10	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Répássy Róbert wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2023-05-30-11	Thank you for the floor. You have indeed joined Bence Tordai's sentences, Mr. Fraternity Leader, but this does not change the fact that this is a conspiracy theory you have just presented. It's nothing else, it's a conspiracy theory. As I referred to earlier, no one is being prosecuted because he was accidentally targeted by the bailiffs. No! Everyone is subject to judicial enforcement because they have voluntarily failed to comply with the final judicial judgment or their obligation in the authentic instrument. So this is the starting point of how a person comes into the hands of the bailiffs, as you said. It will be arranged that there is an enforceable document, and therefore the question of the enforcement body is independent. Again, on the issue of the enforcement body, I can say that it is irresponsible to say that, in particular, it is irresponsible for debtors to say that, if the enforcement body becomes different, the debt will not have to be paid. But you have to pay the debt. It must also be paid if the implementation becomes non-profit, and it must be paid even if it is carried out by profit-making companies. That's what tax enforcement is, by the way. NAV implementation is a non-profit implementation. Well, ask someone if tax enforcement is more friendly than court execution. I don't think there's any difference between them, because they're both collecting final, valid debts. [[11.30]] Honourable Congressman, As regards the renewal of the implementing organisation, the executive faculty, I would first like to say that basically that the executive faculty has elected a new presidency, it has been demanded by everyone here in this Parliament for a year, this new Presidency. I remember that the government, the Ministry of Justice, had been called to account for why it had stopped interfering, why it hadn't been removed from the executor's office in criminal proceedings. The Presidency has resigned, the executives have carried out a renewal. By 160 votes out of 170, the current officials were elected by 160 votes. You don't really think that 160 executives, one by one, or one by one, the Attorney General told you how to vote? It's a childish, old story. So whoever gave you this letter, it's clear that it was a fake letter, someone who knew who the candidates were, got the government involved in this whole thing. Dear House, It is quite clear that the executives elected their own presidency and indeed elected an executive who was recently appointed to be executive. What's wrong with that? At least it does not relate to the previous company for which the whole proceeding was initiated. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] So this enforcer really has no connection to the previous people in criminal proceedings. On the one hand. On the other hand, if the new Presidency has already been elected, I think we should wish them good work on behalf of all of us, asking them to clean up the executive organization and indeed discipline, empathy and, as the President of the Supervisory Authority for Regulatory Activities has said, zero tolerance should be claimed on executives. I think it's for all of us. Honourable Congressman, I ask you, on the one hand, not to give the impression that if the organisation of the implementation changes, the debtors will not have to pay the debt; the one who has the debt, unfortunately, cannot do anything else. By the way, it is able to appeal, otherwise it can request payment of instalments, a number of facilitations, such as the debt settlement procedure introduced by the government, so it can also use the private bankruptcy procedure, but this does not mean that the debt does not have to be paid. And the new executive officers, we trust that, as they say, the new leeper is well-sweeped, we hope that they will work this way, and believe that it has nothing to do with the Attorney General, who had this executive 20 years ago, has nothing to do with who was elected president of the executives. If that's what the bailiffs decided, then obviously they had an explanation. Dear House, I'm asking you or I'm telling you not to attack court execution. There is a need for judicial enforcement itself, without judicial enforcement there is no rule of law, no justice. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes.]] Of course, an enforcer who acts illegally must be held liable in disciplinary or criminal proceedings, but enforcement itself is necessary, we cannot think of anything else; for centuries or even thousands of years, judicial enforcement is what forces non-paying debtors to settle their debts. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-30-12	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik Group has applied for a pre-meeting speech. When will the Hungarian employee be the first? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-05-30-13	Mr President, Dear House, There are some of us in the country who have questions about how four hundred Filipino migrant workers can be found in the area of my friend Ander Balázs, in a settlement of four thousand people, in Somogyország, in a part of the country where there are still very large numbers of inactive people of working age in the sack villages. We do not consider the natural order and course of the world that tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of workers are imported from the third world, and that Hungarians are forced to leave Hungary because of higher pay and poor working conditions and low wage levels. Meanwhile, in Vietnam, Mongolia, the Philippines and Indonesia, a very large number of laborers appeared, and if you can believe government predictions, I agree that in the long run, 500,000 laborers may be absent, but if we believe the government and continue to take the line of action that is now drawn out of its actions, then typically and in order to increase the number of guest workers from abroad, he wants to replace the missing workers. Not only me, but let's say, a minister for economic development and an MNB leader said that it would be better to reach out to the activity rate, to see how people of working age, but also inactive, can be helped with free re-training, in other ways. But in the meantime, there are subsidies from tax forints that are typically granted to multi-company companies, which employ a very large number of migrant workers, i.e. higher than their labour market rate. The Jobbik-Conservatives demand is clear: from Hungarian taxpayers' forints we only support the maintenance and creation of jobs where Hungarian people and Hungarian families can otherwise provide their children and manage their daily expenses, so Hungarian taxpayers do not finance the workplace of migrant workers! I think that's a very clear expectation. This is exactly what our Hungarian quota proposal is about, the point is not to exclude, not to clean anyone out of the market, but only the company that undertakes to employ at least 90 percent of Hungarian workers in the EEA, i.e. typically Hungarian workers, can receive non-refundable funding from the Hungarian taxpayers' money. The question is clear, therefore, that the government has opened up to this intention and would open up this hundreds of billions of dollars for grants to Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, since most of the jobs are maintained by them and they carry the national economy on their backs. Obviously, our proposal here is also that employers and employers should think about hiring any migrant worker only if it proves not only that they have not found a Hungarian, but also proves that none of their existing work force could be retrained to the job. This is yet another shield for Hungarian workers against the amazing process that seems to emerge. Thirdly, we would like to find out from the government that it has opened up our intention to launch free re-training programmes for Hungarian job seekers, at the expense of the additional income of inflation. So let's see who wants to hire a guest worker, see what the jobs are, see if there are hundreds of thousands of inactive Hungarians who can be transferred to the job for free; there is already one less guest workers to call from the other side of the world. Our triple shield is not perfect, but it could guarantee a very strong defence system for all Hungarian workers. I say that it is not perfect, because in the long term, only a wage Union concept, a concept that serves normal wages, can complete the protection so that no one is forced to emigrate from this country, so that anyone who wants can thrive in his homeland, so that the number between the children that they desire and the children that are born can be reduced, so that all the children that they desire can be born if the parents' intention points to this. Overall, this is nothing more than a fair wage level, so that we are at least closer to the European average, but this is not necessarily the case with a crowd of migrant workers who can typically break down Hungarian wages and force worse working conditions for Hungarian workers still here. All in all, besides our three shields, we are also interested in the concept of wage compensation at least in the head of the government, because we have not seen much of this in the field of action. Obviously, they will say that nominal wages have increased here, as in all the neighbouring countries and throughout Europe, but we also see that if we look at the increase in wage levels in the neighbouring countries, we have failed to get closer, we have also moved away from certain countries, and this is the true sequence, because our goal can only be one: to guarantee prosperity in the homeland for all Hungarian citizens, but this requires normal wages and a normal vision within the three shields that protect workers. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2023-05-30-14	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr János Fónagy wishes to respond. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2023-05-30-15	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Let's first look at what we agree on, I hope. I suppose you do not dispute that after 2010, there was a very significant and noticeable turn of employment policy, since before 2010 and 2010 we took over the area with unemployment above 13 per cent, today unemployment is 3.7 to 3.8 per cent, so it is definitely less than 4 per cent, which, according to international standards, is considered to be virtually full employment. Today, in 2023, we are there and, I imagine, you do not dispute that economic development is, in addition to and despite the Covid, the war and all of this, an era of economic development with varying intensity, but with a steady trend, which has fundamentally changed this employment situation. [[11.40]] Today, and in your speech before the agenda, you have highlighted the threat of unemployment, rather than the problem of labour shortages, the conditions for a developing economy, the conditions for labour and living work. Undoubtedly, this is also a task, a matter of urgency, but it is a much better task for society as a whole than the horror of unemployment. The question is, and this has been raised several times in the last few days and weeks here in Parliament, that this employment claim, which you too, if I remember correctly, was also indicated in your comment by us in approximately 500 thousand persons until 2030, is a projected number, but I believe in a magnitude that is acceptable to both of us, from what we ensure. The first and no debate between us is that the Hungarian labour force in Hungary must, first and foremost, provide employment. The question is how much the number of people currently available in the country is able to meet this demand. According to various surveys, there is a potential reserve of labour in the three regions of the country, North-East Hungary, some of which is between the Danube-Tisza and South-Hungary, which, as you rightly say, can be solved by training, re-training, I must say, by basic training, not only by vocational training, but also by initial training, by providing intellectual conditions. There are, of course, other sources, including the wider involvement of women and women, the possibility of retirement after 40 years provides a number of women's workers for this purpose, and the possibility of involving older people in the context of a welcome extension of age. At the same time, I would like to emphasise, and I ask that we do not create a mood in this which, to say the least, detracts or alters this otherwise welcome trend. It's about the proportions. You're talking about hundreds of thousands of people in guest workers. Today, with 4.7 million employees in Hungary, this last number is perhaps 82-83,000 migrant workers. One. Let us not forget and ask, at least here in the Hungarian Parliament, a positive element is that a significant part of this eighty-a-some thousand migrant workers from the surrounding countries, mostly war, I permit, some of whom are Hungarian workers who are coming to Hungary due to economic, but mostly war pressure. I don't want to give you a number, there's no exact record of it, but it's definitely a significant number. Please take this into account when considering the subject. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-30-16	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Imre Komjáthi, MSZP Group, addressed to the pre-meeting address on the current issues. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-05-30-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me begin by saying, perhaps surprising to many, that Lőrinc Ripper is not a gas mechanic. True, it used to be, and I'm sure you could replace a strang from the basement to the attic today, but it's been a long time since you've been a gas mechanic, but a wealthy pro-government oligarch. He is a rich man whose wealth has increased by HUF 180 billion in a single year of war and crises, i.e. by 38 percent. It is not a professional we call to replace a convector, and this is a problem, not just because of what he did instead, but because Hungarian professionals are losing weight. I don't know, you knew, but all the Hungarian gas mechanics could immediately place themselves in one of the western states of Europe for multiples of their domestic salary. And did you know that most of them don't start emigration not just because they have nothing better to do, but because they're going to retire in a few years? And no one knows what we're gonna do afterwards. Anyone trying to replace a boiler or a hatch, find a cover or an electrician today is also in trouble. He's scheduled for a long time, and he's still working at home and in this profession. Don't get me wrong, I'm not asking the government why there aren't three times as many professionals in the gold pages or the local smart guy, but what you've been doing with vocational training for the past 13 years. How can it be that Hungarian skilled workers build and maintain the wealthier countries of Europe, and the workshops close at home? A few weeks ago, Viktor Orbán painted a very rosy picture of his system of vocational training at the Szakma Star Festival. The reality is much darker: the age limit for compulsory education has been reduced to 16 years, instead of full professional knowledge in dual training, child labour is often carried out in practical places, and foreign capital is still lured to Hungary by the fact that there is no need to pay the skilled worker here. You want to make vulnerable footmen instead of training versatile professionals. It is no wonder that this is attractive to a few people, and however hard they try, they cannot shift masses from high school education to vocational training, although they may believe me with my record, I say on behalf of the Socialist Party that one of the most important and urgent tasks is to get successful Hungarian vocational training to work in Hungary again, something that does not try to survive with dribbling and neglecting between ministries. We in the MSZP support vocational training in which the student's interest does not disappear behind short-term capitalist customer demands. There is a need for uniform and controlled conditions in external practice and a theoretical education that offers both professional training and higher education progress in school. We need the active participation of relevant sectoral trade unions in the definition of a framework for education and the involvement of high school students in the world of employee representation, including labour law education. We need a strategy for keeping fresh graduates at home, planning careers. When I talk about this subject, from time to time swinging, yawning is the answer from politicians and their advisors. And then the same people are asking me questions, asking me if I know someone who's gonna seal their house. I know, six months from now and Switzerland. It's a very common, meat-cutting matter. And if you're asking me what to do with Squire Butcher, I have a suggestion for this: luxuriant. In a country where inflation is around 25 percent, forints are in ruins, workers are in poverty, there we expect the richest man in the country not to make water heaters, but to pay off his immeasurable luxury. Yes, let the rich pay, let the Garanchi, Tiborcz, Rogans, and the whole rich fidesz siserhad pay, to be precise: give back some of our money, the taxpayers' money, and spend it on the gas mechanics of the future. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2023-05-30-18	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Eszter Vitalyos wishes to respond.
u2023-05-30-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I wish we could have caught those big words in the act when you were ruling. At the time, the training structure has greatly increased the drop-out in vocational training. The national list of professional qualifications recognised by the State was difficult to see, there were a lot of overlaps, they did things that were highly objectionable in the field of vocational training, the regulations were fragmented, they were difficult to find transparent, difficult to handle, the training documents could be discovered, they were complicated and professional exams were difficult to implement. [[11.50]] Neither training schools nor pupils were interested in teaching or learning vocational qualifications that meet the needs of the local labour market. That is what we changed when we began to govern. A very serious vocational training reform has been launched, which also follows a completely different path; you can say at the time that the training supply was based on habits, that there was no demand-driven training structure. We have also changed this in the reform of the national vocational training system. We consider the creation of a knowledge-based economy, the improvement of Hungary's competitiveness as a priority, and we think that one of the basic conditions for sustainable economic growth is a skilled workforce that can adapt to social change and labour market challenges. As I said, in 2020 we started and started to adapt the comprehensive vocational training system along these lines. Contrary to the time since the introduction, Mr President, it is clear that the changes are positive for all stakeholders in the vocational training field. Companies say that, students, educators, parents can all report positive benefits. The vocational training system has become simplified, transparent and interoperable. In the new vocational training system, we provide the first two professions free of charge and also the first vocational training for adults. As regards wage increases, he also tried to argue why vocational training in the labour market is not attractive, in the summer of 2020, we provided a significant, on average 30% wage increase for 32 thousand professionals working in state-owned vocational training institutions. In vocational education and training, a differentiated increase in the wages of trainers in vocational education and training will also be achieved in line with public education wage increases from 2023. From January onwards, the wages of instructors working in vocational training will increase by 10 percent and then by an average of 5 percent from May onwards. Overall, this represents another 15 percent wage development in the area of education, which, we believe, provides the basis for further professional activity. Scholarships and start-up allowances. In the school year 2020-21, we spent nearly HUF 8 billion on new student benefits. In the year 2021-22, more than 112 thousand students received scholarships in the amount of nearly HUF 14.5 billion. Thanks to the running-up system, some 140,000 students received scholarships in the 2022-23 academic year. We have established the Apáczai Scholarship Programme, which will be launched every year from 2022, and may provide monthly support between HUF 16 thousand and HUF 34 thousand per month depending on the study result. I think that it is right to say to those who are employed in the field of vocational training and those who are there that there is a need for a continuous renewal of the institutional network, that we need to react very quickly to what the labour market expects. I believe that vocational training is currently in this direction, as shown by the amendment of the VET law adopted last week. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-30-20	I thank the Secretary of State for her reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Dávid Bedő, Deputy Head of the Momentum Group, applied for a pre-meeting address on our current affairs. You have the floor.
u2023-05-30-21	Thank you very much. Today you have submitted budget 2024. Just in time, it's barely a few months from the year, there's a clear economic environment, it's predictable next year and its budget figures. I know you don't always understand the irony. [[Csaba Dömötör: Oh! An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] So let me make it clear that this is what it was. What you guys have been doing for years on budget planning is a joke. It's a frivolous job, which is only good for deceiving laymen with their numbers. Let's name things. This budget, just like the previous one, is a fake budget: over-optimistic estimates, unrespectable figures, an opaque process. They play the same thing as in 2023: they submit it in the first half of the year, then they realize that what they have invented is unsustainable, then comes the redesign and the amendment by regulation. Budget 2023 has been amended more than 90 times. There was a 4% increase this year, which had to be adjusted to 1.5 percent. There is a 15 percent inflation rate in the 2023 budget, while inflation is still above 24 percent in the first four months. We reached 80 percent of this year's budget deficit target in April. Of course, these blunders last year don't stop themselves from being stoned again this year. Again, a 4% increase is expected, despite the fact that more significant international organisations expect much lower growth. Six percent inflation is expected for 2024, but given their previous crisis and inflation management, it will be a miracle that inflation will be one-digit next year. It's hard to take seriously a government whose most important design document is so fake. It is clear to everyone that they are not great at budget planning and that crisis management is not their strong suit. But we can't accuse you of not being able to communicate your lies effectively. In presenting the 2024 budget, they did not postpone the opportunity to say that inflation in Hungary is not their fault. The European Union is faulty, the Brussels sanctions policy is wrong, the war is wrong, everyone is wrong, only the Hungarian government is not. On the other hand, those who see reality know that the record-high price increase in Hungary is not external, but mainly due to internal reasons: the upswing of the demand for pre-election campaigning, the price caps that lead to supply disruptions, the forint-weakening monetary policy, and the tax increases that are intended to resolve them without any thought. Europe's champion inflation affects the entire Hungarian society and economy, in which the responsibility of the Orbán government is paramount. The lack of real budget planning also hurts because the country is hit by serious problems such as the educational crisis. In a normal country, annual budget planning should be about financing and correcting areas in the worst crisis. About not soaking schools all over the country at least next year, about making money for chalk and sponges at least next year, about giving teachers a decent wage at least next year [[Bence Rétvári: You block him!]] Most of all, it is about not leaving the country for an increasing proportion of Hungarian students. If they let Hungarian education be lost, if an increasing proportion of studenthood is persecuted abroad, if an increasing proportion of teachers are driven out of their profession, then we will lose a whole generation. These are what a state's budget is really about, not about numbers written on paper, but about lives, fates, the future of the nation. That is why it would have been a good thing if instead of tearing up the Vengeance Act and the students, a budget was drawn up to prevent the collapse of education. I mean, we all know there's money for teachers, there's money for renovating schools if they really wanted to. Unfortunately, it seems to me that you are increasingly interested in breaking up education and deliberately driving away students abroad. The students and teachers won't let that happen, and neither will we. It is therefore clear what is needed instead of a fake budget and a government job: predictability, planning, transparency in education and so on in the budget in general. Thank you.
u2023-05-30-22	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2023-05-30-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, allow me to make a comment: I don't know why you feel the urge to re-create the once-old SZDSZ sloppy style here in the National Assembly and your soul on it. Nevertheless, I think it is important to talk about next year's budget, what is the purpose of this budget. It's a defense budget, because we're living in extraordinary times, a war situation. We are not warring parties to this war, although there are those in Hungary who want to do so. [[12.00]] In a situation like this, it doesn't matter where we put the weights. The three main priorities are the protection of jobs, the protection of overhead and defence. Protecting jobs is important because, in this new economic situation, we cannot take for granted the fact that we are able to protect jobs that have been created throughout Europe. We want to protect that we have reduced the unemployment rate from 12 percent to less than 4 percent. The protection of the overhead is important because while you are constantly attacking price restrictions, you have referred to this earlier, and we consider it important to have price restrictions, including in the field of energy. This is a monthly support of HUF 181 thousand for every Hungarian family on average. And the only thing about defence is that if you, your allies, had continued to govern after 2010, we wouldn't have been able to send a weapon now, we wouldn't want to, but we wouldn't have anything to send, they've been so obsessed with the defense. That is why we need to strengthen defence, while we want peace, we need to be able to defend ourselves. And I think it is a big word that economic growth is still being achieved in Hungary, and we do not have to face the horror of the recession. On the issue of education, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the government is counting 3334 billion on education issues in the budget, which is 629 billion higher than 2023. So we're going to spend not less than what you're saying, but more on education. And if your question is how much more this amount is than in 2010, then the difference is HUF 2000 billion, that's how much more this government spends on educational matters. I would also like to respond to the fact that, while you were speaking alone, your fellow parties held a press conference in these moments, where they should hold on, and suggested that Brussels should raise additional conditions in order for the funds to arrive in Hungary. All this in an area where the European Union has no powers, because the European Union has no competence in education matters. So it is no longer a matter of whispering behind the scenes in the campaign against Hungary against EU funds, but of openly accepting that they would take powers from our country and create new conditions. We've accepted 17 legislative amendments here in the House in the fall. You didn't support that. That would have been the condition for the money to arrive. They didn't come. We have accepted the amendment of the laws of justice, as suggested. The money didn't arrive. We have amended the rules on higher education. The money didn't arrive. If they were interested in the situation of teachers in Brussels, they would receive the money, because they knew it very well, because they participated in the negotiations, that they could raise the teachers' wages to nearly HUF 800,000 by 2025. [[Balázs Barkóczi: You should raise that from the budget!]] Honourable Congressman, They don't send these money because the government or Parliament doesn't amend certain laws, but they don't send them because we don't give in to war cases. And if you doubt that, look at how the Committee on Budgetary Control has said. The Prime Minister said no war, that's our position. And he said there was no EU money then. And European Commissioners, members of the European Commission, have also said that Hungary needs more to be taken out because of its war position. So, we stand, honourable Member, that for months pressure has been in the form of statements of condemnation to the European Parliament, in the form of extortion with investments. Last time, they also said that the powers of the Hungarian EU Presidency would be taken away from us and that they would retain EU funds. Then the Momentum comes, and what do you suggest? That there should be new conditions for Hungary. For the longest time, who do you represent? Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-05-30-24	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Gy. Ms Erzsébet Németh, DK Group on Current Affairs. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2023-05-30-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Parliament, At the end of last week, there was a scandal that there wouldn't be an interim pension increase this year. Péter Banai, State Secretary for Public Finance, wrote to the Meeting Council of Pensioners Organisations that there will be no interim pension increase because the data of the KSH do not justify this. Even though the price increases due to inflation in Orbán continued, despite the increase in the cost of the 13th month pension, the government responsible for all of this spread its arms and asks the pensioners to wait until November, then the government will kindly give them back something of the money that would already be due to the elderly, but according to Viktor Orbán he is in a better place than he is. It is not a new practice, the government has been doing this to pensioners for years: it deliberately under-plans inflation to pay less pensions than would otherwise be, and then months later, at the end of the year, it hits its forehead that, then, Hungarian pensions did not retain their value, as a coincidence, the inflation in Orbán was higher than planned, so it pays the difference in the form of a pension correction. In the meantime, the money that would fit the pensioners in the middle of the year is being used freely by the government as if it were his. They've been doing this for years. You lend public finances to Hungarian pensioners without asking them to lend it to this government. This is the only credit in the world that is not decided by the creditor, but by the one who takes the loan or, in this case, takes the loan, that is, you. Apparently, pensioners don't have any say in when they're getting their money for what they've worked for. This is the key, fellow Members. It's not a reward, it's not some kind of grace that a good leader exercises over the elderly. No! It's the kind of money that these people worked through and taxed their lives through in this country. It's money that's behind the work of people who've been honest in grey, getting up early for decades, endless, hard work, and, for many, a half a century of squirrel wheel. When you do not want to pay a pension correction during the year, the 40-50 years of work of millions of Hungarians will be ignored. If you also take into account the 1.5 percent that you owe pensioners from last year and the year before last, and the debt they have accumulated since January, then today the government owes a total of approximately HUF 84 thousand to an elderly person receiving an average pension. Once again, 84,000 forints to make everyone understand. That's a lot of money for them, while last year, Lawrence Butcher made that in 15 seconds. You're sorry about this money from the pensioners. There is no reason to wonder why there is no honor in the work if 15 seconds of stealing is worth more than 50 years of honest work. The most outrageous thing is that all this is done by the government of price increases with Hungarian pensioners. You don't raise wages, you don't raise pensions, you don't raise social benefits. All you do is raise prices. You have unleashed Europe's largest inflation, orbán inflation, on Hungarian pensioners. You cost a thousand forints a kilo of bread, 4-5 thousand forints a kilo of trappist cheese or more than 1,000 forints 10,000 [[Sic!]] Piece of eggs. This is the price of your so-called government, which is what we pay with the inflation of the European champion in Orbán. With inflation in Orbán, you have doubled food prices in two years, according to the HCSO. So much for the fact that your State Secretary for Public Finance does not consider it appropriate to raise the pension on the basis of the HCSO. You raise prices and keep pensions low, and you don't even pay what's due. The only good thing is that no one today can say that there is no alternative to this inhumane system. Klára Dobrev set up the shadow government to show that there could be other ways to increase wages and pensions instead of prices. As part of this, the shadow government also developed an automatic pension correction on a quarterly basis. When your government becomes a bad memory, the pensioners will receive it on a quarterly basis. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This will be the minimum, the basis for the extra pension increases. After a lifetime of decent work, a normal age should be paid to pensioners. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-05-30-26	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, Deputy Minister, wishes to respond. You have the floor. [[12.10]]
u2023-05-30-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, I need to protect my colleague, Secretary of State, Banai, because he didn't write it and he didn't say what you're saying here. You have read the People's Republic and made your speech from it. [[Defiance.]] should have read the letter by Minister of State Banai, which reads as follows:. However, if, on the basis of the interim data, we find that the expected annual general or pensioner inflation rate would be higher than that estimated by 2023, we will make a retirement adjustment from January onwards. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, [[Lot. Elizabeth Németh: When? When?]] Yeah, we're doing a pension correction, just like we've been doing for the last 12 years. So the claim that my colleague in his letter to the Meeting Council of Retirement Organizations would have claimed that during this year's year, or even before November, a pension correction could not be paid to pensioners is simply not true, lying, lurking. But it's not far from you, is it? We know that your president, your leader, your boss, told us that when they governed, they didn't do anything else from morning to night or from morning to morning? Like they weren't telling the truth. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: This is pathetic, Mr. Secretary of State. It's been 13 years! You've been on the government for 13 years! The president's ringing the bell.]] But that you are making virtually false statements in Parliament in opposition and as shadow minister, I think that this should not be done, and that may also cause a credibility problem on the left. You know very well that the Fidesz-KDNP government appreciates pensioners; it appreciates them, not as you have done during their eight-year, long-term governance. The policy of the current Fidesz-KDNP government and the then Gyurcsány government, which you supported, is certainly different in one thing. [[Mr. Zsolt Gréczy: Minister of State Meg Banai!]] That you didn't promise the pensioners anything, but you kept it. The Fidesz-KDNP government, on the other hand, promised to protect the value of pensions and does so every year. In fact, when the performance of the economy permits this, pensioners also receive additional pensions as a share of the economy, with one-off additions. The Fidesz-KDNP government did this by raising pensions above inflation every year, as a result of which the average pension of HUF 97 thousand in 2017 had already increased to HUF 209 thousand by April 2023. It protected it three times in the last year when it raised the pension for 2.5 million pensioners at the beginning of the year and twice at the beginning of the year; and it will do so now, too, in 2023: pensioners received a 15 percent pension increase at the beginning of the year. We must also say that you have taken away the 13th month pension because, when Europe, the world and Hungary were in economic crisis, you saw the solution to take away the 13th month pension from pensioners, well, the Fidesz-KDNP government does not see the solution in the crisis that families, pensioners, workers need to be squeezed, taken away from them, but given. It should be given to make it easier to survive the crisis, so all pensioners received their 13th month pension in 2022 and 2023, and the budget submitted for 2024 also includes that pensioners will receive the plus one month pension in 2024. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would think that to you, as a yearning minister, [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Fidesz's pension policy should be studied [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: No way!]] And once they're in power, which I hope it doesn't, we should do the same thing, copy it, not criticize it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-30-28	Thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, János Latorcai, Member of the KDNP Group, Vice-President of the National Assembly, applied for a pre-meeting speech:. What does Csíksomlyó say? It's an address. Mr. Vice President, you have the floor.
u2023-05-30-29	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, Before his ascension to heaven, Jesus promised his disciples that he would send them the powerful, comforting Holy Spirit. The Christian world celebrated Pentecost the other day, the flood of the Holy Spirit. On the 50th day after Jesus'resurrection, the apostles were filled by the Holy Spirit, and all the peoples of the world began to preach the gospel by addressing them. This call was also heard by our ancestors during the time of our King Saint Stephen, and the same call has led Catholic Hungarians and Szeklers since 1567, to the Virgin Mary of Szíksomlyo. As in one of their publications, Franciscan Fathers serving in Csíksomlyon write, "For here you will find the comfort, hope, and support of the pilgrim's struggling life. He comes here like a troubled, worried, scared child to his mother. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Just a few days ago, he was once again transformed into a large church and filled with pilgrims, the saddle section between the mountains of Small and Nagysomlyó, indicating the living reality of the church. This hundreds of thousands of pilgrims were honoured by the presence of President Katalin Novák and Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén, President of KDNP, with their personal pilgrimage. For 456 years, the people of Ciuc, Gyergyó and Kaszon took up arms to protect the Catholic faith. Now, Father Erik Urbán, the Transylvanian provincial of the eight hundred-year-old Franciscan Order, called attention to the fact that the world is still in danger today, and today's world also needs the certainty of unarmed prophets who warn of the cruelty and inhumanity of war. Csíksomlyó, my fellow Members, sends messages every year, gives strength and hope to those who have prayed there for centuries. This is why for the Hungarians of the world the Shrine of Szíksomlyo has become one of the most important spiritual centers, protectors and subjugators of the message of faith and survival for all that determines our national consciousness. The foundation of the nation is a community of family, love, and life, and its future is a child with responsibility and upbringing. Responsible education includes the transfer of values and teaching that we are members of a historically established, lasting community, which is enjoyed by a common language, territory, thousands of years of values, characteristic culture. And this characteristic culture in the life of Hungarians cannot be separated from Christianity, which, with its values, sets an example, calls for peace, love, unity. Today's consumer society, as well as the ideologists of the Western world, deny and consider these values to be exceeded. But we Hungarians can never forget that, despite all the disasters, alien destruction of power, our blood-drowned freedom fight and our revolution, we have been able to survive again and again thanks to our attachment to these values. Today, problems that seem almost unsolvable in the world have accumulated: epidemics, economic, value and moral crises have plagued us; a terrible war has been going on in our eastern neighbourhood for over a year; and a great deal of wisdom and restraint is needed to keep the Balkans from burning further south of us. [[12.20]] In this situation, we especially need the strengthening of our faith and the strong communities bound together by faith that have been the key to our survival for centuries. This should also give us hope for our future survival, as Father Erik Urbán said at the farewell on Saturday, because hope, fellow Members, does not mean that things will certainly get better, but rather that if we make a decisive commitment to the good cause, God will help us. Let us, then, all of us, and following the message of Csíksomlyó, serve with complete commitment the issue of the survival and unity of the Hungarian nation! Thank you, Mr President, for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-05-30-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Miklós Soltész wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2023-05-30-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Vice President, First of all, I thank you in the name of Catholic believers who could be at the pilgrimage and be there in Csíksomlyó, but thank you also for speaking and remembering this wonderful great celebration on behalf of all Hungarians. Thank you, of course, to the Archdiocese of Gyulafehérvár in Transylvania, the Franciscan brothers, for the organization that has made these few days so wonderful and beautiful and a few hours of holiday up in the saddle. This is how Father Erik Urbán put it: the saddle between Kis-Nagysomlyó and Kis-Nagysomlyó became a great temple. Dear Parliament, Father Erik has not only set tasks in his speech, but has so far corrected confused or twisted thoughts and words, let us say: he has clarified definitions. As you have quoted, he said, among other things, that we should be able to distinguish between need and passion, between desire and desire - we should call it wisdom; we should learn to appreciate those who are in the service of the public and the common good, we should call it appreciation for their fellow man; we should learn to pay attention to the given earth, to respect and to protect life, to put God in the center of consciousness. But as you have said, there is a need for unarmed prophets to testify, and those who warn us about the inhumanity of war are called peace and the awareness of peace. We need to learn that the combination of a man and a woman, which is the smallest social cell, and a fundamental institution for the life of the church, nation and society, is a community of love and life, as you have quoted, children are both hopes and challenges, where they pay attention to each other with caring love, and we call it a family. Wisdom, appreciation, patience, awareness, humanity, brotherhood, peace, family, nation and church were the main messages. Father Erik asked me how all this was done. In the words of Kölcsey, the greatest force alone can't do anything, I can say it can't do much: it is often possible for the combined forces to see the impossible. What's a drop of water worth? But united drops per million are a shocking force. In other places, he continued the strength of cooperation and the importance of personal responsibility, in the words of Martin Luther King:. If you can't be a pine tree on the ridge, be a bush in the valley, but be the best little bush on the bank of the small stream. Be bushes if you can't be trees. If you can't be the main roads, be the paths. If you can't be the sun, be the stars. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Dear Parliament, I would like to express my thanks to the hundreds of thousands of pilgrims, from Felvidék, Transcarpathia, Transylvania, Partium, Székelyföld, Csángóföld, but also from South Hungary and the Hungarians of the diaspora, even from South America. Thank you, the Crusaders. Thank you also for how well the pilgrimage was arranged. Romanian newspapers said that it was a celebration of cleanliness, order, and joy. Let us not pay attention to what they were upset about, how the words of President Katalin Novák were translated, and let us not pay attention to the fact that, where appropriate, Congressman Gréczy was pouting during your speech. Rather, we're looking at appreciation. [[Zsolt Gréczy: I didn't say anything!]] The opportunity to thank the Romanian authorities, police officers, gendarmes and firefighters for the helpful and supportive work that has once again raised the light of this holiday. Thank you for the hundreds of thousands of volunteers and the help of those working in the background. The reception of the Crusades, the csángó Masses, they all raised the holiday. I would like to thank all the people of Transylvania, Szeklerland, and, of course, you, too. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-05-30-32	Thank you very much. I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Barna Pál Zsigmond, Member of the Fidesz Group, spoke with the title of our current affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-05-30-33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, The corrupt left-wing elite in Brussels decided to take an unprecedented step, another attempt to adopt a lying decision to prevent Hungary from serving as President of the Council of the European Union as of June 2024. Once again, the left goes beyond all borders, but we do not give in to pressure. The left-wing group of the Brussels Parliament wants to punish Hungary again. They want to force migrants on us, they want to eliminate our family protection measures, and the last thing they said to us is that it's unnecessary and it needs to be withdrawn. Once again, they are preparing for a drastic attack, for which they have no legal basis, and the draft confirms once again the double standard represented by the left in Brussels. The text that is being prepared is full of harsh lies and calls, among other things, on the European Commission not to pay the EU's money due to Hungary. Among the authors is the Hungarian hater Daniel Freund, who has repeatedly falsely attacked our country and made it clear that the reason for the Hungarian pro-peace policy is to stop the EU funds due to Hungary. We get it, that's where the wind blows. They do not like the fact that Hungary wants peace, and as a further step, they want to force us into the war. They are putting increasing pressure on us to give up our pro-peace position and their goal is to join the ranks of pro-war. However, we stand by our pro-peace position, and we continue to call for an immediate ceasefire and the early start of peace negotiations, because war demands human lives, which can only be protected by such means. Dear House, In addition to Freund, however, we can read the name of a Hungarian, a momentary representative, Katalin Cseh among the authors. It's harder to find words for that because it's really the bottom of everything. How does a politician who believes in democracy and European values imagine betraying his own electorate, his own nation in this way? ! Has it not been made clear that Hungary is a full member of the Union and that the issue of the current Presidency is being dealt with in the Lisbon Treaty on the European Union? Of course, the congresswoman's own wallet has been more important than the nation's interest, which is confirmed by the corruption scandal. For the future, I suggest that you remain silent rather than sell out your country again for thirty pieces of silver. It is outrageous that while the dollar left in Hungary protests for teachers' wage increases, while working in Brussels to ensure that Hungarians do not receive the funds they deserve, and so that teachers do not receive the wage increase. Dear Parliament, Hungary has already filled the Council Presidency once and has done well, and everyone has given a commendable opinion on the well-established Hungarian Presidency. This will be the case in 2024 no matter how much they drill us on the left. The preparation is progressing well, and we want to put on the agenda as important as the demographic challenges in Europe, which are not desirable for the pro-immigration community. [[12.30]] Instead of migration, we focus on family policy and promote the protection of indigenous European national minorities. Ladies and gentlemen, We will not let them take this opportunity away from Hungary. The President's position, the European Union's decision, has previously been unanimous, has not been dealt with by the European Parliament on this issue. We still do not allow the left to blackmail Hungary, who, even bypassing EU treaties, are working against Hungarian interests, to be deeply ashamed of themselves! Once again, we send a message that we stand by our position as pro-Peace of national interest, and that we will not allow the dollar left and their comrades in Europe to bring Hungary into the war. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-30-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. You have the floor.
u2023-05-30-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. If we look at this draft European Parliament, we can easily feel that not a week goes by in the European Parliament where Hungary would not be dealt with while not dealing with big, decisive issues. They do not deal with the fact that, for the most part, due to their decisions, Europe is able to obtain the necessary energy at a much higher price because of sanctions. As a result, inflation has been at an unprecedented level throughout Europe since the 1980s, as a result of which Europe's competitiveness may be at a huge disadvantage, possibly permanently, thus putting jobs at risk throughout Europe, and I could say more. These are issues that the European Parliament does not address, but it regularly deals with Hungary. Therefore, if you had a small arrival between the two Hungarians, a little time, energy, then it would be good to deal with economic issues as well. As far as their proposal for the Hungarian Presidency is concerned, it would be good to go into the details, but everyone knows that this is not really about the details of the Hungarian Presidency, but this is another tool for exerting pressure on Hungary. We have seen decisions, discrediting articles, levitating or extorting investments, and we see most of the retention of EU funds. So what you have been talking about, Congressman, is not a new thing, but a new tool for many who exist. But why is that? Because they want our country to change its position, most of all about the war. And I'll tell you again, I'll tell you who doesn't believe, look at the tone of the budget control committee, who clearly said that if we say that there is no war, then there is no EU money for Hungary. It's clear and scandalous. Well, as far as war cases go, I'd like to respond to one more thing. I'm glad that Congressman Tordai has returned to the benches. The mayor is surprising, although in some ways he has made a not so surprising statement these days. According to Gergely Christmas, Hungary is at war with Russia. Well, it's not a blunder from excitement, it's not a blunder, because he also confirmed to the reporter that he thought we were at war. It's part of the whole picture that it's not the first time. We remember how many times Gergely and Gergely Christmas demanded that we send weapons to the battlefield. Mr Tordai also added that a decent country is sending weapons. I'll just add quietly that if there hadn't been a change of government in 2010, we wouldn't have anything to send because they've weakened the military, the artillery, the air force, for example, the number of volunteers was below 100. [[Intercoms in DK's benches.]] This government had to reinstate the defence, so that while we want peace, we could still defend ourselves. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: Have you succeeded in 13 years?]] We also remember how they campaigned for sanctions that put the whole European economy on hold a year ago. They argued that we should pay the student money. What insensitiveness! It's like we haven't paid the student money so many times in our history! We also remember that when we had to vote on a resolution here in the House, a pro-peace resolution, they did not support it. So whether we look at it in detail, in whole or in close proximity or from a distance, what the left represents is a brutal pro-war position. And there's no one left-wing party that's old or new that's gonna stand out of that line. There's only one thing I can't say, ladies and gentlemen of the House. Now we don't know how Gergely Christmas would survive in a real war situation. We have an opinion. But more importantly, I think that instead of campaigning for war, you would have enough to do in Budapest. Because in the struggle for public cleanliness, better transport, or a more livable city, he is losing. So it would be better for everyone if Gergely Christmas led Budapest rather than war propaganda, and started running it. In any case, we have seen the result of the fact that the left has received billions of money from abroad for a year. For example, the Christmas Gregory movement was half a billion. They represent many kinds of cases, but not what the Hungarians told us last year. They want peace and security. So the fact remains that the sky is blue, the dollar is green, the left is pro-war, the Hungarians want peace, and unfortunately only the governing parties represent it today. No, we're not at war, and if it's up to us, we won't. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-30-36	Dear Parliament, I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Ms Ágnes Vadai to present the speakers who are not on the agenda. Madam Recorder!
u2023-05-30-37	Dear Parliament, Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; Péter Ovádi, Fidesz; Péter Jakab is independent; Balázs Barkóczi, Democratic Coalition; Zoltán Varga, Democratic Coalition; Judit Ráczné Föld, Democratic Coalition; Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik; János Bencze, Jobbik; Zoltán Sas, Jobbik.
u2023-05-30-38	Thank you very much, notary. Dear Parliament, Now, at 12:36 p.m., we'll begin questioning. Dear Parliament, Lot. Erzsébet Németh, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance:. Who raises what? It's an address. By answering this question, the Prime Minister appointed István Nagy, Minister for Economic Development, who is responsible and competent according to the subject. At the request of Minister János Fónagy State Secretary answers the question. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2023-05-30-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. If I could ever understand whether Minister Varga or Minister Martin the Great would answer a question here, I would take it very, very well, but I am also looking forward to the reply of the Secretary of State. Dear Secretary of State, Orbán inflation takes 30,000 forints a month out of the pocket of the average earner, this January's net income is worth less than the 12 months before. It is clear that the European Champion Hungarian inflation is a real Hungaricum. However, the situation of people with lower than average incomes is much worse. The average monthly income of two million people in the lower incomes of the 5th was barely higher than HUF 71,000 in 2021, while it takes more money to make a very scarce living. The KSH doesn't give you any more recent data, but on that basis, the picture is even more beautiful than reality. In 2022, their situation continued to deteriorate, as they are forced to spend much more of their small income on food, overhead and medicine. Two million people in a slightly better position than the previous ones need just as much money as their average income to make a living. This includes some 300,000 pensioners whose pension did not exceed 100,000 forints last year. Mr. Secretary. Let me ask you to spare me your lies. Inflation in the European Union is a third as high as in us and even lower in the euro area. This is inflation in Orbán, because you have, in your old custom, decided to impose on the poorest people the burden of economic bankruptcy you have brought together. On the other hand, the shadow government led by Dobrev Klára is working to break down inflation in Orbán and not to increase prices, but wages and pensions. Answer me, Secretary of State, why do four million Hungarians have to want... [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]]
u2023-05-30-40	Thank you, Congresswoman.
u2023-05-30-41	In fact, they're supposed to be half-thirty. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for the DK benches.]]
u2023-05-30-42	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy, who will answer the question. [[12.40]]
u2023-05-30-43	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I'm sorry, but I have to remind you that the left, of which you are still a member, took a month's pension and a month's wages from the people before 2010. On the other hand, the government is working to create a decent living environment for all, which it sees as possible mainly through employment, permanent labour market integration and reduction of the costs. Until 2010, the number of people at risk of poverty in Hungary was 1.4 million fewer, their ratio dropped from 31.5 per cent to 17.5 per cent, thus reducing them to the EU average. The proportion of people living in extreme poverty has fallen to a third since 2010. There are also two new measures aimed at protecting families and pensioners against high inflation caused by war and sanctions. The mandatory action will be launched from 1 June and the online price monitoring system will be launched from 1 July. Average wages have steadily increased in Hungary, the increase in gross average earnings has reached 155 percent from 2010 to 2022, while net average earnings have increased by 159 percent without counting family benefits, taking into account them to 168 percent. The rise in real earnings was also more significant, with average gross earnings of only 65 percent during socialist-liberal governments, and real earnings of only 13.8 percent, and then the family discount did not exist. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-30-44	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, András Fekete-Győr, a representative of Momentum, wishes to ask the Minister of Regional Development:. When will EU funds arrive in Hungary? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2023-05-30-45	My questions are addressed to Tibor Navracsics, the Minister responsible for bringing EU money home, who was brave enough to send in his Secretary of State instead of you, but let's do it this way. So the Minister, Tibor Navracsics, promised last June that EU funds would arrive in Hungary in the second half of last year. In July, last July, he said that the money would arrive in the fall, so last fall. Then the autumn came, and the Minister spoke about seeing these funds in the first quarter of this year. In December 22, Tibor Navracsics said that we could receive money in April or May this year. Dear Secretary of State, Today is May 30, but EU money is still missing. Meanwhile, the minister responsible for the negotiations attended the meeting of the Hungarian-Czech twin cities, on the Gizella Days in Veszprém, and also visited the Kapolc Spring Fair. He bought an unmissable bean guillotine in Vigándpetenden, handed over the Veszprém Factory Garden, where there will be really good programs, and in the organization of the Batthyány Circle of Professors he also talked about his own political career, but also remembered Miklós Zrínyi at Zrínyiújvár. And it's just May. With all due respect, in addition to this dense programme, did the Minister still have room to negotiate with EU bodies? Are you sure that the Member of the Orbán Government responsible for the EU negotiations will do everything in his power to bring back EU funds? Was it really unmissable, Mr. Secretary of State, that bean-gulled Vigándpetenden? Secretary of State, can the Minister say a date that will not expire in two weeks when Hungary actually receives these EU funds? Thank you very much for your reply. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition.]]
u2023-05-30-46	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Csaba Latorcai, who will answer the question. You have the floor.
u2023-05-30-47	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, This is not the first time you have argued with reality, but you have now based your question on an article full of serious errors. First of all, Minister Navracsics never said that the funds would arrive in Hungary in 2022; they do not want to deceive the Hungarian people again. Minister Navracsics has said and consistently said that if it were up to him, these funds would already be available. Under the leadership of Minister of State, we are working to ensure that these funds arrive and serve Hungary's further successful development through the support of Hungarian businesses. If there is anything to be asked, it is your behavior, because your party partner, Katalin Cseh, whose family company has been circulating in the stench of corruption, has been blackmailing the Hungarian people since the election of the MEP, and I quote: If Viktor Orbán remains in government, the Hungarian people and the Hungarian economy will not have access to the source they deserve. And what an interesting fact, it was exactly Katalin Czech who accompanied the European Parliament Budget Audit Committee visiting our country. It is therefore not surprising that, as a result of its action, Daniel Freund stated that further pressure is needed to hold back EU funds. Mr President, it seems that both in your speech and in real life you can, therefore, make some mistakes, not least, I would like to give you a few examples: Japan is not in Europe, honourable Member, I would like to draw your attention to this, but in Annex VIII. There is no Liliom Street in the district. It does not help the citizens to prosper simply to remove a misunderstanding, to prevent the arrival of EU funds without any effort. Stop it! Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-30-48	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Dezső, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior: What does the government do for patients with dementia? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-05-30-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Deputy Minister. Dementia, or spiritual degradation, is a change in personality and a gradual loss of self-sufficiency. Dementia requires continuous and complex treatment, a social, health and social problem at the same time. Today neither the health system nor the social institution can meet the needs of this vulnerable group. 70-80 percent of the dementias live in their own homes and are cared for by their families, who are increasingly burdened with physical, mental, and material care for their loved ones. It is estimated that dementia in Hungary means nearly 300,000 sick people. But the number of people directly involved in society is nearly one million. This would require measures in itself, but if we are aware that Hungary's population is not only losing weight, but that society is constantly ageing, we can see that within 10-15 years an explosion is expected in the number of elderly people with dementia, for which the currently incomplete care system is not fully prepared. You've recognized that. In 2019 the EMMI announced that it was preparing an action plan for dementia. Good. The problem is, the action plan and Columbo's wife show a lot of similarities. It's supposed to be, but no one's ever seen it. Have you forgotten? Demens is the government? I hope not, which is why I'm asking: what does the government do for patients with dementia? Please calm me down, Deputy Minister. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition.]]
u2023-05-30-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári will answer the question. You have the floor.
u2023-05-30-51	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Dementia is indeed a question that more and more Hungarian families are facing, more and more people are meeting with relatives and acquaintances, and indeed more and more of our elderly compatriots can ask us to help them and their families to help them, when, indeed, as you have referred to it, they are increasingly less and less able to make decisions about their lives, and they need more and more help from others. This is a world trend, as the physical age throughout the world is increasing, as medical treatments that help us to survive are getting better. At the same time, helping the brain is another area. [[12.50]] This is why Hungary has launched one of the most modern brain research programs in Hungary, led by Tamás Freund, who is the re-elected president of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, so that we can strive to maintain the functioning of our brains at the highest possible level for as long as possible. This is therefore a scientific part of the matter, but you are absolutely right that it is very important to take many preventive measures, to improve diagnostics, to expand care services. Here, too, there are lifestyle risks that can be reduced throughout our lives for 40-50-60 years, such as smoking, alcoholism, obesity, and it is important to have a health-conscious lifestyle, to visit screening tests, as if participation rates were to increase in screening tests, disease could be recognised earlier, help could be given sooner. It was a completely new disease prevention objective for the government to set up a network of health development offices. There are 110 health development offices in total, and 87 of them also have mental health centers, precisely so that the population can preserve their physical, mental and mental health as much as possible. Of course, there was also the development of specialist care, the expansion of seats and the re-reclassification of seats. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] and if you look at it, you can participate in specialized care with HUF 900 thousand or HUF 2 million in the case of moderate, severe dementia. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-30-52	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Brenner Koloman, a representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Construction and Transport: å Why does the current Fidesz government consider driving as a luxury? It's an address. By answering this question, Prime Minister Mihály Varga has appointed Minister for Finance with responsibility and competence. At the request of Minister, Mr András Tállai, Deputy Minister, will answer the question. You have the floor.
u2023-05-30-53	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Car driving has always been an area that governments have viewed as a major source of income, since almost every Hungarian household has a car. However, it must not be forgotten that it is the provision of individual mobility that forms one of the foundations of European civil development and civil democracies, which must not be sabotaged but, in our opinion, be supported. Because the key to Europe's historic rise was the development of individual freedoms and freedom of research at the same time. This is how the well-being and freedom that we would think of for Hungarian citizens can develop. And indeed, pollution is a real and serious problem, but we conservatives also see the positive effects of technical development, as this is how the healthier living environment in Europe has developed, the diseases that have caused the deaths of the masses have been overcome, and the expected average life expectancy in Europe has increased by leaps. At the same time, this development has delivered us to the 21st century. To the point that there are many political forces in the European Union, such as the lifestyle illustrious side, which wants to make people feel guilty because they want to live in normal conditions. The Jobbik-Conservatives reject all extreme views: those who work to increase the technical conditions of motorcycling work against the freedom and well-being of people, while driving is not only an environmental, but also an economic and cultural issue. Let's see what currently looks like buying a car, what the current Fidesz government policy looks like! If we buy an average Suzuki of 7 million forints, 2 million will enrich the state register. In view of this, I would like to ask Mr State Secretary when the current Fidesz government will take Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's 2006 thoughts seriously and consider driving as not a luxury. I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2023-05-30-54	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Deputy Minister András Tállai. You have the floor.
u2023-05-30-55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Allow me to ask you not only politically or in a little scientific way, as you did, but we are trying to look at it numerically so that I can prove that your claim is not entirely true. 1. May I remind you that this government was the one who maximized fuel prices during the fuel price explosion and maintained it until security of supply made it possible. I guess if the government considered driving a car a luxury, it wouldn't have taken that step. 2. The car tax rate has not changed in over a decade, 13 years. 3. The registration tax has also been unchanged since 2012, which has also decreased compared to the previous period. 4. The procedural fees after registration or registration have been unchanged for almost 20 years since 2005. 5. The amount of the transfer fee for the vehicle has remained unchanged since 2012 under the maiden name of the transfer fee. I suppose you can see that if the government saw car use as a luxury, it would not have allowed these items to be in the same amount in some cases for more than 10 years, but would have suggested to the Parliament that they should be increased. Honourable Congressman, I am very confident that these figures have proved to you that you are not approaching the issue well. If not as a politician or as a university assistant, [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] I'm sure you'll accept my answer, at least in spirit. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-30-56	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Member who has asked the next question according to the list of speakers is not present in the Chamber. [[István Szabadi enters the room.]] He arrived at the moment, and I'll ignore him. Dear Parliament, István Szabadi, representative of Mi Hazank, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior a question, "Why do you want to flush the motorists down?" It's an address. You have the floor.
u2023-05-30-57	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, As of 1 May, a 1 km/h speed overrun can be sanctioned. It's amazing the tolerance reduction that's been in the car industry for a month. The police ended the practice of allowing a 3 km/h difference in 100 km/h and a 3 per cent deviation in the past. With this measure, the police have once again demonstrated that they are not trying to prevent accidents, but to increase revenues, as this requirement cannot be complied with in a fair manner because of many factors. Motorists don't go 2-3 km/h beyond speed because they want to speed, these speed surges aren't intentional. The fact that the majority of accidents are due to relative speeding is not unknown to the police, due to the choice of speeds not in accordance with weather, road and traffic conditions. [[Breathing:]] In our view, the current measure has no other motivation than the further exploitation of motorists and the increase in public revenues. I'm sorry, I was running really fast, and that's why I can't breathe. [[Bence Rétvári: He has crossed the speed limit! Defiance in the ranks of Fidesz.]] If the police really want to take action to reduce accidents, they should act in order to eliminate road faults and lack of road signs. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State's reply as to why it will increase the burden of motorists by unnecessary measures. Furthermore, the question arises as to whether the police speedometer is certified in accordance with the regulations and whether the authenticity is checked regularly. In case of dispute, can the driver present the verification at his request? I'm sorry again. Thank you. [[David Dócs applauds.]]
u2023-05-30-58	Thank you. Of course, we understand, Congressman, that you should be in this room at another time. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári, who will answer the question. Here you go.
u2023-05-30-59	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The police are trying to make sure there are as few accidents on the roads as possible. All road rules, all checks are designed to reduce the number of accidents, which is why there are any regulations in transport. [[13.00]] Since 2010, strict rules have been made and these strict rules have been enforced. As a result, the policy you have also attacked has resulted in a 30-percent reduction in the number of fatal accidents and a 35 percent decrease in the number of drunken accidents. These are two numbers in which, when you think about how many people's lives have actually been saved by enforcing the rules in transport, then everyone can see what their real purpose is and what their result is. The strict enforcement of these traffic rules is not in vain, it can be measured in human lives and accidents. As far as measuring instruments are concerned, honourable Member, the measurement authority has previously had a so-called validation error margin, within which it has defined the margin of error that this equipment can measure. This margin of error was also included in the certificate of verification. However, the practice of the measurement authority has changed recently, and it no longer measures with a margin of error, but can fully verify the operation of these devices in absolute terms and without margin of error. The police carried all the speedometer equipment through the new procedure validation procedure, each equipment received a certificate with no margin of error for a period of two years, so the practice of the police can now be adapted to the lack of margin of error. So you can't attack the speed surge from the motorist's side later by saying that this could have been caused by an error within the margin of error, or possibly by the fault of the device. We hope that this will result in even fewer accidents, even fewer fatal accidents, and that we can preserve the physical integrity of more people. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-30-60	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Tamás Mellár and Bence Tordai, representatives of the Dialogue, want to ask the Minister of the Interior:. What does the government do to reduce the shortage of teachers? It's an address. I give the floor to Congressman Bence of Torda.
u2023-05-30-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, We got to the point where the student and educator protests hit each other. Today, young people are still watching for education, in two days' time, and on 1 June there will be national protests about public education and generally the unsustainable conditions of the entire education system. I don't know, I could tell you again what the parents, students, teachers and professional organizations object to, but you know that, and your answer to all of this is not a real public policy response, but the Vengeance Act, which doesn't solve anything but exacerbates the problems. All of this can be measured very well on the extent to which graduate students do not apply to higher education for teaching and teaching. We've read a lot in recent weeks about the fact that she was a science associate, where zero, one, two, three people came to the whole country. This is clearly the failure of your education policy. According to some estimates, ten times as many people retire as they start teaching in a given year, and the proportion of teachers under the age of 30 is less than 5 percent, but 40 percent are over 50 years old. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Mr Secretary, I have three specific questions for you, and I hope that you can get some meaningful answers out of you. The first is: what are you doing to reduce the currently 17 000 teachers' shortage? The other is a rather general question: how do you evaluate your education policy for the past 13 years, in line with your evaluation of students, parents and teachers? Or can we expect the government to reject the application of the Vengeance Act? Thank you, I look forward to your answers. [[A round of applause in the dialogue.]]
u2023-05-30-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2023-05-30-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, For the Hungarian government, it is an important objective that students get as much knowledge as possible in the school that prepares them for life, and that Hungarian education should be as competitive as possible in the international field. One of the ten most qualified education systems in the world is one European, the tenth, all other non-European, mainly Asian, and second, North American, Canadian. So there is a huge competition here, and this is what Hungarian children have to endure. This is why we want to strengthen the more competitive school system that gives children the most useful knowledge in Hungary. We believe that the new career law is very important, according to which teachers who put more into the 45 minutes and the 45 minutes period can finally pay higher wages. Those who give more to children will have higher wages. General wage increases are also important. You know, we want to achieve and you are working against the average salary of an educator in Hungary by 2025. This is important for everyone, except for a few dozen left-wing representatives who are trying to prevent this in Budapest and Brussels day and night, but our goal is to raise wages and pay in proportion to performance. Over the past few weeks, left-wing politicians have been trying to settle for educators and educators. Politicians have launched actions to which they have tried to invite teachers, but even according to their own political assessment, this has brought only partial results. The proportion of teachers and students is seen not only in Hungary but also in other countries, as this is also addressed in other countries. The same or similar polarities are formulated there. In the OECD, a teacher has an average of 14 students when I look at the most recent numbers. In Hungary, the ratio is more favourable and has improved in recent years, and we will strive to improve this ratio further in Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2023-05-30-64	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congresswoman Bernadett Bakos, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister for Construction and Transport:. Has the Government decided on the Transport Museum? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and State Secretary Balázs Lánszki will answer you. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-30-65	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Previously, a number of news has come to light about the removal of the Transport Museum, which has been closed since 2015, this time from Stone Mine to Debrecen, and my related question in the autumn has been answered by the government that has not yet taken a decision on the matter. The plans of the museum are in an advanced state, they were made for the diesel hall of the Northern Vehicle Repair, so these plans, the almost HUF 8 billion spent on planning and the HUF 10 billion received for preparation would be thrown out of the window. A new railway stop is also being built for the Transport Museum, thus improving urban community transport with a new transport and transfer hub, as well as the development project would include the House of Arts and Culture, the renovation of which is an important symbolic element of the renewal of the area. The project would save them and give them a new function of valuable industrial history. It is worth considering the usefulness of the project in a larger perspective, as it significantly promotes the high-quality rehabilitation of the Rusty zones in Kőbánya and Józsefváros, as the Museum of Transport and the Eiffel Workshop already operating lay the foundation for the creation of a functionally rich part of the city, not far from the geometric centre of Budapest. Filling the area with cultural and cultural and recreational functions would also promote the situation of the neighbouring Népliget. So this would be a model project, even against low-function housing projects in similar areas in recent years. Dear Secretary of State, Has the government made a decision yet? If so, what decision was made and on what basis? If not, when are you expected and what aspects will you consider? Thank you in advance for your reply. [[Applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2023-05-30-66	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. As I said, the answer will be given to you by Secretary of State Balázs Lánszki. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2023-05-30-67	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you for your question on cultural and urban development. As you know, and we probably agree that the Museum of Technology and Transport has a very long history. The idea of creating such a museum was formulated in 1896 and subsequently handed over and implemented in 1899. So this kind of historical perspective and this responsibility must also be an important lesson for us in such a way that we must examine these investments in a thorough and appropriate way. We trust you'll agree. And the fact that you mentioned areas of rust or brownfields, thank you very much. We are actively working on the evaluation of this type of urban area, whether in terms of our legislative or other planning council work. [[13.10]] The Ministry of Construction and Transport was transformed on 1 December 2022, so the subject itself came to us on 1 December, and since then I have not seen such a presentation, which would have been a rural location, but of course it is not a bad idea, thank you, we will examine it, as we are sure that Budapest should be developed, but many other major cities also have the potential to take advantage of where appropriate. Thus, the fact that the whole or part of the museum in Debrecen, Szolnok, Győr or wherever it goes requires a serious professional work, and I would like to invite you to this work, if you would like, we welcome your suggestions. So thank you very much, there is no decision yet on the subject. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-30-68	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman Zoltán Demeter, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister for Energy:, What are the measures to be taken in relation to domestic residential LPG? It's an address. Honourable Member, you will be answered by Secretary of State Attila Steiner. Here you go.
u2023-05-30-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Thanks to the government's measures, the registered energy prices will remain in Hungary in 2023 for the average consumption, saving a family HUF 181 thousand per month. The Ukrainian war and Brussels' sanctions policy have led to a drastic increase in energy prices, which could also affect a wide range of areas, the residential LPG market. PB gas cylinders are used by hundreds of thousands of people daily for cooking and water heating, so it should be avoided that supply difficulties arise in the purchase of cylinders. The government is constantly monitoring energy issues, including the situation in the LPG market and is also supporting the supply of energy to consumers away from the natural gas network. We know that the LPG market is profit-oriented and competing companies on the market are decisive for the supply of their products to households. We have been informed of a number of cases where operators have supplied the 11.5 kg PB gas cylinder with only 10,9 kg or up to 10,6 kg of charge, and there are also voices that, in the absence of government intervention, some distributors are leaving the Hungarian market due to the burden. In view of these phenomena, the question may arise that there may be a disturbance in the market for LPG cylinders in the area of pipeline propane, i.e. village gas, as well as in the area of public tank gas supply. My question: how does the government intend to maintain the country's security of supply despite the drastically rising energy prices due to the Ukrainian war and Brussels' sanctions policy, and what is expected of the domestic residential LPG market? Thank you for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-30-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Attila Steiner. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-30-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for this important question, and before coming to the concrete answer, allow me to stress that the energy policy in Brussels and the sanctions in Brussels have caused a huge increase in energy prices in Europe, and that is precisely why we do not support this Brussels sanctions policy, because it is in our well-conceived national interest to prevent the sanctions regime from expanding further to the energy sector, and therefore we do not contribute to the inclusion of gas, oil and nuclear energy in the sanctioning regime. The Member is absolutely right, we estimate that only 500,000 people use LPG cylinders on a daily basis, and many are also affected by residential LPG and the number of so-called village gas users is extremely high. This is why it is important to pay particular attention to the development of the LPG market and to guarantee security of supply here as well. The government also supports the supply of energy to consumers away from the natural gas network. I think it is very important that it should not happen in our country that, for whatever reason, for example when a market player quits, there is a temporary security of supply disturbance with regard to LPG. In view of all this, I am able to inform you and this House that the Government has examined the issue and we have also looked at how we can ensure the security of LPG supply in the future, and in view of all of this, we believe that the following steps are justified. First of all, it is very important to return to the charge weight of 11,5 kg for LPG cylinders at the level of charge [[The president's ringing the bell.]] At the same time, we would give new powers to the Hungarian Energy and Public Utility Regulatory Office to monitor the costs of the licensees and the international and domestic price levels, as well as to inform the public about them. In addition, I would like to inform the Member that, in the case of fixed-line LPG services which also affect many people, there is no reason to change the current regulation. In view of this, I ask the Member and the House to support the Government in this regard. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-30-72	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. With all due respect, I'd like to ask you all to try to keep the two-minute time frame within the limits of fairness. Congressman Miklós Seszták, representative of KDNP, wishes to ask the Minister for Economic Development:. How do government measures on food prices help to make a living every day? It's an address. Honourable Member, Mr János Fónagy, Deputy Minister of State, will answer you. Here you go.
u2023-05-30-73	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, On 20 April, the Government announced that it would extend the scope of the food price stop introduced on 1 February 2022 until 30 June and that it would require the launch of so-called weekly actions as a new measure with effect from 1 June at the latest. However, we will have to wait only a very short time for mandatory action, since it will start on 1 June, according to the Government's decree announced on 5 May. From that date on, we will be able to buy food much cheaper in 20 product categories each week in the shops concerned. The maintenance of price stops and the imposition of mandatory measures are part of and continue and expand the government's measure to drastically reduce inflation and reduce inflation to one-digit terms. The online price monitoring system launched from 1 July will also help to combat food inflation, which will record daily and regular customer prices per trader and shop in over 60 product categories. The obligation to provide data on a daily basis is, by virtue of the power of the legislation, charged to the largest commercial business chains, i.e. those whose net turnover in the preceding business year exceeds 100 billion, but there is also the possibility of voluntary accession to the system. Dear Secretary of State, In this critical situation of war and sanctions, we must protect Hungarian families, Hungarian people, with all possible measures, against the extra costs arising from circumstances outside their own faults. Please explain your position on how government measures on food prices help you to make a living every day. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-30-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I said, is given by Deputy Minister János Fónagy, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2023-05-30-75	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, In 2023, in addition to the dangers caused by war, we also have to fight inflation. In order to reduce inflation, the government has already decided, on a proposal from the Minister for Economic Development, on some 20 measures to curb prices and protect the economy. The measures put in place are working and their impact is becoming increasingly visible. In order to further reduce food prices and increase competition in the retail sector, the government required mandatory action for retailers between 1 June 23 and 30 September 23 on the basis of Greek and French samples, for traders with net sales of more than HUF 1 billion in 2021. Twenty categories of products subject to action are defined. The online price monitoring system can be launched in the middle of summer and will be operated by the Hungarian Competition Authority. [[13.20]] The online database will initially contain the price of more than 60 food categories. We expect the new measure to stop overpriced and speculation by lowering prices and increasing competition, so that inflation can continue to decrease in the near future. The government's objective has not changed in the current situation: it is necessary to protect the recession; it is necessary to achieve a 1.5 per cent economic growth; and it is necessary to reduce inflation to one digit by the end of the year. This is how we can protect families, pensioners, jobs and full employment. Thank you for your attention, Mr President, for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-30-76	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Member Balázs Barkóczi, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior a question: "Do you really think so, Minister? It's an address. I would like to inform you, honourable Member, that Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, will answer you. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-30-77	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, On 17 May, the disbanding of Hungarian public education reached another level, as the Minister of Defence himself announced in a morning program of the public radio that the soldiers fired during the cleansing he called the rejuvenation could return to the service of defence, through the education of the basics of defence. Let's see, Mr. Secretary, if we understand correctly. So, while you're cutting off teachers' right to strike, you're firing the teachers who protest against it, and because of the resistance of those in public education, you're punishing future generations of educators with a vendetta law, sending fired soldiers to school? While there is a course in science that only one student applied for this year, while not only rural schools, but also high schools in Budapest, are suffering from a lack of teachers, would you remedy this by re-employing fired soldiers? And while there's an overloaded teacher and student, the curriculum is outdated, while there's no free textbook selection, the most important thing for you is to teach the basics of defence in schools? Dear Secretary of State, At a meeting on 24 May on the Vengeance Act, your minister said that the teaching career is not a profession, it is a profession. And this is how you value those who choose this profession, who have this purpose in life, so have you studied for years, then hospitalized, trained and finally taught that they are considered replaceable at any time by representatives of another profession? Dear Secretary of State, Are you serious? 'Cause it'd be a real joke. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-05-30-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2023-05-30-79	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, This is just another false news that you have been spreading to teachers since the beginning of March, it was published in early March, right, as a draft law on the new career law, since then. Of course, ex-patriots who appear in schools would teach the subject of defence, and of course they would have a training course before them, because they really know all the secrets of defence. [[Balázs Barkóczi intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] They can also teach this subject if they have the necessary pedagogical skills, honourable Member. So in this case, this could happen on this subject. There is, however, some kind of discreet charm when you hold a press conference during strikes that there is no right to strike in Hungary, and teachers cannot strike while a strike is taking place. [[Balázs Barkóczi: They can only be fired!]] I would add that for each strike, participation can be measured as a one-digit percentage, since for each strike, participation was around 3-5-7 percent, and by far more than 90 percent of teachers did not participate in these strikes. But it's not because of the law, it's because the people who organized it weren't credible enough. As regards the previous week's talks: this was, right, the 19th meeting on the new teacher's career law, when we invited representatives of the nine parties to a meeting, where the representatives of the nine parties came to give you a moment's notice to stand up and leave, and for about an hour they arranged for who would give the signal and how they would leave the meeting place. They also demanded that the parties' experts be consulted. We called this together the next day, invited representatives of all the parties, and invited representatives of the seven opposition parties. How many out of the week? Three. How much did you have left? Two. One of these was a Mi Hazank, and one was Erzsébet Nagy, who, I think, could have had a 12th meeting because he had already agreed as a trade union, he also consulted as a participant in a national strategy table for public education, and now he has consulted as an expert on MSZP. It also shows that there are no great differences between politics and the organizers here. So, with a loud voice, you've gone out for not listening to the experts, and the next day, the experts didn't come, there were those who left early, and there were two who sat through the meeting, an expert at our country and the MSZP. It's just politics. It's just a charade. [[Balázs Barkóczi: That's right, it's an act!]] You don't mean that, you just want to create political tension. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-30-80	Dear Deputy Minister, Mr Secretary of State, I'm warning you, too. Dear Parliament, Congressman Balázs Ander, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Interior a question:, Will you be brave enough to admit that the Hungarian teacher society has been slapped in the face with false statistics? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Deputy Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer you. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-30-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, At last week's meeting, Minister of the Interior said to me that, based on statistical data, he did not see that teachers or students were overwhelmed. Well, these statistics certainly come from you, as it is memorable, four years ago, in answer to a question I asked at that time, you replied that practically Hungarian teachers spend the least time with students, teaching only 608 hours a year, compared to 680 hours the EU average and 735 hours the OECD average. With that statement, he practically insulted the teachers. The fact is, if we call on elementary mathematics, it will also disprove you, because if we multiply 22 minimum hours a week by 36 teaching weeks, 792 hours will come out. That's 30 percent more than you're talking about. There's been quite a few more of these blood-boiling statements. One of these was when Viktor Orbán's friend and advisor, László Parragh, president of the Chamber of Industry, discussed with an 11 million-dollar Rolex on his wrist something about the fact that it is better for teachers to stop whining about teachers' wages, they have their summer break, it motivates them. Indeed, the salary cannot motivate them very much, because if we look at OECD surveys, if we compare teacher's earnings to the average wage of a graduate, then Hungary is at its back. Mr Secretary, the thing is, on behalf of the Jobbik-Conservatives, without a respected teacher, this country will have no future. The only thing I'm asking you is, do you admit that for years, it has actually been false about the workload of teachers? After all, according to OECD surveys, it is clear that teachers are above the international average and belong to the upper third. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] they teach as many hours a year as a Dutchman, a Danish or even a Norwegian teacher. I'm waiting for a confession and an apology. Thank you. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-05-30-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. Deputy Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer you. Here you go.
u2023-05-30-83	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I didn't think that after nearly a decade of representation and a few years on the teaching field, I would have to recommend the four basic operations here to your attention, but if you've asked me, I'd be happy to do it. You know, in Hungary, teaching classes were defined as 45 minutes. The OECD measures an hour in 60 minutes. And by the way, there are countries where there are not 45 and not 60, but, let's say, 90 minutes of teaching. So the OECD first converts the Hungarian 45-minute hours into 60-minute hours, and thus compares the countries, because there are, where there are, where there are 60, where there are 90, but this is how you compare the clocks with each other. So the solution to the problem that you've been rolling for four years is very simple, and you haven't been able to find the key to what the 30 percent difference between the two numbers is. Well, that's exactly the difference between 45 minutes and 60 minutes. So I'm glad that with a simple mathematical operation, I can solve this dilemma for you. And if you look at the OECD's statements, they are not the Hungarian government's statements, but the OECD's statements, which really bring the results that we have discussed in recent years. And I don't think that's gonna give anyone a grade or a grade, and we have to look at the whole education thing, and we have to make it better. The new teacher's career law is also about the fact that those who have several classes, who have several extracurricular sessions, should finally earn more money to be the example, who is the one to be recognized, are the parents who recognize him, because they are grateful for what they do more for their children than the average. If the parent is more grateful, if the child receives more, then why is this not reflected in his salary? [[13.30]] Why is it that you, the left, are constantly attacking this and refusing to acknowledge how much it would be in the best interests of the children? If you look at the OECD numbers in Hungary, either in secondary school or in secondary school, you will find the numbers on the OECD website in the OECD's statements, which the Hungarian government has also said. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So we'll accept that if you apologize to us. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Ander Balázs intervenes.]]
u2023-05-30-84	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Dávid Dócs, representative of Mi Hazank, wants to ask the Minister for National Policy, Nationality Policy, Church Policy and Church Diplomacy:. How do we ensure that families with multiple children do not have to repay millions illegally? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, By answering this question, the Prime Minister appointed János Csák, Minister for Culture and Innovation, who was responsible for the subject, who gave the right to answer the question to Deputy Secretary of State, Eszter Vitalyos. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-05-30-85	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House of Representatives, My question relates to the benefits and support of large families, because if there is something to be recognised, it must be acknowledged that large families should be supported, especially those large families who hope to earn their bread in a fair way, are decent taxpayers of Hungary, and their children will be raised under normal circumstances, so that the future will be the future, and I think that this generation as Hungary's waist. I would like to draw your attention to a practice that has caused problems for dozens of families, since among the large family discounts, the car purchase discount could be 2.5 million forints, but it is possible that for a debt of up to 6500 forints, the Hungarian Treasury would have reclaimed or reclaimed this 2.5 million forints from someone. A family contacted me in a letter informing me about this, and after we looked into it, it turned out that they were not the only ones, but now there are 65 families with whom the Hungarian Treasury acted in the same way. This year, the court has already stated that the Hungarian Treasury has unlawfully reclaimed millions from large families, but the State Treasury has ignored this and expressed its conflicting interpretation of the law, and has not responded to requests. What is the government's position on these cases? How do they guarantee that families with multiple children do not have to repay millions illegally? Those who had to pay this amount back, can they expect any kind of compensation? Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause from the benches of our country.]]
u2023-05-30-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be addressed to Deputy Minister, Secretary of State, Eszter Vitalyos. Here you go.
u2023-05-30-87	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You have already submitted this question to our wallet in writing, and I have no choice but to repeat and confirm what I have already written to you in my reply of 15 May. Let me begin with a slight adjustment: there is no Ministry of Social and Innovation in Hungary. Family policy has been in the Ministry of Culture and Innovation for a year now. As regards the specific question concerning the support of large families for the purchase of cars: the Hungarian Treasury responsible for the case is acting in accordance with the law and fairly. In the framework of this programme, until 1 December 2022, more than 28 thousand families were supported by the government, with a total grant of HUF 70 billion, and 65 of the 28098, three or more families with children were required to repay the aid because of irregularities or public debts. No misunderstanding, the 65 cases are also very regrettable, but I must correct that if the irregularity can be justified by an accounting error or a self-checking problem, the Treasury will review the obligation to repay. In the meantime, those who have settled or settled their public debt at the time of application within 14 days of receipt of the Treasury's call will receive the aid they may have already repaid in whole or in part, even the interest on late payment paid from the Treasury. So I maintain what I said at the beginning of the reply: the Hungarian Treasury is acting in accordance with the law and fairly in this case. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-30-88	Thank you very much. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior a question, "How long will the Ministry of the Interior assist me?" Honourable Congressman, Deputy Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer you. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-30-89	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Allow me to begin my speech with a literal quote from a mother, "My children really have to grow up in a gunfire where there's supposed to be a quiet suburban residential area?" ! Where do you think that desperate sentence came from? They won't guess: not Transcarpathia, not on the Russian-Ukrainian front, but on the IXth. in the district, in a suburban part of Ferencváros, because the problem is caused by the shooting range on Péceli Road, where they keep shooting like their lives depend on it. For several years, this activity has made the daily life of the residents of the MÁV-Aszódi settlement miserable, but sometimes even the shootings can be heard in Száváhíd utca. [[There's a sound of gunfire on his phone.]] Excuse me. [[Bence Rétvári: This is a very bad joke!]] I'm sorry, I didn't turn my phone down.
u2023-05-30-90	I hope, Congressman, that was an accident.
u2023-05-30-91	Absolutely, I'm sorry. [[Interventions from the benches of opposition parties: Ah! Absolutely.]]
u2023-05-30-92	Thank you very much.
u2023-05-30-93	The district municipality has requested an independent expert and, according to the expert opinion, the noise emission of the range exceeds the permitted limit. I do not know what you think, fellow Members, but I think it is not normal at all that the noise of open-air shots from the Péceli road range is an unbearable burden even at a closed window in the surrounding houses. I have three questions about the case to the Home Office. Do members of Home Affairs use or use the shooting range in official form? What is the reason why the District Police Department, under the authority of the Ministry of Interior, tolerates and assists with the continuing violations of the gun range? Also, is there any chance that the government will finally make a move and shut down the firing range for the rest of the people there? In conclusion, allow me to apologize once again, it was not intentional, however, I think that you did well to present what the people there are listening to every night and how they should raise their children and how they should organise their daily lives with such noise. [[Dr. István Apáti: Complete coincidence!]]
u2023-05-30-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Deputy Secretary Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2023-05-30-95	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I don't know what was intentional and what we weren't, let's not question your word, but I don't think it was tasteful to create such sound effects in a speech. [[Antal Csárdi intervenes.]] You spoke of peace at the beginning, honourable Member, while your former party partner, your former candidate for Prime Minister, Gergely Christmas spoke about Hungary's war, while you were making such sounds, so I don't think you were lucky, I'm sure this is a coincidence, according to you. As far as the specific shooting range is concerned, neither the Budapest Police Headquarters has any cooperation agreement with this sports space, nor the Police Education and Training Centre, so shooting for training purposes will not take place in this sports area. Only sport activities can be carried out in this rental. This was launched earlier by a sports shooting tradition association in 2020, then another sports association took over the operation. As you pointed out, there were various complaints. The permit itself is obviously within certain limits, so on what days you can use the gun range and when you can't. Also, an acoustic expert opinion was prepared earlier, and the number of shots was limited, whether by handguns or by machine rifles. The BRFK carried out a number of audits, whether in 2020 or in 2020 or in 21, or in 23 or in 22 and has been continuously asked for expert opinions, but nevertheless the audit is continued and continued, in the past, and will continue in the future. If there is anything in the expert opinions that justifies the withdrawal of the authorisation, they will, of course, do so, but such an expert opinion has not yet been prepared. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-30-96	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman Péter Ovádi, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister for Construction and Transport:. When can the travelling public enjoy the renewed train station in Veszprém? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Secretary Bálint the Great will answer you. There you go. You have the floor. [[13.40]]
u2023-05-30-97	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, This year Veszprém will play the role of the European Capital of Culture, involving the institutions of the city and the region, the actors and civil society organisations of its cultural scene. Following the grand opening event on 21 January, Veszprém and the region are preparing a number of colourful programs in the festive year, together with increased interest. It is a great pleasure that the first phase of the renovation of the Veszprém railway station started in early February, linked to the programme. The investment will be carried out with the support of the project "European Capital of Culture" and HUF 355 million, dedicated to this purpose by MÁV from its own resources. In view of the above, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State when the travelling public can use the renewed train station in Veszprém. Thank you very much for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-30-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State Bálint the Great. Here you go.
u2023-05-30-99	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Allow me to start by saying that the operation and development of fixed-track transport is of paramount importance to the Government of Hungary. Perhaps nothing more proves this than the renewal of a 655 km railway line between 2010 and 2022, the electrification of the 253 km railway section, and the development of 217 platforms and 141 railway stations and stops, worth a total of HUF 1500 billion. The development of Veszprém, as you said, is more than HUF 1.1 billion, if you consider its total value and it will take place at two paces. The first one will be completed on 30 June, which includes primarily the waiting room and the interior. This means that after 30 June, the audience from Veszprém and Veszprém will be able to make full use of this first phase. The second stage, which means primarily the exteriors, the facade, will be complete until 30 September. Allow me, honourable Member, to mention that the Government of Hungary has provided further assistance to the city of Veszprém and the region, as several new services have been introduced. In addition, the last train from Veszprém to Budapest will start at 23 hours 41 minutes, thus helping the public transport voters to stay in the programmes even more, and the Veszprém-Balaton 2023 EKF ticket to Veszprém-Balaton, which will be symbolically sent to 2023 HUF and can be reached for this money from any railway station in the country. I wish Congressman good work and a very successful season in Veszprém. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-30-100	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman Zoltán Varga, representative of DK, would you like to ask the Minister for Economic Development:. Battery manufacturer, or the rust zone of Europe? It's an address. By answering this question, honourable Member, the Prime Minister has appointed Mr Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, who is responsible and competent according to the subject, to whom Mr Tamás Menczel, State Secretary, replied. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-30-101	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. I am no longer surprised that it is the secretary of state who has received the right and opportunity to reply. Well, when I heard the new investment of the Chinese Sunwoda Battery Company, the truth is, I've been trying to figure out how many active and designed batteries there are. I got about 30 in the count, I put my hand up there, and I gave myself up, and I said, "This is insane, this is all the battery companies, and after Hidden, it's free, it's only in the maths." But what's in it for us? We are in a tight supply of energy, and we know that because of climate change, there is less and less of the water needed, and as we can see in Göd, serious pollution is being tolerated by the authorities at your command. Profits are for companies, corporate tax relief is granted for a long time, their products will be paid a third lower VAT in Germany, and mainly Chinese migrant workers will work there. Of course, you say that well, well, Germany is happy to welcome the battery companies, but please, there's a dog buried there that, for example, the GigaFactory factory next to Berlin will have 60 percent added value, while in the CatL in Debrecen it doesn't even reach 20 percent. There is design and software development that will produce a major part of the profit, and we will get the trained work. Yes, we Hungarians only get the plants that require training, and Orbán's obsession is a work-based society, where work and not high added value work are important. This is a clear indication of the path to detachment, because we know this very well, as the Secretary of State knows, the added value creates fair wages. That is why wages are so miserable in our country, which, of course, is being further damaged by inflation in Orbán. No matter what happens to you in a couple of years, the rest of the time, they just want to steal as much as possible. But the shadow government led by Dobrev Klára is working to break down inflation in Orbán, not to improve prices, but wages. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2023-05-30-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, we will hear the answer from Secretary of State Tamás Menczer. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2023-05-30-103	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Listening to you, I kept wondering who's talking here, who's trying to lecture us here. But you have spoken, and your boss is Ferenc Gyurcsány. No? Ferenc Gyurcsány, who is trying to present himself as such a red gym shoes, pompous, sympathetic figure, but, in fact, he is the most harmful figure in the Hungarian political history after the regime change. Well, Your Honour, you've ruined everything. You have brought this country into a moral, moral and economic crisis: 12 percent unemployment, huge public debt, foreign exchange credit, triple gas price, double electricity price, one month's wages, one month's pension, and this could be further classified. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] You have bankrupted this country in every respect, and yet you are here to say anything without shame. Of course, that's not surprising, because, as I said, your leader is the great storyteller, the autumn bash. Since Congressman Gréczy has been here, you too, the legendary pointer, have been brought back here to the greatest glory of this country. [[Zsolt Gréczy:...the court has also determined that you are lying! Son of a bitch!]] So you have no shame, we all know that, but the facts are still clear, and the fact is, [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Even if it bothers you that this government...
u2023-05-30-104	Congressman Gréczy! There's a possibility. I apologize. Congressman Gréczy, I'm warning you. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Personal attack!]] I want you to read the house rules. It is called the right to speak on a case-by-case basis as a personal offense, but you do not have the option of using invaluable terms. That's why I'm warning you. Here you go, Secretary of State. We'll continue with the time.
u2023-05-30-105	Thank you very much. It is not clear to me what the problem is factually, honourable Member. However, I would like to add once again that, unlike you, this government protects jobs, cuts in wages, pensions, 13th month's pension, and we also protect the family support system. You have concluded your speech, and I will conclude with this, too, that you, honourable Member, have a shadow government, if I understand correctly. I must say, unfortunately, that, on the basis of what you represent morally and professionally, you really belong in the shadows, you look good in the dark, and nothing else really suits you. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-30-106	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman Péter Balassa, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior: When will there be a family support system at European level in Hungary? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, By answering this question, the Prime Minister appointed János Csák, Minister for Culture and Innovation, with responsibility and competence according to the subject, who will be asked to answer to you by Deputy Minister Eszter Vitalyos, Secretary of State. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-30-107	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Thanks to the failed economic policy of the government, Hungarian society, Hungarian families face brutal inflation, which is felt daily in their pockets and wallets. Nevertheless, you keep referring to the data of KSH about how much the savings of Hungarian families have increased, how much more they have made in real terms, and how much more money Hungarian families have. But what is most hypocritical is their propaganda and speech about Hungarian family policy, which is about family allowance. [[13.50]] If you think about it a little bit, I'll tell you that from 2008 onwards, the family allowance is unchanged. If someone compares the amount of the family allowance now, 2023, with the amount of 2008, then in real terms, in purchasing value, they have already lost approximately two thirds of their value. In Hungary, the family allowance has been operating since 1912, which is a financial support to help families and young people. It lasted until 1990 when it was work-based and worked, since then it has been a universal support. If someone looks at it and looks at it, about 1 million 700 thousand people are affected by the family allowance, but you are not interested in this 1 million 700 thousand people, because you have not increased the support and the amount of the family allowance on one occasion since 2008. But if you always refer to Austria and the Austrian lab, then I must tell you that a lot of Hungarians go to Austria, the support for family allowances works differently. By the way, Roganian propaganda says that Hungarians go to work by mistake. Well, I'll tell you that you're going to work for 1500-2000 euros, plus Urlaub and Weihnachtsgeld, 13th and 14th month's salary, which is more than 200 euros. However, Hungarian workers who commute to Austria but have a Hungarian residence also receive these subsidies from the Austrian State. I look forward to your response to the Hungarian government's response to the increase in family allowances. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2023-05-30-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer is given by Deputy Minister, Secretary of State, Eszter Vitalyos. Here you go.
u2023-05-30-109	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You say that one of the hypocritical propaganda of the Orbán government is a system of support for families, after which you highlight one element of countless government measures that provide family support. Well, Congressman, I think this is a truly insidious twist. Our family policy basically supports Hungarian families through tax incentives in the spirit of a work-based society. There is a difference between you and the government and the whole left. After 2010, we immediately broke up with the Balliberal and, let me say, with the support system based on communist aid, and put the emphasis on active support for work. Instead of extending aid, we support as many people as possible with various employment policy instruments, tax incentives, job creation programmes and training. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, by introducing a family tax and contribution allowance, we have provided families with a much greater income increase than the family allowance, since the vast majority of families with minor children, 95 percent, can benefit from this benefit. I can't just leave him alone, how did he put it? their self-righteous attitude towards family policy, because Jobbik did not vote for the introduction of family taxation, and on all four occasions said no to increasing family tax relief. You did not support the ban on mothers with four children, and you also said no to giving birth to mothers for three years again. We prove by our actions against you that Hungarian families are the most important to us. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-30-110	Thank you very much, Madam Deputy Minister. Dear House, Congressman Máté Kanász-Nagy, representative of the LMP, would you like to ask the Minister of the Interior a question: - Maximize the release prices of private health diagnostic services? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Deputy Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer you. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-30-111	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, There has been much talk recently about the fate of clinics, the prices of private health, the length of waiting lists, which are not only a problem for surgical waiting lists, but also, unfortunately, for diagnostic care. At present, the government's activities in the health sector are not exactly being followed up by half reforms, although solutions are needed to resolve this sector on a professional basis, in the interest of patients. We believe that funding should be increased, waiting lists should be reduced and private health prices should be blocked. Significantly increased waiting times lead patients clearly towards private health. Here, on the other hand, there are extremely high prices. For example, a routine large lab or an abdominal ultrasound can be up to 30,000 forints, and for a gastricoscopy you can charge up to 90,000 forints. Most people can't afford that. The LMP's proposal is therefore the introduction of a private health premium for private health diagnostic tests. Once again, I would like to ask you to support this proposal and to review NEAK funding in order to provide more resources for public benefits. In order to reduce waiting lists, do you consider public funds to be involved in reducing waiting lists by purchasing new private health capacities? We have to go to the clinics. Péter Takács, State Secretary of Health, spoke about nationalization of specialist clinics even recently, but the press said that the local government associations had already been told that the government had released this question. I'd like to ask you if that's true. Are they really not going to nationalise the specialised clinics operating in the municipal reserve? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much.
u2023-05-30-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, the answer is from Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2023-05-30-113	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Since the Social referendum in 2004, a referendum has confirmed the position of Fidesz-KDNP that health is not a business, but that the left has always wanted to do business in health care, always reaching out to privatization for paid health care. Ferenc Gyurcsány, the former Prime Minister, has said that we must disperse the illusion that health care is free and that we must allow rational consumer behaviour. Here in Parliament in 2021, he said about the visit fee, that it was a real, progressive strategic reform. Then Péter Márki-Zay, the candidate for Prime Minister, supported by you, said, "I'm more relaxed if the health business is not, because where it's not business, it's ruined. By doing so, you have made faith in paying health care and have continued to carry it on ever since the elections. However, we strive to increase the wages of doctors and the wages of nurses so that health care is as high as possible. At the beginning of our administration, a beginner doctor had a gross basic salary of HUF 129 500, now it is HUF 687 837. A doctor with a lot of experience earned HUF 262 345 as a gross basic wage at the top of his career in 2010 with 40 years of professional experience, now earning HUF 2 380 057. A nurse with an OKJ degree at the beginning of our administration earned 160,000 forints with a 4-6 year legal relationship, now earns 517 thousand forints, who has a higher education degree and has been working as a nurse for 20 years, he earned 220 thousand forints in 2010, now earns 690 thousand forints as a gross basic wage. We would like to continue on this path, to increase wages for the workers from July onwards, and then continue to raise their wages next year. We think this is the right way, not the private health you're proposing. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-30-114	I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break.]] I'm embarrassed because I don't have any information as the head president, I know it's been handed over, but I haven't been informed that they've given me the right to answer. Then we'll continue. Congressman Zsolt Gréczy did not ask for an improved scenario, a representative of DK, to ask the Minister for Culture and Innovation:. Why do not they support independent theatres from the price of the Corvin Chain Palace? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, In answering this question, the Prime Minister appointed the Prime Minister's Minister, who asked Minister Miklós Soltesz to answer the question. There you go. You have the floor. [[14.00]]
u2023-05-30-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Orbán government is always complaining that there is no money and Brussels and sanctions, of course, Viktor Orbán voted for them all one by one, but at the same time billions continue to flow to unnecessary things. Culture or spiritual life will not escape waste. Now, for example, the Corvin Chain Corps has received a palace, costing $6 billion. This is strange because the board that decided on recognition hasn't met in years, they have been able to perform their duties from home, online, so-called home office. In the palace there were 2200 square meters of tulips, music and cigar rooms, suites, as well as hundreds of millions of Mednyánszky and Czóbel paintings for the walls. Without these, it is impossible to decide who will receive such an award, especially if it has not been distributed for years. It is a relief for Hungarians, who have been crippled by inflation in Orbán, who are living with less and less wages, that Katalin Novák's office can also propose the people to be rewarded, and will decide not only on the release of terrorists in the Sándor Palace, to be more specific. Hungarians don't have a room for music and cigars, they just crouch for shopping, as long as the Orbán regime and Fidesz dorbeze. I ask the Secretary of State: why is this urination, especially if a body doesn't work? Please do not answer that DK does not respect tradition: Corvin chain, because that would be a lie, and that Horthy's is really not respected, so I ask the Secretary of State why not, let's say, give this money to value-making theaters and independent workshops, there would be a greater need for it. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-05-30-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from Secretary of State Miklós Soltés. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2023-05-30-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Congressman, I know you like to point out certain things, and here you are trying to point out something, by the way, many things that are simply impossible. He continues what we started here in the political debate with Olga Kálmán and Gergely Arató, when they kick into such respected people, to great greats who have done much more for Hungarians, culture and science alone than you and your political community do during their entire epoch. Instead, I must say that people who are no longer among us are being attacked by the deceased members of the Corvin Chain Corps: Ede Teller, Zoltán Kocsis, István Nemeskürty, or László Lovász, Éva Marton, Éva Water E. New Year's Eve, who are living among us and who are now well respected, could be listed here. Honourable Congressman, You've mixed up a lot of things on your question, so let me answer a few questions about culture as well. 30 rural and 7 Budapest theatres, as well as the Puppet Theatre, are jointly operated, with a payment of nearly HUF 15 billion. In addition to the maintenance function, we have also made significant cultural investments, unlike you. From 2010 onwards 110 cultural investments were decided within the framework of HUF 621 billion. The government supports performing art organizations with no maintenance or qualification by tender, with more than HUF 830 million in funding available for this purpose. To say that the government does not support culture [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] You're putting the money in the wrong place, that's not true. And once again, you are constantly attacking esteemed members of the Corvin chain and huge men illegally and undeservingly. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-30-118	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman János Bencze, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question: what about Hungarian farmers? It's an address. Honourable Member, Deputy Minister, Mr Sándor Farkas, answers you. Here you go.
u2023-05-30-119	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, The domestic farming community is in a state of reminiscent of the 2005 years, because if the crops are sold at the previously known buying prices, they can only be sold with losses, as a addition, the land law has already been mentioned before, the established land price has taken half of the value of the land assets of the farmers in most parts of the country, but there are also nearly two thirds of the value of the land. The domestic beekeepers are basically heading for bankruptcy thanks to the cheap and mostly false import honey that flooded the country, especially a honey trader who has been ejected from public tenders by the Hungarian government. The keepers of animals are milk producers, shepherds, or duck farmers in an unimaginably hopeless situation. The low-cost grain did not bring the printed prices, but it did bring the printed buying prices, and the duck farmers are also hit by avian flu, and the grazing livestock farmers have pulled the rented pastures out of many places, and this was not pulled out by other people than the land speculators associated with the fidesz mafia, so let's just say. Since last spring, despite the propaganda text, the number of problems affecting agriculture has not decreased, but has increased. Fair people from land, livestock, beekeeping are slowly ruined, earth speculators, orange grain merchants, counterfeit honey importers live their world, apparently fear no retortion, no punishment at all. Do you think this is the success story of our agriculture? A year ago, people in the sector were promised success and prosperity. Thank you, and I look forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2023-05-30-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, the answer will be heard from Deputy Minister Sándor Farkas, Secretary of State. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-30-121	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, The past years have brought a new situation for all Europe and Hungary in particular, and in particular, the conditions of the agricultural economy have certainly changed to the greatest extent. We can think not only of the Russian-Ukrainian war, but also of agricultural products produced outside the European Union without strict regulations, and of the sanctions imposed in Brussels. What is clear is that Hungarian agriculture, the Hungarian agriculture from Brussels, is not worth any special support or appreciation. Under all circumstances, the government provides farmers with a number of tools and tools to adapt to changed circumstances and to remain effective. The result of this work is that since 2010 Hungarian agriculture has been able to show the fifth largest efficiency improvement among all EU Member States. The severe droughts of the last year and the increase in the various costs, the devastating consequences, the increase in investment costs have been a major challenge for agriculture, combined with the transformation of its macro numbers. Of course, the overall impact of these can also be felt in the assessment of the results of agriculture in the 22nd year, but at the same time we can trust and, if you look around, you will also walk, I think, the country, at the moment we see a completely different picture of the situation of Hungarian agriculture in relation to plants. I'd like to share another number with you. The strength in the Hungarian agriculture is illustrated by the fact that, despite all difficulties, farmers spent HUF 686.2 billion on development in 2022, which is 6.6 percent higher than in 2021 at unchanged prices. We continue to grant all support to farmers from the Government of Hungary in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-30-122	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister, Secretary of State. It's 14 hours and 8 minutes, considering the two minutes, and we're at the end of the question. It is now possible to speak on a case-by-case basis. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Gréczy. I would like to inform you that the order of business is two minutes, and a minute to present the order of business, one minute to explain and explain.
u2023-05-30-123	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I asked for the floor because Mr Tamás Menczer, State Secretary, made an unspeakable remark here. This is particularly embarrassing because, apparently, the Secretary of State, the backup runner, didn't know that all he was referring to was 27 court judgments saying that it didn't happen, and a police investigation found that I was the victim of a crime. To the greater glory of the Hungarian Fidesz rule of law, the Fidesz press published zero corrections from these corrections. So much for the Hungarian rule of law and the Fidesz press. [[14.10]] If my name has come up in this type of comment, it is difficult for me not to mention that when such accusations are made here, there has been a person here in Parliament who has actually shown himself, only he is sitting in the benches of Fidesz, only he has entered on the front page of a man magazine, obviously on the sign of a family-friendly government. So I would like to refuse to be criticized in any way by any of the Fidesz Members in this matter again. 27 court judgments, several damages, and a police investigation into my defense have shown that everything that is sometimes accused of being sandals has never happened. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-05-30-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'm asking you, someone from the government wants to respond to what's been said. [[No signal.]] He doesn't want to. Ladies and gentlemen, So now it's 2:10 p.m. for immediate questioning time questions and answers. Dear Parliament, Gergely Arató and Olga Kálmán, representatives of DK, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Why? It's an address. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the head of the DK Group said in advance that he would ask for a personal reply, so that he will have to answer at the hour of the next immediate questions due to Mr. Prime Minister's absence. Accordingly, the question of the representative of DK's next question will now follow. Member László Sebian-Petrovszki, representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Construction and Transport an immediate question:. What are you doing? It's an address. I respectfully inform you, Congressman, that because of Minister Péter Ágh's absence, the Secretary of State will answer you. Mr László Sebian-Petrovski has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-05-30-125	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. We could call it a bad comedy, as you govern Hungary. [[Bence Rétvári: The Gyurcsány government!]] It's more of a tragedy; it's the latest case I'm going to ask you about. Following the canopy-free canopy and the viewing tower built at a height of 1.5 meters, another symbol of the theft of EU funds and the sources of the Hungarian budget at the industrial level was born by your government. MÁV filed a complaint against Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's buddy, Lőrinc Mé-száros, which introduced the ironless concrete to Hungary. The company of Mészáros simply missed iron, precisely the steel structure from the reinforced concrete during the renovation of certain railway sections. In other words, in addition to the deplorable quality, it may have been dangerous to renew railway sections from tens of billions of public authorities. The Democratic Coalition has filed a complaint in this case, because with this scandal, corruption in Orbán has reached another level, as it has entered a new, dangerous phase, as we are now at a point where the richest man in the country can steal Hungarians' money while endangering human lives. They steal the iron from the reinforced concrete, let the wall or column fall, maybe onto the track. Why would that bother you, Fidesz billionaires, if there's more money for a Mediterranean trip, private jets, luxury yachts? Why would this bother Viktor Orbán's good friend that while he is getting rich from the country's robbery, inflation in Orbán means that Hungarian people's salaries and pensions cannot afford a living? So I ask Mr. Secretary of State: will Viktor Orbán's friend's company be held accountable and excluded from all public procurement? Are you going to investigate the railway renovation and other construction activities of Lőrinc Mészáros' company, or are we going to be the country of ironless concrete? Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-05-30-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State Péter Agh. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-30-127	Thank you for the floor. Honourable Congressman, If you're interested in a professional response in addition to the political hack campaign, I can give you the following information. The professional standards and standards for the construction of railway tracks and works are very strict about the quality parameters of the materials to be installed and the work to be carried out. In the course of the work, the quality parameter for all participants is strictly respected, saving materials, as you said, is impossible. During the construction process, materials certified by independent organisations, manufacturers will be supplied and installed, and during the construction process we will be careful to ensure that the materials are properly incorporated in accordance with the specified technical content and the technological instructions. During the execution, the continuous presence of the technical inspector, the customer, is continuously involved in the inspection of the works, taking into account the integration of the quality material in an appropriate quality. It is completely excluded that we do not perform professionally. The continuous checks shall only be carried out in an appropriate capacity for end-use. I think that, if you need further information on the subject you are referring to, I would like to see it with great respect in the Ministry, where we can discuss the issue in professional terms, but with all the introductions that I have said, I think that there is a framework for which, whether the MÁV or any other company in the country does the various purchases. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-05-30-128	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is addressed to Mr László Sebian-Petrovsk. Here you go.
u2023-05-30-129	Thank you, Mr. President. I've really tried very hard to explain from Mr. Secretary of State's words what your answer is to my questions. I didn't quite understand that. It was possible to understand his sentences that what the MÁV did then was not true, so it is not the newspapers, the MÁV itself, that the investment was solved by Lőrinc Mészáros's company with a faulty or ironless reinforced concrete. If this is the case, then I really look forward to the evidence that proves this did not happen. However, if the other is true that, in fact, Mr. Secretary of State tried to say seven-months to save the one that could be saved, then I would ask again what they might think that if any accident, problem, trouble, human injury would be involved. Will Brussels be responsible again, even though, in fact, Lőrinc Mészáros, Viktor Orbán's buddy, has this investment and money been enriched? Does this happen in the country where inflation in Orbán makes everyday life impossible for people living on wages and salaries, those living on pensions? Answer that, Mr. Secretary. Thank you. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-05-30-130	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is due to Mr. Péter Ágh, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2023-05-30-131	Thank you for the floor. Honourable Congressman, In general, it can be said that taking the job and accepting it is an essential condition for professional performance. This is true in all cases, I think, in the case of public investment, but this is the case in all cases with regard to municipalities and even with regard to public companies, in the case of MÁV. [[Kálmán Olga: But where is the iron?]] But as I have said, we are very fond of you in the Ministry, and then we can discuss this issue in professional terms, involving professional people and actors. [[Kálmán Olga: Did they steal the iron? Intervention from DK: We wanted an answer under parliamentary conditions! It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-05-30-132	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. [[Intercoms from DK's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Parliament, Dávid Bedő, Ferenc Gelencsér, Szabolcs Szabó and Márton Tompos, representatives of the Momentum, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question. It's an address. I would like to inform the honourable Members and the House that the head of the Momentum faction has stated in advance that he is asking for a personal reply, so that, due to Mr. Prime Minister's absence, he will have to answer at the hour of the next immediate questions. We now have the question of the two representatives of the Momentum fraction who want to ask the next question. Congressman Endre Tóth, representative of the Momentum, wishes to ask the Minister of Construction and Transport an immediate question: It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Because of the Minister's absence, Mr Péter Ágh appointed Secretary of State. [[For signal:]] Thank you for indicating to me that you accept the person you are responding to. It is for Congressman Endre Tóth. Here you go.
u2023-05-30-133	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, This is what the people of NewBuda think, and this is the clear position of the opposition leadership of the district. After all, in recent times new parts of the city have grown out of the earth, the roads have become overcrowded, and there are schools where they teach in the corridors because there are not enough classrooms. Newbuda's full. All actors are seeing this now, except for two, the government and the investors close to it. The source of the problem is that the former Fidesz leadership of Újbuda was clearly on the side of the real estate tycoons, and in 2018 he established one of Budapest's most investor-friendly construction regulations. As a result, a broken construction fever started in the district: almost ten thousand new apartments have been built and thousands more are being built. Recognizing this problem, the problem of overbuilding, the new opposition leadership of Újbuda launched a review of the construction regulations and introduced a ban on changes in areas threatened with intensive installation. [[14.20]] These included the eight-hectare property designated by the government as a rust zone action area on 17 May. In other words, he removed the change ban in a single motion and gave the investor a privileged national status, i.e. free hand and unlimited installation, who could build thousands of apartments on this site. Secretary of State, in this house last December, János Lázár promised that the world in which real estateists can crush local governments will end will come to an end. Since then, half a year has passed, and the Rust Belt nominations continue to run at full speed. Five such appointments have already been made for NewBuda alone and eight more are under way. Has the Minister changed his mind? Or was he just talking in the air? After all, do you like a world where the profit of investors is the only thing that matters, and the viability of the settlement is not at all? Why do they want to tell the NewBudans from above what could be built in their district? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2023-05-30-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer is from the Secretary of State Péter Agh. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2023-05-30-135	Thank you for the floor. Honourable Congressman, I think we can all be happy that Newbuda is an attractive district, because that is probably why there is so much interest in it as the Member has said. What is it about installing rust zones? As you put it. Rusty zones are areas where the exploitation of which has raised many, many question marks in recent years and decades. In fact, it is always a particular part of the city, if I may put it that way, and I do not know that this is the case with Újbuda, but it is definitely a part of it that expects a rebirth, an idea that will enable it to take a new impetus to the fate of that particular area. The government also decided, in its review of the rust zones, that it could give them a new function, because it saw this problem and wanted to address it. In fact, housing can take place in these areas. If Újbuda is an attractive and lovable district, then there is no wonder that there is interest in others in moving there. On the subject of the architectural law, Minister, he spoke about the future balance he intends to strike in order to ensure that architecture is sustainable. I respectfully inform you that the law on Hungarian architecture is being prepared, and in the future you and every faction will have the opportunity to express their views on the law on architecture. I think that we all think that we are interested in ensuring that all areas, all districts and settlements of the country can be lived. We trust that the vomitous parts of the rust zones will also benefit the districts in the future. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-30-136	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder is a matter for Congressman Endre Tóth. Here you go.
u2023-05-30-137	There's nothing wrong with progress. The Problem With Excessive Development [[Bence Rétvári: What is excessive development?]] And the problem is that a district, a settlement and its population have no say in what is being built in the area of its city. In this connection, I would point the question to you again, and you can promise the people of Újbuda that you will respect the government's decision not to overbuild. Can you promise the government NewBuda that you will stop excavating over-building in the district? Can you also promise NewBuda that they will not throw the district as a concoction to real estate investors, stop the ongoing Rusty Belt nominations and appoint new ones? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2023-05-30-138	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Secretary of State is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2023-05-30-139	Honourable Congressman, As I said, in the context of the law on architecture, you can decide on future regulations and you can express your opinion. Obviously, this will affect NewBuda, the daily lives of the NewBudans. In addition, I can, of course, wish for all of your newbies, and I think that we are all in this way, so that the district can be lived in the future, that it can live for the people who live there, and, of course, everyone is a partner of the NewBudans. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-30-140	Thank you very much. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman István Hiller, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister for Culture and Innovation an immediate question: å How many? Where? Why? About admission applications. Honourable Congressman, Minister Balázs Hankó appointed State Secretary Zoltán Hankó to respond to his absence. I respectfully ask, do you accept the person who is responding, or ask the Minister for his answer personally.
u2023-05-30-141	I accept, Mr. President.
u2023-05-30-142	Thank you very much. Congressman István Hiller has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-05-30-143	Dear Secretary of State, Mr. President. Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! In recent days and weeks, there has been a slightly high-level debate on the number of higher education candidates, which could be summarised as one party said that more and the other said that fewer. I propose, Mr Secretary of State, that we try the almost impossible and have a sensible debate on Hungarian higher education here in Parliament. Not only in this cycle, but already in the last cycle, the government has set out three directions in the field of higher education, targeting applications for higher education, which have been recorded in several documents. In short, I can say that you want Hungarian young people to apply for more technical and scientific studies, to increase the weight of rural higher education compared to the central of Budapest, and to achieve 40 percent higher education in the generation. In comparison, Mr Secretary of State, the fact is that Budapest-centricism has grown from 43 percent to 55 percent in the last decade; the opposite is happening. The fact is, Mr. Secretary of State, that 133 percent have applied to a philosopher compared to last year, that is, one third more; the lawyers lead because they are 139 percent; however, 93 percent have decreased to natural sciences; 76 percent have decreased to basic non-divided living rooms in Hungarian for teaching. The rate of higher education reached is 32.9 percent, and in Hungarian it is below 40 percent. They're out of control, Mr. Secretary. How do you explain this?
u2023-05-30-144	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I said, will be heard from Secretary of State Balázs Hankó. Here you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-30-145	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Well, let's see what the data says. In 2023, 126 449 applied to higher education, 27 percent more than in the previous year, and even more than in 2019, since 112,000 people applied. So we can say that we are increasing the number of higher education participants, who are 293,000 in this year's academic year, which means an increase compared to recent years. Within the MTMI training area, the number of applicants increased by 34 percent, thus exceeding the average number of applicants. If you look at MTMI + areas, which also includes agricultural, medical and health sciences, this growth is even stronger. Let's take a look behind the country numbers. Sopron: 85 percent increase; Nyíregyháza: 66 percent increase; Veszprém: 59 percent increase; Kecskemét: 54 percent increase. The Budapest-region axis has turned around in this year's admission system. At the same time, we have achieved goals by mentioning some in disadvantaged walks, such as Cigand: 86 percent increase in number of applicants, Encs: 67 percent increase in number of applicants. Moreover, in the case of teacher training, if you look at teacher training, the number of first-place applicants has increased from 4409 to 5843. And if we continue to look at how we stand in the field of technical, natural sciences, engineering and IT background, we can proudly say that there is a 50% increase compared to the previous year; if we combine the undivided and divided teacher training, a total of 1,400 have applied for math, informatics, geography, biology, physics, chemistry and combined science teacher training. So the direction is good, what's more, it's getting better. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-30-146	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman István Hiller. Here you go. [[14.30]]
u2023-05-30-147	Dear Secretary of State, It was a good victory report, the triumfus started, but there's no one involved. The problem is that even though you Secretarys of State are sitting side by side, you cannot be asked at the same time because you have been able to dismantle education in different ministries. The problem is that applicants for admissions, when they apply, are, of course, part of public education, but by the time the admission process is completed, they will be in higher education. The drop in standards in Hungarian public education, which, in the past two years, is indeed the result of Covid, is clearly demonstrated by the latest surveys. This is reflected in the fact that the level of candidates for admission is also decreasing, and then even when they become college students. Higher education and education, the attractiveness of the teaching field, are greatly reduced. You don't have to do a status law. The status law in itself is unnecessary, even shameful, but if we don't buy moral categories, but professional ones, not only more, but fewer young Hungarians will apply to teachers. That's where I see the problem. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the benches of MSZP.]]
u2023-05-30-148	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2023-05-30-149	Thank you very much. The dropout dropped from 21 percent to 18.2 percent. This can only work if well-trained students arrive in higher education, and higher education mentoring programmes are completed. Data, fact: we've made progress in this, too. If you are already a teacher, there are some figures about this: kindergarten teacher last year 1440, this year 3270. I told you about the teacher-teacher progress. Instead of 1641, 2851 applied to the teacher, and if I even watch vocational education and training as a conduktor, the application was above average. [[Kálmán Olga: How many retire?]] So we can say that from here on out, the goals that we have set will be achieved through the renewed system of higher education recruitment, cooperation between public education and higher education. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-05-30-150	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Mr Brenner Koloman, Mr László György Lu-kács and Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What do you think of this, Prime Minister? It's an address. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the leader of the Jobbik faction said in advance that he would ask for a personal reply, so that he will have to answer at the hour of the next immediate questions due to Mr. Prime Minister's absence. We now have the question of your representative on the Jobbik faction's next question. Congressman Róbert Dudás, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister for Economic Development an immediate question:. When do you intend to allow the Hungarian people to use the SZÉP card for what they need? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Due to the Minister's absence, Mr János Fónagy, Deputy Minister of State, granted the right to reply. [[Róbert Hondas, standing up, indicates that he accepts the person of the responder.]] Thank you very much for indicating to me that you accept the person you are responding to. Congressman Róbert Hondas has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-05-30-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In Hungary, inflation is a Europe record, VAT is a Europe record, food inflation is a Europe record, and this line could be classified for a long time. Food inflation was above 45% in Hungary at the beginning of the year, without otherwise being a country in the European Union where this figure would have risen above 30 percent. There is a great deal of burden on people, and these burdens are becoming increasingly difficult to bear. Of course, this could include expensive fuel, as the fuel is the most expensive in Hungary for the countries in the area, but we could mention the high overhead, and this line could also be classified for a very long time. The point is, the burden on people is almost unbearable. In a normally functioning country, a normally functioning government would do anything to reduce these burdens. If you would like to highlight the food of these burdens, I would like to say a few thoughts about the burden on food, and say that the government freezes the price of 8-10 products, sending you the message that you should choose from those 8-10 products, I think that is not the solution. It is not a solution for several reasons, for example because it generates inflation and disproportionately increases the prices of all other products. Everything should be done to enable the population to choose as widely as possible from food, not to stand in front of the shelves looking at the cost of bread, milk, cheese, butter and this line, as the price has increased tremendously. 30 percent of the Hungarian population lives below the minimum living age, and I think it is therefore clear that most people do not want to go to restaurants, but, for example, they want to use the amount on the SZÉP card for cold food. This was the case last year, and the figures showed that this was appropriate for both the economy and the people. My question to the Secretary of State: when do you intend to re-introduce this? [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2023-05-30-152	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr János Fónagy, Deputy Minister of State.
u2023-05-30-153	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The SZÉP card was introduced with the aim of increasing the availability of services related to health preservation, healthy lifestyles, generally improving quality of life, while, as it was published in its name, strengthening the role of tourism in economic development and increasing domestic sources of economic growth. The reason for the significant increase in the amount of the SZÉP card application by 2020 was also to promote the recovery of tourism and the catering sector, particularly affected by the Covid epidemic. amending the tax rules relating to the abolition of the Széchenyi rest card sub-accounts 593/22. As of January this year, Government Decree No.1 also abolished each sub-pockets by explicitly stating that the annual recreational envelope allocated to a limited account behind the SZÉP card could be used for accommodation services as defined in a separate regulation, catering services in hot kitchen restaurants, leisure, recreation and health care services. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2023-05-30-154	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Mr Róbert Dudás has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2023-05-30-155	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In a proposal, I think that more aspects should be taken into account, in particular the impact it has on the economy and, on the other hand, the fact that it meets the needs of the population. Well, in order to buy cold food in the future with the SZÉP card, this also has a positive impact on the economy and also meets the needs of the population. From now on, I think it can be said that if someone asks whether this proposal is good, yes, that is good, and a government has a duty to support it. Tomorrow morning at 10 a.m., the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs will begin, and I will take part as rapporteur with this question, and I will ask the Committee to support the proposal for a decision so that the SZÉP card can be used to buy cold food in the future. About one and a half million people and their families are waiting for a positive response. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2023-05-30-156	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Deputy Minister, the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2023-05-30-157	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Member, The government is trying to successfully improve the overall social situation of the population through a number of measures. The authorisation of the SZÉP card for the purchase of food was only temporarily justified by the emergency regulation, given the reasons listed here. But there is a legislative intention, there is a social need, which applies at least to the options that the SZÉP card has now preferred, as to the ones you mentioned. I repeat: the government has introduced a number of other measures to remedy them. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-05-30-158	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, representative of Mi Hazank, vice-president of the Parliament and Member László Toroczkai, leader of the Mi Hazank faction, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question with the title of "current Public Affairs." I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the head of the Group of Mi Hazank has stated in advance that he is asking for a personal reply, so he must answer in the hour of the next immediate questions due to Mr. Prime Minister's absence. [[14.40]] We now have the question of your next representative from the Group of Our Country. Mr Dávid Dócs, representative of Mi Hazank, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question with the title: "Active Public Affairs." Honourable Congressman, Minister Sándor Farkas, Deputy Minister of State, gave him the right to reply because of his absence. Thank you very much for having indicated your acceptance of the response. Congressman David Dócs has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-05-30-159	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Deputy Minister, Mr Secretary of State, My question won't be surprising. The war in Ukraine for a year has marked several domestic economic sectors, particularly agriculture, and has shown its tragic consequences. In the summer of 2022, the EU suspended the application of customs duties on goods coming from Ukraine and forced the opening of a humanitarian corridor from Member States, including Hungary, which would have had the role of delivering grain from Ukraine to the Middle East or Africa, and thus the supply of cereals there could be solved. However, this grain and these oil seeds unfortunately did not reach the destination countries in many cases, but landed here, among other things in Hungary, destroying domestic agriculture, domestic agricultural operators, as there was a product, such as barley in autumn, which dropped to a third of the harvest price during the winter, like the purchase prices offered by the purchasers. I would therefore like to ask how the government can guarantee that products which are not subject to a certain ban from Ukraine, which expire on 5 June, will not arrive in the country, nor destroy domestic agriculture and domestic agricultural operators. Will the government in any way ensure that the price falls that were experienced last year can't happen again this year? After all, the fate of Hungarian people and Hungarian farmers must be much more important than Ukrainians and the fineness and aims of the European Union. I would therefore like to hear from the Deputy Minister what measures were envisaged after 5 June. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-05-30-160	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Sándor Farkas, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2023-05-30-161	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I will try to answer your question. I am saying that I will try because, at the moment, there is a negotiation in Brussels today, and it is expected that tomorrow and even next week, to deal with the Ukrainian cereal crisis. But let's stop for a moment and take a look around before we go beyond the borders of the country. Today, the situation of Hungarian agriculture, the situation of agriculture is good. Of the autumn sowings, the autumn barley is beginning to ripen in part, with a month to harvest. Autumn wheat is likewise a flowering age, or they are already over it. These grains are extremely high quality and beautiful. In the last four or five years, the border in the field of Hungarian agriculture has not been so beautiful. However, we also see that this will mean an increased amount of grain in the next few months. I think I informed you just last week that there is about 7 million tons of spare capacity available. I'm not sure I'll always accept it where it's needed the most, but the safe harvest conditions are in place. And we also see the world as such, and this is something to be noted, and it is not the first time that if there is a good crop in sight, then the grain traders, the processors, will start to reduce the cereal prices at that moment. For the price of 13-15 thousand forints last year, today's price of 5-6-7,000 forints is 50 percent, no matter how we calculate it. This has resulted in a highly hectic market movement and it is unlikely that the increased costs of producers will be covered by these prices. Therefore, we are doing everything we can to ensure that Ukrainian grain does not enter the country. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-30-162	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder will be addressed to Congressman Dócs. Here you go.
u2023-05-30-163	Thank you very much for your answer, Deputy Minister. I think that the answer was more or less correct, because as I see it, the Agricultural Ministry is also working to protect Hungarian farmers at some level. However, guarantees must be put in place to ensure that they do not fail. I understand that a very high crop average can be expected after last year's drought to thank God, the weather and the good Lord have compensated for this, and there are really record yields coming this year. However, I am not concerned about the surplus crop, but I am concerned that many grains treated with plant protection products in Ukraine will produce the same additional crop, not to mention that, unfortunately, GMO products will also come to the fore and are allowed. So how can the surplus crop that farmers will harvest in Ukrainian lands be reduced, and after 5 June how can Hungarian farmers and Hungarian agriculture be further protected? Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-05-30-164	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Sándor Farkas is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder.
u2023-05-30-165	Honourable Congressman, There is indeed a risk of this, but as we have been monitoring transit shipments in the established system with appropriate restrictions and monitoring, which have left the country, we would like to continue to do so and, of course, we would like to prevent, prohibit or advertise embargoes against Ukrainian cereals. But here is another question: we do not know the quality parameters of the production of Ukrainian grain, its environmental impact, and we do not know the use of plant protection products, so we will introduce even higher food safety standards. And if it does enter Hungary for Hungarian distribution, or for animal husbandry or food purposes, we will carry out even more quality control, and it is not excluded that these quality controls will not be more stringent than many people think. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-30-166	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congresswoman Rebecca Szabó, representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Minister of Construction and Transport an immediate question:. Why do you not prevent the concrete of the Lake Balaton? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Minister Péter Ágh has appointed Minister of State to respond to his absence. Thank you very much for indicating to me that you accept the person you are responding to. Congresswoman Rebecca Szabó has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-05-30-167	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The Balaton once belonged to all of us, anyone could have cooled down in the water almost anywhere, enjoying the beauty of the lake. Today, this world is disappearing, family members of fidesz politicians, large entrepreneurs near NER are constantly building up the lake, causing serious environmental damage and keeping people away from water. Moreover, the concreteisation of the beach and the destruction are often financed by the state, in which often the municipalities are partners, when they reclassify or sell the areas near nature, and there is also the institution of the priority investment. These constructions do not serve the average person, for example, because cheaper campsites disappear, and in their place expensive new hotels, luxury apartment houses are built; or even ports in the area of the beach, such as Balatonföldvár, where the new sailing and yacht port is built longer than the Chain Bridge, destroying a beach visited by 40,000 people a year. Due to local civilians' lawsuits, the environmental permit has been destroyed, but the piers take the water at the beach site. Then, too, local civilians' lawsuits could only prevent them from destroying the High Coast of Alpine by means of a government priority investment. Bayer near Fidesz has so far been planning to break down the high shore, but now they're supposed to be building next to it, but part of the beach promenade has already been staged there and locked away from the locals. The latest tragic destruction of nature is planned in a vortex, where the rich beachside reeds and thus water quality are endangered by the wellness centre and the luxury apartments on the lake, which are to be built next to the reeds on a natural meadow. The locals are protesting here too. My question is that if, as you are often told here in the House, nature conservation is really important, the preservation of Hungary's natural heritage, then when will they act against the construction and concrete of the Lake Balaton. Thank you in advance for your reply.
u2023-05-30-168	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be heard from the Secretary of State Péter Agh. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2023-05-30-169	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Before we get involved in any way, we need to clarify the interests of the locals. On the one hand, the Balaton is a national treasure, which everyone is equally responsible for protecting. It is also understandable that Lake Balaton is by far the most popular holiday resort in Hungary, so proper infrastructure must be provided. There have been countless improvements to this in recent years. [[14.50]] Local authorities must make a decision on this matter, honourable Member. In the case of vortex, we are talking about a long-standing issue that cannot be judged on Budapest, or at least it would be unfortunate to agree on this. In its current regulatory plan, which is the part of the settlement plan adopted by a Regulation establishing the right to build, it regulates the area concerned as a general agricultural area, i.e. as an area not intended for incorporation. Your question is why the government won't stop you. If our information is correct, the municipality indicated in 2020 that it did not want to reclassify the area from agricultural land to land intended for incorporation, or did not arrange for it to be moved from the outside to the territory, the municipality did not use this option. I urge local representatives, the local public, to pursue this debate, to listen to the investor's intentions and to seek a solution that is acceptable to everyone, if they consider it eligible. One thing is certain: the government cannot support installation on the shore of Lake Balaton that is contrary to the local interest. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-30-170	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Rebecca Szabó. Here you go.
u2023-05-30-171	Thank you very much. There are certain local interests, people's opinions are not uniform, and there are public interests. I think that Balaton, the water quality of the lake, the preservation of the wildlife cannot be entrusted to a settlement alone, because we know that the installation, the reed exterminating, can damage the wildlife and weaken the immune system of the lake. You've used the word "development." I would like to point out that development is not equal to concreteisation and installation, and it is very important for you to understand it here, and also for those who want money from these investments at all costs. [[Bence Rétvári interrupts.]] and build luxury estates that ordinary people often can't even set foot on. There used to be infrastructure, there was tourism, there were campsites, and it didn't take any luxury apartments. [[Bence Rétvári: That's why there's no air conditioning on the subway!]] In addition, for example, in the case of the Battery Factory in Göd, you were able to have a say in the matter of a local government, I note in brackets [[Bence Rétvári: The interim election was a great success on the left!]] But I'd like to point out that it's possible that any modification of the OTEK connected to your ministry will allow you to install it on the vortexy plot without it. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] that the property would be included in the interior because you are responsible for this amendment to extend the farmland areas, allowing for greater integration. So you do have a role to play. [[Bence Rétvári interrupts.]]
u2023-05-30-172	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr Péter Ágh, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2023-05-30-173	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In my reply, I told you what the local government could have done and did not. I think it's pretty clear and pointed out that [[Rebecca Szabó intervenes.]] how the local government was able to deal with this issue. At the same time, I would not consider it unnecessary to listen to the views of the local people, the views of local authorities, to decide on this issue. As I said, carry out the debate on this and take decisions accordingly. We certainly have a shared responsibility to preserve the Balaton, but the locals also have a role to play in this joint work. We are confident that we can continue to do so in the future. Besides, how we can regulate architectural frameworks in the future in the right way, as I have already said in a previous reply, there will be a law on Hungarian architecture, which I am recommending to you. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-30-174	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Congressman Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question: "How could this happen, Madam Minister? It's an address. Mr President, because of the Minister's absence, Mr Répássy has given Mr Róbert the right to reply. With all due respect, you'll accept the recipient's identity.
u2023-05-30-175	Thank you, Mr. President. I think that in this case, in the Völner-Schadl case, and in the context of the appointment of executives, there are questions on which it is appropriate to wait for the Minister to be here and to be able to answer in person...
u2023-05-30-176	Thank you...
u2023-05-30-177	...so I'll wait. Thank you.
u2023-05-30-178	Thank you very much. The Minister must answer your question at the hour of the second immediate question. The next question will now be the question of the representative of the LMP faction. Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. What work have you done and what decisions have you prepared regarding water management? It's an address. Mr President, because of the Minister's absence, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári has appointed Mr Secretary of State to respond. [[On the signal of Dr. László Keresztes Lóránt:]] Thank you very much for indicating to me that you accept the person you are responding to. Congressman László Keresztes has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-05-30-179	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Water is life. This, I think, is also true of all of us, pro-government politicians, has been said in the debates over the last few weeks, but we also hear a lot about the government side and on the other hand that Hungary is a water power, while we know what challenges we are facing and what crisis we are facing in the field of water. We know what its effects are, what the tragic effects of water management on Hungary are, because at present, the essence of the valid water management concept is to get the waters out of the water as quickly as possible, so there is virtually a drying-out of Hungary, so more water flows out of the country than it arrives, and we can say that it is a national issue that we can make a fundamental change of attitude here. Here, therefore, water management for water retention must be introduced in principle, and in particular we must aim to keep water in the landscape, so we must not build concrete reservoirs, but to achieve the possibility of landscape water retention, and to develop appropriate landscape use. This is a very, very comprehensive issue in which water, agriculture and politics should generally work closely together. I think it is very positive that there have been good concepts in many places here in the last six months, we have also held debates here in Parliament, and there has been a conference on water sorting, which was hosted by the Agricultural Ministry, even if they did not attend the meeting of the Committee on Sustainable Development, and I invited the Water Election Initiative, and the Minister of Agriculture was there, and he expressed himself positively. At the same time, in addition to the fact that the aim of landscape water retention has already been published in professional speech, professional policy dialogue, it is not very visible in action and decision-making. The relative water surplus of the winter semester has been virtually carried out in the same way, and we do not yet see what is happening in the decision-making process. Therefore, my question concerns, Mr Secretary of State, to whom the new water management concept is now being developed, why not invite experts who have modeled such a water and landscape water retention concept, and there is openness from the Ministry of Interior to invite these experts [[The president's ringing the bell.]] and further discussions of a professional and policy nature will take place. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2023-05-30-180	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, the answer will be given by Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2023-05-30-181	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Thank you very much for the words of appreciation from the Member for the activities of the last six months. As you pointed out, Hungary is indeed a water power in such a way that much more water goes out of the country than it arrives, we pass on about three Balatons of water to neighbouring countries more than we get from neighbouring countries, so we have a surplus, we have a significant surplus of water, and we do not keep it, but pass it on to the neighbouring countries. That is why the work you referred to was important, which treats efficient internal drainage and water damage control with the possibilities of irrigation, water retention and retention. Eight reservoirs have been built in the past, with a maximum storage capacity of nearly 5 million cubic metres, which can be used to irrigate more than 2396 hectares of land, which can be helped effectively. This was an important step, but as mentioned, we still have a number of opportunities to keep the water with us. There were large water protection interventions at Lake Velence at Lake Fertő, Lake Balaton. In the context of the Water Framework Directive, the government adopted Hungary's third river basin management plan and the flood risk assessment and risk management plan provided for in the Flood Protection Directive. So the number of plans, concepts and action plans that have occurred in previous years is quite wide. He asked for as many people as possible to be involved in this. I think there's openness on the part of the Home Office. In the past, whether it is good cooperation with water professionals or with others, the concepts, the action plans and everything else have been prepared with them, so I can offer you this further, that we will of course continue to do so in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-30-182	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder will be given to Congressman László Keresztes.
u2023-05-30-183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I value the Secretary of State's words as an invitation. As chairman of the committee, I will be open to it, and I will also take action to create a forum for professionals who can demonstrate the concept of water retention in the countryside to be able to sit at a table with decision-makers, because it is indeed a matter of fate, and it really needs to be done immediately. [[15.00]] Mr Secretary of State knows that irrigation, which is often mentioned by the government itself in the written answers, is currently affecting 1-2 percent of the production areas, and the targets also point to 6 percent, so this will not solve this serious challenge that we are facing. I have one more question, Mr Secretary of State: the government is implementing or is planning to implement an industrial strategy that has an amazing need for water, and there is often talk about the importance of strict environmental rules. However, what happened to the CATL factory in Debrecen was that TIVIZIG had a very serious expert opinion as the administrative authority and the expert who signed it was fired. Why did this happen, Mr. Secretary? I've tried to find that out in writing from the Ministry several times. I only found out the date of the professional's termination of employment, but I think that every specialist should know why a specialist who signed an opinion drawing attention to the serious risks associated with a planned battery plant was fired. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience.
u2023-05-30-184	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder for the Secretary of State, please.
u2023-05-30-185	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Continuing the results here from two minutes: it is also important that we have built a drought monitoring system in its full name Operational Water Deficit Assessment and Forecasting System, which already has 116 stations nationwide. Last week, the Parliament began to negotiate a well amnesty on small or small wells, which legalizes wells with a depth of up to 50 meters and which meet household water requirements below the first waterproofing layer. Well, we have taken important steps in this direction. As regards the need for water for industry, honourable Member, we would first ask you to clarify that a few years ago you demanded very loudly that the green economy be launched in Hungary. You have written party programmes on green economy, renewable energy sources, battery production, electric car production, where to switch. Then came a watershed to live with your word, and suddenly passed away not the horse, but on the other side of the herd, and from that point on, I don't know if they took the battery out of their phones and their laptops. But since then, if the word "accumulator" is heard, then you will [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They'll yell out loud right there. Is it clear that their previous programs are valid, or have they been carrying rhetoric for the last year and a half? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-30-186	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Dear House, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question:, Can the Mayor's statement about the war be accepted? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. Miklós Panyi was entitled to answer. [[Mónika Dunai nods.]] Thank you very much, the Congresswoman tells me that she accepts the person who is responding. Congresswoman Mónika Dunai has the floor. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-30-187	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The renovation of metro line 3 for nearly five years and several billion forints more has finally been completed. However, despite the expectations of the Budapest people, the subway cars were not air-conditioned. Gergely Christmas, the mayor who threatened permanent bankruptcy and served Ference Gyurcsány, made an outrageous statement about this. He was trying to cover up the fact that the air conditioners didn't arrive because we were at war with Russia. I would like to enlighten Gergely Christmas that Hungary is not at war with anyone. Ladies and gentlemen, It is profoundly reprehensible and dangerous that the head of the capital is spreading lies about our country. Such statements are not unfortunate statements, which we are used to from the mayor, but statements of security policy. Such manifestations are not only self - defeating, but also amplifying pro - war foreign voices. We see that the pro-war propaganda machine of the dollar left has been working hard for months to get Hungary into the war. Ferenc Gyurcsány's men also voted against the pro-peace resolution in the Capital Assembly in exchange for the rolling dollars. This shows that Gergely Christmas and her companions are just another puppet in Gyurcsány's theater politics. The Hungarian people among them do not want to get involved in the war. They don't want Hungarian soldiers on the front. We pro-peace must do everything we can to keep our country out of this war. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State whether the Mayor's statement about the war was acceptable. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-30-188	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. State Secretary Miklós Panyi will answer the question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2023-05-30-189	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Of course, the statement by Gergely Christmas is unacceptable. A elected politician cannot make such irresponsible and serious statements, and I think that not only the pro-government voters, but even the opposition voters, agree with this. But what we expect, what we can expect from the Hungarian opposition is a good example of the great march of the Hungarian dollar left in recent months. A few months ago, the worst party financing scandal of modern-day Hungarian democracy began. The Hungarian Left received a dollar equivalent to HUF 4 billion from abroad for campaign purposes. To this day, we have not received any answers about the use of these funds. Then recently, the left-wing leader Ferenc Gyurcsány admitted in a radio interview that they were working in Brussels so that Hungary would not receive the EU funds for it. The dollar left is lobbying so that Hungarian entrepreneurs, Hungarian university students and Hungarian teachers do not receive the money they deserve. And a few weeks ago, Gergely Christmas announced that Budapest had been practically bankrupt in three and a half years. The register is empty and the recipe for Gyurcsány arrives: the austerity package, the debt and, of course, the scapegoat search. This financial and economic collapse is unprecedented in the history of Budapest within such a short period of time. Now Gergely Christmas spoke live about Hungary's war with one of the world's largest armies, Russia. The Member elected since the change of regime did not make such a serious and irresponsible statement. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] No wonder Gergely Christmas has problems with international relations, as she often even has problems with the geography of Budapest, it seems that she cannot afford to be informed about the existing advisory contracts on these topics. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to reassure you that the Hungarian government rejects the policy of the dollar left, the policy of war, austerity, debt and betrayal of national interests. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-30-190	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Miklós Panyi. I salute my fellow Members. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai for a rejoinder.
u2023-05-30-191	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I accept Mr Secretary of State's reply, but I cannot accept Mr Gergely Christmas's dangerous pro-war statements. And not only can I not accept it, but all the good Hungarians among them reject the pro-war statements that threaten the peace and security of our country. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Dr. Miklós Panyi is rising to speak.]]
u2023-05-30-192	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Nacsa Lawrence... [[For signal:]] I'm sorry, you have to answer back to Secretary Panyi. You have the floor.
u2023-05-30-193	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to make it clear that, contrary to the pro-war Hungarian left, the Hungarian government stands by its pro-peace position. The dollar left did not vote in favour of the peace resolution adopted by the Hungarian Parliament, but instead talks about arms shipments, the length of the war, the extension of penalties in Brussels. With the recent manifestation of Gergely Christmas, this attitude has also progressed; now they are talking about the war between Hungary and Russia. This is irresponsible and unacceptable, and it shows the Hungarian left's government incompetence and the need to comply with its western customers against the Hungarian national interests. The Hungarian government's clear position is that we need an immediate ceasefire and then peace talks, not the withdrawal of the conflict, not the escalation of the war. The Hungarian government will not allow the country to be forced into the war by exerting foreign pressure, even if the dollar left and Gergely Christmas are working on it and talking about it. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-30-194	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Miklós Panyi. Dear Parliament, Mr.Lőrinc Nacsa, representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, wants to ask the Prime Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr Miklós Panyi was entitled to reply. Do you accept the identity of the responder? [[Nacsa Lawrence nodds.]] I give the floor to Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. [[15.10]]
u2023-05-30-195	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. In addition to refusing to pay our country's legitimate EU funds, they want to abolish the system of unanimity, and they are trying to present a proposal for a resolution full of lies to the majority of the European Parliament. They are producing country-wide reports against us and are now demanding the abolition of the ten-year reduction. In fact, from the spring package of the so-called European Semester, presented last Wednesday, the European Commission proposed to Hungary no less than to remove the public's costs reduction and the energy support measures in force by the end of 2023. In other words, they ask with the powerful help of the Hungarian left to eliminate the reduction of the rent and make the Hungarian people's energy bills more expensive. It does so by spasmily clinging to the sanctions policy that causes immense damage to the whole Union, forcing Europe to cripple its own economy and pushing each Member State into measures that cause energy and inflation crises. And according to press reports, his own president even proposed to Ukraine to stop the Friendship oil pipeline. We are now forced to suffer the many mutiny attacks from the direction of Brussels, and they are now jealous of a unique and successful Hungarian achievement that has been helping Hungarian households and Hungarian privates for ten years to pay their bills. Let it be all over the world: the current plan of Brussels and the Hungarian left, which repeatedly challenged the reduction of the rent, had to be protected before, and this would now cost every Hungarian person, the Hungarian household, HUF 181 thousand a month. There would be more energy bills for Hungarian households if the plans of the Hungarian left and Brussels were to be implemented. I ask the Honourable Secretary of State: will the government prevent the abolition of Hungary's debt reduction achievements? Thank you for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-30-196	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I give the floor to Secretary of State Miklós Panyi.
u2023-05-30-197	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to reassure you that the government is protecting the policy of reducing the costs. I would also like to point out that Brussels does not have the right to interfere with Hungarian regulations, just as it does not have the right to remove them. At the same time, it is not surprising that Brussels bureaucrats are trying, since their domestic policy friends, the Hungarian left, are also opposed to the reduction of the rent. Ferenc Gyurcsány called it stupid in 2014, Péter Márki-Zay, the opposition's Prime Minister's candidate in last year's campaign, said that he did not want to keep the cuts in this form, but according to Márton Tompos, Member of the Momentum, the reduction is a political product that quoted socialist times and completely ignored any market logic. But let's not forget the times before 2010. Between 2002 and 2010, left-wing governments raised their shares 15 times and all their decisions were in favour of foreign-owned service providers. Twofold increase in electricity and threefold increase in the price of residential natural gas. Compared to salaries, the price of gas and electricity was the most expensive for Hungarian families throughout the European Union. This is the programme of the dollar left, and if the Hungarian left were to take power, they would certainly eliminate the reduction of the rent and fully serve the demands of Brussels and the multi-company companies, as they did between 2002 and 2010. On the other hand, the primary objective of the civil national government is to protect Hungarian families, to preserve jobs, the value of pensions and to reduce the costs, even in the midst of prolonged war and the energy crisis with sanctions. In this spirit, the budget for 2024 was also drawn up. Honourable Congressman, I would therefore like to confirm that the Hungarian Government will not give in to the pressure of the Commission and will protect the results of the reduction of the energy bills of millions of Hungarian households. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-30-198	Thank you very much. I'll ask Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2023-05-30-199	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. The coordinated attack on the Hungarian left and Brussels bureaucracy has been quite amazing for many times against the achievements of the reduction of the rent. They do so by knowing precisely that this is a huge help for Hungarian families, which has been held for ten years and which is provided by the Hungarian government to all Hungarian households during a prolonged war, during an energy crisis and despite the adverse effects of sanctions. The series of attacks that were launched in this case was amazing, they raised the energy prices themselves, last year their Prime Minister candidate said that he would abolish the reduction of the rent, he thought it was unnecessary. That is what Ferenc Gyurcsány said earlier. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary of State, that the Hungarian people can only count on Fidesz-KDNP, if it were up to the left, they would have a multiple energy bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-30-200	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. The Secretary of State shall also have a rejoinder.
u2023-05-30-201	Thank you for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Once again, I would like to stress that the Government rejects the Commission's proposal and the Hungarian Government remains committed to a sovereign Hungarian energy policy and security of energy supply. A lot has happened in the spirit of this over the past 13 years, which is why the Hungarian state has bought back strategic gas storage facilities from foreign ownership, because before 2010, the winter gas supply of the country was not safe, and these storage facilities were owned by foreign owned companies. This is also why we have bought back a significant proportion of MOL shares, and we are also committed to maintaining nuclear power and Paks II to ensure the stability of our energy security. in addition to its construction, which is drilled by the Hungarian opposition by all means, both abroad and domestically. In order to strengthen Hungarian energy sovereignty and to protect Hungarian households, we will therefore continue to protect the protective measures introduced since 2013, and in this context we will also ensure the operation of the Rezségvédelmi Fund. Thank you for the floor. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-30-202	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Miklós Panyi. That was the last immediate question. Dear Parliament, In accordance with our agreed agenda, we will now take a 16-hour break. (Sunning: 15.16 16.02) President: Mr Sándor Lezsák Note: Béla Mihálffy and Dezső Trusted)
u2023-05-30-203	Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. A political debate on the organisation of the wages of Hungarian workers, which was initiated by György László Lukács and his fellow Members. Opinion on the initiative of the political debate V/3987 Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, I would ask Mr Béla Mihálffy to explain the course of the political debate.
u2023-05-30-204	Dear Parliament, First, the statement of the representative of the Government takes place in a 40-minute period, followed by the opening speech by the author in a 20-minute period, followed by a speech by the lead speakers of each political group in 10-10 minutes, followed by the first independent Member. After that, further speeches are possible within the remaining timeframe, and then the author's closing will take place within a 20-minute timeframe. Finally, the representative of the Government will respond in 20 minutes to what has been said in the debate.
u2023-05-30-205	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Allow me to remind you of the main rules of the time-frame debate. The speaking time of the member of the Government who spoke during the debate is expected to be in the time of the pro-government factions. In the meantime, two-minute speeches, with the exception of responding to personal concerns, should be included in the timeframe. Point of order speeches are not included in the time frame. I would like to inform you that, if the EP representative made his statement through the head of the group, his speech will be included in the speaking time of the group which announced it as a speaker. Where he has made a direct application, his statement shall not be included in the time frame and shall be granted a speaking time equal to the speaking time per independent Member. On the meeting room information board, interested parties can monitor the use of time frames. Before we begin the debate, I would like to ask Mr Dezső Reliable to explain the time frame.
u2023-05-30-206	Dear Parliament, The distribution of the recommended 4 hour time frame is as follows. The Fidesz Group has 81 minutes, 39 minutes for the KDNP Group, 23 minutes for the DK Group, 18 minutes for the Momentum Group, 18 minutes for the MSZP Group, 16 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 14 minutes for the Group of Hungary, 14 minutes for the Dialogue Group, 13 minutes for the LMP Group and 4 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 10-10 minutes lead speakers.
u2023-05-30-207	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, First, the government's statement takes place in a 40-minute timeframe. I give the floor to State Secretary Sándor Czomba, State Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Development. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2023-05-30-208	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, From 2010 onwards, Hungary has implemented a successful employment turnaround that is unprecedented in more than three decades since the change of regime. In terms of employment, we have caught up with Member States' rankings from the EU's driving force, while reducing unemployment to record low levels. Since 2010, the rate of employment expansion in Hungary has been the most dynamic in Europe, as a result of which domestic employment has reached the highest level since the change of system. The employment level of the population aged 20-64 has improved by 21.4 percentage points since the government change in 2010, and the employment rate above 80 percent is by far above the EU average, with Hungary moving from the last place in the national ranking to the seventh place. This performance should be compared with the labour market processes during the period of socialist governments. Hungary became the EU's driving force in employment between 2002 and 2010, while the European employment level improved by 2.1 percentage points during this period. In Hungary, employment levels of 20-64-year-olds decreased by 1.5 percentage points between 2002 and 2010, from 61.4 percent to 59,9 percent, whereas they improved by 21,4 percentage points since 2010. The workforce for economically active employment has also increased by more than half a million since 2010. There have never been so many workers who want to work and are actively seeking jobs in the Hungarian labour market. While the Hungarian activity index was the second lowest in the European Union at the beginning of 2010, Hungary is now in the first half of the ranking of the Member States in this respect, now exceeding the EU average. Dear Parliament, The number of people employed has therefore increased by around 1 million since the government change in 2010, which has led to the fact that the number of registered jobseekers was no longer over 600 thousand, with the high unemployment rate before 2010, but we are facing a labour shortage, which is a major challenge for the Hungarian employment policy, as was the creation of 1 million new jobs. For more than six months, 4.7 million people have been employed in Hungary, and in 2010 it was only 3.7 million. In the years 2002-2010, the economic activity of the working age population has not been able to catch up with the average of EU Member States. Hungary was the last in Europe at both times. On the other hand, there has been unprecedented progress in encouraging employment during 13 years of governance. Since 2010, the government has developed and implemented a number of measures that have encouraged increased job search and return to the labour market for the domestic inactive labour reserve. Public employment programmes, which have been criticised several times by opposition representatives, after 2010, have also played a significant role in the return of previously inactive layers to the world of work and have started to engage in employment. A significant proportion of them then managed to find permanent employment in the domestic primary labour market, which enabled one of the most disadvantaged to further improve their income position in the Hungarian labour market. [[16.10]] The fundamental condition of the country's economic catch-up is that the growth of the Hungarian economy should continue to exceed the European average. Maintaining a high level of employment and providing the workforce for economic growth is therefore a top priority in the governance strategy. Therefore, the government intends to further improve Hungary's ability to attract capital and to increase the number of Hungarian jobs by hundreds of thousands by 2030. The two key tasks ahead of employment policy are to stimulate job creation and to ensure the labour needs of the business sector. Honourable Members, Last week, the general debate on the law on migrant workers began in Parliament. In my opening speech, I also made it clear that the government's aim was to give work primarily to Hungarians, when the Hungarian working hand is run out, to fill up vacancies with neighbouring countries, and if there is no longer a job available, then workers can arrive from third countries. One of the most important tasks and objectives of the government is the protection of Hungarian jobs. It is not, therefore, that these workers would arrive in Hungary in order to break down Hungarian wages or to take away the work of Hungarians. On the contrary, they are needed in order to protect Hungarian jobs, and in contrast to claims received from the air, businesses cost much more employment than the Hungarian labour force. Dear Parliament, As regards the issue of emigration, I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is also a turnaround regarding the return of Hungarian citizens. In the period after the change of government in 2010, the return of Hungarian citizens born in Hungary was revived. While only 1,600 people returned to Hungary in 2010, the number of Hungarian citizens returning to Hungary amounted to 36,000 in the last year, which is the highest number so far. In particular, the number of Hungarian citizens born in Hungary was 22 thousand and 14 thousand born abroad. Overall, between 2010 and 2022 195 000 returned from abroad to Hungary, 110,000 men and 85 thousand women. Most people came home from Austria, 50,000 from Germany, and 40,000 from the United Kingdom have been returning to Hungary since 2010. From the second half of the last decade there has been a lasting change in the international migration of Hungarian citizens, which means that every year after 2015, the number of people returning to Hungary exceeds those leaving abroad. In the last seven years, the migration balance indicated a surplus of nearly 60,000 people, i.e. an average of 8 thousand more Hungarian citizens return home than are emigrated every year. Honourable Members, In addition to job creation, the Hungarian government's primary goal is to continuously increase wages back home, and everyone can ensure a safe living for their families. The government, in cooperation with the social partners, has made considerable efforts to raise wages and encourage employment. The rapid wage increase in recent years has increased labour supply and has also encouraged the return of those working abroad. Two important indicators of social ascent indicate that much more people live on labour income in Hungary than before the 2010 government change, and those who work earn significantly more than ever since the change of regime. Real income has increased significantly in recent years. There are several components to this. On the one hand, the significant growth in the economy, which already provides workers with more and more income, and on the other hand, the government's tax policy, as the single-key tax also supports the increase in real income, which is further promoted by family tax incentives and other tax incentives. The government therefore established a work-based society instead of a welfare-based society that protects the interests of the Hungarian economy and the Hungarian people. I would point out that the biggest reduction in the tax wedge in Hungary has been in the European Union since 2009, mainly due to a reduction in taxes and levies on employers. This reduction has substantially supported wage growth in Hungary: the social contribution tax has decreased from 27 percent to 11.5 percentage points by 2020 and by an additional 2.5 percentage points by 22 percentage points, and the VET contribution tax has been absorbed, thus reducing the socho to less than half, to 13 percent overall. The left has made it clear that it does not support the increase in wages either. Tax reductions on all labour have been rejected in budgetary votes and on other occasions, and no subsidies have been granted for public sector wage increases. The left would continue the same economic policy as under its governance, but they did not protect the jobs and incomes of Hungarian people, and they gave up our country's economic sovereignty. In doing so, one million people were unemployed, and because they were all subject to foreign profits, Hungarian workers often worked for humiliatingly low wages. The salaries were hit by high taxes, wages were frozen throughout the sectors, even one month's wages were taken from the public service workers, and hundreds of thousands were not regretted. Dear Parliament, The government is on the side of Hungarian workers and is working to ensure that everyone can manage in Hungary. In the case of minimum mandatory wages, the government has always relied on employers' and employees' bargaining, which is what it has in mind when defining them. In line with the objective, the gross amount of the minimum wage increased by 16 percent to 232 thousand forints from the beginning of 2023, taking into account the agreement between the social partners. This is much more than three times the level of 73 500 HUF in 2010, about 216 percent higher. The guaranteed wage minimum increased by 14 percent from the same date to 296 400 HUF, which exceeds the HUF 89 500 in 2010, by 231 percent, i.e. nearly two and a half times. I would like to point out that, from 2002 to 2010, during socialist-liberal governments, the gross minimum wage increased by only 47 percent over eight years. The real value of the minimum wage has thus only increased to a minimal extent and even decreased for workers with children, as the socialist government has basically abolished the tax relief for children. Between 2002 and 2010, our country increased the minimum wage to the lowest extent from the Visegrad countries, measured in purchasing power parities and in euros. Honourable Members, Average wages have also increased steadily in Hungary, the increase in gross average earnings has reached 155 per cent from 2010 to 2022, while net average earnings have increased by 159 per cent without taking into account family benefits and by 168 per cent. The rise in real earnings without discounts was 71 percent in Hungary, with discounts included 77 percent in Hungary. From 2002 to 2010, during socialist-liberal governments, in eight years, gross average earnings increased by only 65% and real earnings increased by only 13.8 percent. There was no family discount at that time. So less than 14 percent real wage growth in eight years, 77 percent in 12 years. You can feel the difference between the two numbers, can't you? If we proportional these numbers, it's three and a half times the difference. Average earnings have also increased steadily in the competitive sector. The increase in gross average earnings from 2010 to 2022 reached 152.4 per cent, while the increase in net average earnings reached 160 per cent without any discounts. During these 12 years, the real value of net earnings in the competition sector increased by 71,6 percent, measured without any discounts. The government also prioritises the steady rise in wages in the public sector. The increase in gross average earnings from 2010 to 22 exceeded 153 per cent, while the increase in net average earnings reached 151 per cent without any discounts. Thus, over 12 years, the real value of net earnings in the public sector increased by 66 percent, measured without benefits. [[16.20]] If we put the average earnings in an international context, it can be said that based on Eurostat data, there was a real rise in earnings across the European Union in 2022 only in Poland and Bulgaria. With the growth rate seen in our country, we also prevent the Czech Republic, Poland, Slovenia and Slovakia from among the Central European countries. In the European Union's comparison, Hungary was in 22nd place in the order of gross average earnings in euro and in the second place in the Czech Republic in the V4s. In some countries, the standard of living that is actually available is rather determined by actions expressed in terms of purchasing power, which also shows how much goods and services can be purchased by workers from actions measured in euro. On the basis of the EU order at purchasing power parities, Hungary was 19th in 2022, and the second among the V4 in Poland. Dear Parliament, The war and the failed sanctions policy have led to unprecedented inflation across Europe. The government's aim is to prevent recession and reduce sanctioned inflation to one digit by the end of the year. This is how families, pensions, pensioners, jobs, full employment can be protected. In January inflation peaked, and in April it reached 24 percent, according to the latest data from the HCSO. This is 1.7 percentage points more favourable than the January summit. Thus inflation is decreasing, the dynamics of decline are accelerating; the process is intensifying even more in the second half of the year. The trendy and increasing inflation decline is well illustrated by the evolution of food inflation, the level of which is already nearly 7 percentage points more favourable than the peak seen last December. It is also encouraging that, in April 2023, the price of more food has already fallen compared to the previous month, with lower prices for fuels and domestic energy. In order to reduce inflation as quickly as possible and as much as possible, it will become a single digit by the end of the year, the government will introduce two new instruments that will generate significant competition in the retail sector, thus giving an additional boost to the decline in food prices. From June 1st, mandatory action starts, so every week customers will be able to buy a grocery basket of 20 products in a particular store, which they can buy cheaper than before. From 1 July, the online price monitoring system will be launched, making the most favourable prices available to everyone on a daily and business basis for more than 60 product products. In this difficult situation, the financial stability of households, as well as the security of housing, must be preserved. The government therefore decided to introduce a retail interest stop in January 2022 and then extended it several times to protect households against the negative effects of a high yield environment. The extension of the interest rate stop in the second half of 2023 could result in an additional savings of HUF 60 billion for families, which is why they have to pay less repayment costs due to the measure. Dear Parliament, The Hungarian government is therefore continuing to work to protect jobs, and the actions should continue to rise in Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-30-209	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Sándor Czomba. The opening speech will now take place, which will be presented by two speakers within a total period of 20 minutes. First, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian.
u2023-05-30-210	Mr President, Dear House, If someone has listened to Mr. Secretary's exposé, perhaps he may have thoughts that everything is basically fine in Hungary, that he thinks things are going well, that there may be minor bumps, and that he will find those external circumstances in terms of various sources, such as sanctions or armed conflict, which undoubtedly have an impact on Hungary's life. But the Hungarian wage issue is such a difficult question because the undisputed negative effects were placed on a terriblely bad, low base, and Hungary's Government has encountered many challenges that it simply could not interpret, let alone manage. He has encountered a demographic vacuum situation, where, despite a number of undoubtedly grouped sources, unfortunately, he can only produce results of a cosmetic nature in terms of key indicators. From a very bad, very negative situation before 2010, we managed to get back to a weak average situation based on demographic indicators. Since then, a halt has occurred, and the possibility of reproduction or self - maintenance is far from ours. Unfortunately, we haven't come close to that in a year or two. The same challenge emerged from the spiral of emigration, where hundreds of thousands of our countrymen were forced to leave their homeland in order to achieve higher wages, trying to thrive elsewhere. I was first intimidated by the words of the Secretary of State by those who spoke of the alleged reversal of the migration balance, while we all know that countless of our countrymen, especially commuters, especially those working abroad from coercion, do not rip up the wires or give up their identity cards. A lot of people at home don't even announce that forced, let's say, their exchange of foreign currency loans will be repaid from a higher income realised in a Western European slaughterhouse. So you can produce statistics in this direction, it may not be worth it. At the same time, we can see the difficulties faced by the Hungarian population in London, Germany, Austria, and how much more advantageous a situation he is trying to cope with, but not in his home country. Thirdly, what we see is that, instead of trying to get as many of our countrymen home with a motivational programme as possible to thrive in their homeland, the organised import of migrant workers is the third major challenge, which appeared before all countries in the region, but the Government of Hungary does not seem to be a valid counterweight to the masses working in the Philippines, Indonesia, Vietnam and Mongolia, although its national consultation has rejected immigration of a living nature, I add: rightly. At the same time, we see that the government has often been accused of trying to compete here with two competitive advantages in the region. One of these is the flexible labour law of the extremely bad Hungarian working conditions, and the other is the rather low Hungarian wages, and in terms of both competition factors, this government has not been able to make any meaningful progress, and unfortunately this is what they want to compete with. They really imagine Hungary's future to have working capital come here because wages are low, and because Hungarian workers can be forced to do a lot of things. And if a crowd of migrant workers arrive, even this low wage can be reduced, broken down or even worse working conditions can be forced on our fellow Hungarians still here. Overall, therefore, the tasks are also visible. In terms of real wages, I would like to make so many adjustments, Mr State Secretary, that, to my knowledge, the value of payments has been reduced for the seventh month. Meanwhile, what is extra irritating in these months and especially in the crisis months is the extra penalty tax burden on family members, children's educators. The EU record rate of 27 per cent VAT on child-rearing articles has also led to a situation where an average partner of ours, who has raised a child, has already paid more VAT into the budget than he receives from it in the form of a family allowance under subjective law. And it's a symbolic turning point when the child's educator is already supporting the budget with more than he's getting from there on the subject. This is an untenable situation, so if not elsewhere, they should at least facilitate the situation of more children in these times, with the immediate VATonulisation of basic foods, including articles on child rearing. Overall, we can say that solutions to both demographic and pension-like challenges can only be achieved by a concept for normal wages, so that the community of Jobbik-Conservatives has previously taken the EU's initiative, now extending its concept of normal wages clearly to enable everyone to thrive in their homeland so that no one is forced to leave this country. We had three trips to the table to the representatives of the government, and we proposed three hubs of solutions. Each one is self-evident and would help with the wage issue, but so far none of these three solutions have been, let alone not done by the government, nor shared their point of view. We mentioned the multi-enterprises for which the import of migrant workers is also organised for the sake of their labour hunger. With these, the government has typically concluded strategic contracts, but, at the same time, by reviewing these strategic agreements, we have not found a pass indicating at least a slow approximation of Hungarian wages towards the European average. [[16.30]] And we do not want to relive it to its political science-fiction field, at least we would like to see wage growth as permitted by productivity growth, but this has not even happened in recent years; for some countries, there has been a slow gap between the wage level there and the wage level here. Especially freaky, even for me, to listen to the predictions that we may be able to reach Austria's standards by 2030. In the past, we were faced with very, very irritating, insatiable speeches entitled "You can open a pastry shop in Vienna" and Hungarian citizens have been involved in such a general government scam for over 30 years, as promises that may be familiar from an earlier era of ominous memory may always come: now pull the belt together, but it will be better later. On the other hand, the community of Jobbik-Conservatives proposes an active and courageous confrontation and search for solutions, not excuses. I said the first thing: renegotiate strategic contracts with the multi-enterprises, establish at least a slow approximation of Hungarian wages not to the Luxembourg, not to the German, but to the European average. Secondly, from the Hungarian SME sector, I would like to say that we do not demand extra burdens, we do not ask for any effort to produce, say, the costs of the wage level increased by 1.5 times over the last few years, and to do so, we need a fund in which we can channel cohesion resources, the future release of EU funds. However, in order for these to be freed up, it would require a whole different kind of government economic policy, attitude and rhetoric. However, we recommend the creation of a wage development fund to which Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises can turn, which supports their wage development, because we should not forget that they are responsible for about two thirds of the Hungarian jobs, they carry the national economy on their backs, and they are the ones we can count on in the face of all the difficulties. Thirdly, there is also the government's field of action in such a way that it does not have to wait for anyone, an external force, or a change in international positions of power, because within the public sphere, a concept of wage development can begin at any time on its own. And we see in the budget that this resources are available, given, in the order of about a thousand billion-dollar magnitude, the unexpected additional VAT revenue, plus tax revenue, with which the government can manage, and which could be used for wage development if it had such an intention. Overall, we must say that, in contrast to the demographic vacuum, the already mentioned import of migrant workers cannot be a solution, and here we have put three proposals on the table in order to consolidate and reverse the situation. We demand that only a company that employs at least 90% of the Hungarian taxpayers' money, typically Hungarian citizens, can receive non-refundable state aid once again. It is obvious that the migrant-worker theme will stay with us for a very long time, but a philosophical basis may be to support the creation and preservation of jobs from the tax forints of Hungarian people only and exclusively, which enrich Hungarian families and help Hungarian families to thrive in the homeland. It is unrealistic and unsustainable to give such a competitive advantage only to multi-companies employing migrant workers, and not to Hungarian small businesses. Secondly, we also demand that an employer, if he brought a guest worker from the third world, not only confirms before him that he could not find a Hungarian worker, but also that he could not retrain his already existing Hungarian workforce, because it is terribly irritating to see that even in small settlements in Somogy there are hundreds of Filipino migrant workers, where there is also an inactive Hungarian population of working age in the county, while the government does not pay enough attention to their free training. Thirdly, we suggest that Hungarian jobseekers should be the first in Hungary in this case, so that there should be a fund for free re-training that examines the multi-company and the job to which they want to bring a migrant worker, and examines whether they have the same job among the Hungarian inactive who can be trained free of charge and using the right motivations. So let the Hungarian worker, the Hungarian small enterprise, be the first in Hungary, and we can say for sure that without the concept of normal wages, it cannot be helped to thrive in the homeland. If we do not achieve this, the emigration spiral will not slow down, the demographic vacuum will not calm down, and Hungary will move towards isolation in both economic and national strategy terms, and we cannot tolerate this. In the Hungarian Parliament, I do not believe that a representative who quietly assists in this process can sit. I am sure that everyone wants to improve this situation, but the basic and entry category of this is the adoption of the 3+3 proposal just presented, but at least that we get a government position on why this government wants to push the Hungarian future forward, why it will not start dealing with national fate issues. Until we get an answer, it is very difficult to take the government's statistics and production reports seriously. In order to be able to hold a serious debate on these issues, we need to talk about national issues that have been sorely set aside in recent years. And this debate day is perfectly suitable for us to finally unravel them and to have a constructive, productive but honest debate about all of this. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2023-05-30-211	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. I now give the floor to Congressman László György Lukács.
u2023-05-30-212	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, We are a generation of the European Union. I base this on the fact that we all have a crucial experience in our lives in addition to the change of system, that our country has joined the European Union. The EU's accession and its promise was therefore what defined our lives: if you are anyone, if you work hard, if you are not lazy, if you use the Hungarian willpower within you, you can be someone, you can earn a decent living, you can live in a Western standard of living without any obstacles. And what we had most important hope was that even if I didn't succeed, I'm sure my children will succeed. Perhaps that was the most important thing for many of us, and that is the most important thing today, so if our children can live freely and function fairly on the basis of their abilities, then we are happy. It must be stated that this desire, this dream, that we will still have the Hungarian wage of Western quality, that we will experience the experience of getting decent wages for decent, honest work, has vanished. It must therefore be stated that the current Fidesz government, with its 17 years, could not fulfill the Hungarian desire, the desire to earn normal wages in a normal country, which is rooted in the change of regime, which is fulfilled by EU accession. Yes, we need to talk about the 17 years when Viktor Orbán was the miniszer-president of Hungary, about the Hungarian staff running in the last 30 years, which was reflected in low wages. A memorable moment in government, when the Prime Minister, in the company of Hungarian-Arabic businessmen and politicians and diplomats, listed Hungary's geographical location, advanced logistics network, well-built motorways and surprisingly inexpensive labour force compared to its quality, and the fact that the Code of Work is extremely flexible. What every worker considers to be a Hungarian disadvantage, the Prime Minister sees it as an advantage in favour of the exploitation of Hungarian workers. This sharp opposition has remained, and our country is, in fact, a country of well-trained but underpaid workers. And the current government's policy is also worrying about what it thinks about the Hungarian future, the future and the wages of the workers, because it has two messages. One: the vision of battery factories and migrant workers is the country's main route, where cheaply employed Eastern migrant workers crowd out workers and keep them low, if you like, underbidding the wages of Hungarian workers, so the chances of catching up are off the rails. Another worrying message: the current Prime Minister actually wants to drive our country out of our European community of security [[Csaba Dömötör: Oh!]] Why else would he go against the European community, risk raising the wages of teachers, and why else would he show his support for Putin overcome the disapproval of our allies, and why else would he be friends with other leaders like him? It is important to see that the government machinery is ready to move away from the EU in 2030 at the latest: the legal system is ready, the atmosphere is built, the private equity funds are saving EU and state resources, if you like, the boys are ready to leave, they are determined to put our country back on the losing side of history. And let us not forget what the Prime Minister said about the new generation: he plans until 2060, but he forgot to say that all this is outside the EU. [[16.40]] Even if they deny their intention here or there, we know that cutting off the mule's ear doesn't make him a horse. It must be said that the current Fidesz government's vision of the Hungarian people is to work cheaply with little labour rights, deprived of their self-esteem and self-esteem. Let's not forget, until 2060 this promise is offered to people, and everything seems to be on track in this direction. No wonder László Parragh, Chairman of the Chamber of Industry, who is in a luxury hour of 11 million, said the other day, does not want to try what it is like to make a living as a teacher for 300,000 forints. But let us also remember when the current President of the Republic, Katalin Novak, wrote: "I am grateful to the fate that we are not driven from home by the coercion that we are not living as hospital nurses or educators with ridiculous incomes. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, But of course, the situation is even more serious, because something has been achieved instead of the wages union, and this is the union of prices, because instead of Western wages, Hungarians can buy at Western prices. Moreover, due to the catastrophic government economic policy of recent months, we are now at the point of saying that food prices in Hungary have increased rapidly and to the greatest extent, and that the overall price increase is a European record. VAT is Europe's record, and it is one of Europe's most modest wages, which Hungarians get every month. It is clear that the Hungarian communist-style price cap farming has failed, and most of the measures taken have actually increased inflation, caused a deficit economy, and are making people poorer. People are angry, and lousy wages consume abnormal inflation in Orbán. Of course, many people think that this is okay. So they comfort themselves by saying that what we lost in the fire we could still find in the ashes. But they're wrong, the precious one doesn't dilate, and the years we've spent hanging on the low wage at high prices are not returned by anyone, nor by the owners of the castles, nor by the good soul, by the national cashier, by Lőrinc. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to speak briefly about one area: it is a matter of health. One of the biggest delays in the years after the change of regime was the health and social sphere. It took a long time for a consensus to finally start wages and catch up in the health field. It is to be welcomed that doctors from healthcare workers have already reached the point where they can work for decent wages and if they are not working for a European wage level, but for wages that are close to that. But we have plenty of work to do with everyday health workers, those who stand by Hungarian sickbeds, those who maintain health care, those who provide technical conditions. For them, this year, there will be only one increase in wages that does not reach general inflation, nor will they get it backwards. It is therefore clear that Hungary needs very much progress in this area in consensus. Ladies and gentlemen, The Jobbik-Conservatives believe in a robust, well-funded public health care system, which requires an increase in domestic health wages, and we need the support of the European Community and the security that the European Community can give us. Ladies and gentlemen, It was therefore a crucial moment in our lives for EU accession. However, it remains a crucial experience of our lives that until now, we have not been able, and no political force has been able to achieve, the promise that Hungarians will get a decent salary for decent work, that we will catch up with Western prices, that Hungarian wages will catch up with the prices they have faced. It is not normal for someone in the country to go from Szabolcs to Szombathely, and it is not normal for families to break up because of that. The vision of normal Hungary, fair wage catch-up in the European Union and in Hungary are represented by Jobbik-Conservatives. What they say is that a very simple question about wage catching up is that you just have to know how to fire a gun, that's not a big science. The start is now, fellow Members. For a normal Hungary, and for normal wages, as right-wing opponents, we wish to express our demands bravely, with a fair and reasonable debate, and to do so to catch up on the Hungarian wage. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2023-05-30-213	Thank you very much, Congressman László György Lukács. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Erik Bánki, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2023-05-30-214	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I must respond to the speech by my fellow Member, Mr László Lukács, who, although expressing his fantasies, seems to know better what Fidesz has planned, what the Fidesz government has planned for Hungary's role in the European Union and its future than we do. The Prime Minister himself said on several occasions, perhaps a few weeks ago, that Hungary is and will remain a member of the European Union. As long as the European Union acts as a community of sovereign nation states under its Statute, it remains, my fellow Members, not as you wish, among other things, and your socialist friends, to create a large united, united, United States-like Europe, a united Europe where the sovereignty of nation states does not interest the leaders of the European Commission, where small states cannot fight for their own rights, because the great ones decide everything for them. That is what you want, Congressman, both you and your fellow Members on the left. But let's look at today's debate. Since 2010, the civilian government led by Fidesz, in cooperation with industry partners, has made significant efforts to raise wages and encourage employment, which has even increased with the introduction of family tax incentives. The rapid rise in wages in recent years has increased labour supply and encouraged the return of those working abroad. The two important indicators of social ascension indicate that much more people live on income in Hungary today than before the 2010 government change, and those who work earn significantly more than those of left-wing governments. Real income has been increasing significantly for years, which means, fellow Members, that workers can buy more goods from their income received. There are several components to this. On the one hand, the significant improvement and growth of the economy, which already provides more and more income for workers, and on the other hand, the government's tax policy, as there is a single, 15 percent, uniquely low level of personal income tax system in Hungary today. For family members, the annual increase in the rate of family tax relief also leaves an ever higher income for Hungarian families. In the competitive sector, the demand for the Hungarian labour force plays an increasing role in wage formation, while increasing the mandatory wage levels, which is why companies are raising salaries to a large extent. If you have looked at it, ladies and gentlemen, not only has the wage level of the competition sector reached the level of the public sector sooner in the past ten years, but it has now significantly exceeded what I think is a good process and it shows that the value of the Hungarian workforce is constantly increasing and there is an increasing demand for it in the economy. Dear House, With the support of the Fidesz fraction, the government has made the highest wage increase in health care since 2010, increasing the wages of nurses and doctors at a more rapid rate, thereby achieving the greatest increase in medical wages ever. At the same time, the system of gratuity money has been abolished, which has been depressing Hungarian society for decades. The wages of doctors and specialists increased by 43 percent between 2021-23, so the wages of doctors increased by 43 percent over two years. In addition, the gross basic salary of a doctor working 41 years today is more than HUF 2.5 million, my fellow Members. This wage barely exceeded 260,000 forints in 2010, so doctors' wages increased more than ten times, at least the wages of doctors working long hours. Nurses still earn more than three times today, and specialists earn five or even nine times what they earned in 2010 as a result of the economic policy of left-wing governments before the change of government. We appreciate and recognise the sacrifice of health workers and healthcare workers, their extraordinary role in society, and we are constantly looking for the possibility of increasing the wages of all health workers. Since 2010, the national government has been constantly reducing labour taxes. In the public sector, we have launched comprehensive wage-raising programmes and helped businesses with tax reductions, including wage increases. The Hungarian government protects the interests of the Hungarian economy and the Hungarian people instead of a welfare-based society, which indicated the period of the socialists' government, and we have created a work-based society. Ladies and Gentlemen, The left has made it clear that it does not support wage growth. All tax reductions on work have been rejected in budgetary votes and on other occasions, and no support has been granted for wage increases for teachers, health workers, police officers, soldiers and other public service workers. [[16.50]] The left would pursue the same misguided economic policy as he did during his governance in the period 2002-2010. They did not defend the Hungarian people's jobs and incomes while giving up our country's economic sovereignty. In doing so, one million people were unemployed, and because they were all subject to foreign profits, Hungarian people often had to work for humiliatingly low wages. Pays were hit by high taxes, wages were frozen across sectors, and even from public service workers, such as teachers, doctors and even pensioners, they took a 13th month's wage. Nor did they regret that the measures had caused hundreds of thousands of aids in these times. During left-wing governments, the personal income tax system punished additional work with a high tax rate, but even the lower rate was higher than the current uniform VAT rate of 15%. [[Sic!]] . In 2009, the majority on the left voted for the definition of the super-brutto tax base here in Parliament, thus imposing additional burdens on working Hungarian people and Hungarian families. On the other hand, the current government has led the super-grossing in two steps, introducing a fairer, single-key tax system that rewards extra work at a level of 16 per cent and then 15 per cent later. Left-wing governments have only taken money from families, honourable Members. During their government, the amount of family tax incentives has been steadily reduced. By 2010, the shameful thing happened was that the last budget submitted by the Bajnai government and adopted by the socialists amounted to HUF 12,6 billion, ladies and gentlemen! By contrast, in 2021, during the Orbán government, the rate of family tax relief was above HUF 310 billion in the Hungarian national budget, which will continue to increase this year. In the whole European Union, ladies and gentlemen, if we look at the level of support for families as a proportion of GDP, we have the highest tax support in Hungary, as it exceeds 4 percent of the gross domestic product in Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, this means that the rate of support for families has increased more than 25 times over 13 years. In addition to the renewal of the family tax relief, the benefit of the first married couple was introduced, and mothers with four or more children will be exempt from personal income tax for the rest of their lives. In 2023, benefits for families were increased with the benefit of mothers under the age of 30, while young people's access to higher wages was supported by the personal income tax exemption of young people under the age of 25. In addition, the minimum wage in Hungary today is higher than the average wage in socialist governments. Dear Parliament, In 2010, Hungary implemented a successful employment turnaround that has been unprecedented for more than three decades since the change of regime. This has brought Hungary close to full employment, and even maintaining economic growth above the EU average is slowly facing labour barriers. In terms of employment, we have caught up in the top of the Member States' rankings from the EU's rush position, while unemployment levels have fallen to record low levels. Since the change of government in 2010, more than one million people have worked in Hungary than before, and the potential workforce reserve has fallen to less than half, to 240 thousand people. What I can therefore tell you, ladies and gentlemen, is the results that the Hungarian Government has made in terms of developing the Hungarian economy, creating jobs, raising wages, supporting families, an example to be recognised. I ask you to complete the obstructive policy that has been followed over the past ten years, when no measure has been voted out here in Parliament that would serve the interests of Hungarian families, Hungarian workers. Change this policy and support the government's efforts in this regard and its proposals. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-30-215	Thank you very much, Congressman Bánki. Before I give the floor to Congresswoman Olga Kálmán, the lead speaker of the DK Group will take her place in the pulpit! I have an announcement to read. Dear Parliament, Ferenc Gyurcsány, head of the DK Group, informed me that he would hand over three minutes of the time frame set for the Democratic Coalition Group to independent MEP Ferenc Varga. I would ask the staff to modify the timeframes as announced. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Kálmán Olga. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Is he the better man? Dr. Brenner Koloman: You've never been better. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2023-05-30-216	Thank you, Mr. President. Remember? In 2017, Venice, a well-placed Fidesz faction meeting, the Prime Minister presented his 12-year-old, rather optimistic vision for three government cycles. He outlined that by 2030, Austria will be overtaken by our country. The grand plan was drawn from economic growth data, adding that these brilliantly good indicators are due to unorthodox economic measures after 2010. Well, Viktor Orbán is a vatesz, a real psychic. In 2017, so six years ago, he knew precisely that our country would outrun Austria. Let's forgive him for being wrong about one thing, not by 2030, but by 2023, we have not only caught up with Austria, but we have actually prevented it, just like the rest of the EU. This Hungarian miracle is a real Hungaricum; it is called inflation in Orbán. Yeah, we outrun Austria in food prices. Due to inflation in Orbán, Hungarian food prices doubled in two years, and there was no such increase anywhere in the EU. As long as they are first in prices, we are among the last in the EU in wages. Even Romanian wages have preceded Hungarians, only Bulgarians earn less than Hungarians. An average European citizen earns three times as much as a Hungarian, but an Austrian, for example, makes five times as much. Today, Hungarians should pay the highest prices in Europe from one of Europe's lowest salaries. This is not because Hungarians work less or worse. No! This is because the Hungarian government has built the Hungarian economic policy on cheap labour. The Orbán government does not see low Hungarian wages as a problem to be solved, but as a positive and desirable thing to attract Chinese battery factories, assembly plants and low-value, low-value investments in Hungary. Orbán inflation is three times the EU average and four times the euro area average. While according to Eurostat, inflation in Orbán is 24.5 per cent, the second worst is Latvia's inflation is only 15 per cent. Orbán inflation is two and a half times higher than Romania's, which is 10.4 percent, and even higher than the war-torn Ukraine's inflation. But before you start talking about sanctions for war inflation, I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that no one believes you anymore. As a result of inflation in Orbán, most food prices doubled over two years. We have reached 1000 forints of bread, 1000 forints of butter, and already a kilo of trappist cheese and costs 5-6 thousand forints. An average Hungarian family spends 130 thousand HUF a month more because of inflation in Orbán. The real demand of the Hungarians continued to fall due to inflation in Orbán. According to the recent data of KSH, the salaries are worth almost 7 percent less, i.e. nearly HUF 30 thousand were taken out of the pockets of the Hungarians, which was taken out by the Orbán government. The last time there was such a huge increase in food after the destruction of World War II and in the Rákosi era, which we can safely call historical and historical sin. I know these are unknown concepts to you, but I will try the impossible, try to explain to you how Hungary can be led out of trouble. It is not prices, but wages and pensions that need to be raised, as set out by Klára Dobrev's shadow government. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] The shadow government is prepared for the task. A wage increase would require five important government measures. The first is that we also need to introduce European minimum wage rules in Hungary, after we have successfully fought this out in the EU. With this step, the Hungarian minimum wage will rise by at least HUF 50,000, and it will push up the other salaries by about that. [[17.00]] Secondly, the state must set an example. At the same time, wage increases should be made for public employees, teachers, nurses, social workers, police officers, firefighters, paramedics, kindergarten workers, public administration workers. This is important not only for civil servants who will increase their wages, but also because the state will be able to raise the wage level directly. Economic fact: if the state raises wages, then the private sector will also have to raise wages, otherwise, better case scenario, it will not be able to seduce anyone from the public sector or lose their employees if they do not keep pace with the state. That's what Klara Dobrev's government would do. The third step is that the government must help small and medium-sized enterprises to raise wages, but to do so, the current multi-friendly tax system must be made fairer. Today, the Orbán government considers its taxes to be the largest, richest international giant companies, even though these companies are taking the profits they have earned abroad. On the contrary, it is necessary to support small and medium-sized enterprises, as this support will be used twice, where there will be higher salaries that will be spent here, increasing economic performance. That's what Klara Dobrev's government would do. [[The chair is occupied by Dóra Dúró, Vice-President of the Parliament.]] The fourth step is not a measure, but rather a new economic policy approach: it is only possible to grant EU or Hungarian state aid to investment which undertakes to pay its employees a higher, competitive wage than usual in the given area. Today, this is not an aspect of the development of strategic partnerships. That's not an issue for you. That's why the country is full of multinationals working at printed prices, battery factories and assembly plants. Today, the Orbán government looks at who pays more to the Hungarian state. We will watch who pays the Hungarian people more. The fifth measure is perhaps the most obvious for a social democrat: education, vocational training, the Hungarian trade unionism must be strengthened. In order to set the Hungarian wages on a steeply growing path, competitive knowledge and strong representation of interests are needed. It's the only way to restore the honor of work in the long run. That's what Klara Dobrev's government would do. Believe me, the only way out of this pit, poverty, hopelessness, livelihood crisis is by ending the period of inflation in Orbán, my Orbán mister, oligarch, son-in-law, my favorite gas mechanic. This country has only one hope of reliving European prosperity, and this hope is the shadow government of Klára Dobrev. I have no vain fantasies, and I know that you will now again bring crickets and bugs about sanctions, Brussels, and evil left. But remember this: what you are doing to this country, to this people, will be on the black pages of history books, and you will all be very, very ashamed in hindsight. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-05-30-217	Welcome, fellow Members. The keynote speeches will be continued by Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2023-05-30-218	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Kálmán Olga began his speech with a report on a group meeting. 26 May 2006, Balatonősöd, a group meeting, where we could learn from the wider public that Ferenc Gyurcsány told us that he faked the budget figures, that he tricked the Hungarian people, that they lied, that they even sent falsified data to Brussels, that they used hundreds of tricks in order to keep the truth from finding out how this country was stolen, honourable Member. 26 May 2006, Balatonősöd. Madam Member, you have just told us what Klára Dobrev would do, and she has spent most of her speech with this. Well, Klára Dobrev has done two things so far, through her mother, a preferential loan to her husband to buy the Timi factory and a stolen family villa at a discount price. These are the two that Klara Dobrev has been able to take care of in this country. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] and continues to go in this direction, honourable Member. [[Kálmán Olga: Pretty weak! Csaba Dömötör: But it's true!]] The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that is all we can expect from Klára Dobrev. That's all he's been able to do so far, and that's what's expected in the future. But let's look at Congressman László Lukács, who may have won the demagogue contest today [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] Dániel Z. Carpathian and Dániel said what a tragedy the exodus of young people was, as he boasted that he had taken doctors abroad to Ireland for a better salary. He boasted that he had sent 62 doctors to Ireland. Then he said that we would be the ones to leave the European Union, while Martin Gyöngyösi was sitting behind him, the President of Jobbik. Are we members or are we free? It's an address. Z. Dániel Karpát and the lead speaker of today, so he did not write a book entitled EU-teaching, fellow Members. You burned an EU flag at your protests, and should we be members, or should we be free? A series of events was held with a title. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] It was Márton Gyöngyösi who participated in referendums not recognised by the Western community in Crimea and Donbas, honourable Member. So if anyone belongs to that world, they are you and Jobbik, honourable Member. And it was particularly humorous that he also spoke of medical wages as an exporter of medicine. When you're talking about VAT and extra income, budget figures, let's be clear about the immeasurable demagogy that this country has had to deal with a number of crises in recent years. Hungarian people and Hungarian businesses have had a pandemic, a Covid epidemic, an energy crisis, an inflation crisis, a sanctions crisis in recent years. The fact that there is extra VAT, honourable Member, is true. And how much extra expenditure with energy costs, how much energy prices have increased thanks to the effects of sanctions, how much has the different costs increased to heat and light schools, hospitals, social institutions, and so on? The immeasurable demagogy that you claim is what resources would be invested in... well, we've seen it! I ask you, all of you, Imre Komjathi, Zita Gurmai, Olga Kálmán, György Lukács László and all of you here in this room, especially Ferenc Dávid, to speak honestly in this debate if you can say to yourselves that in recent years, what we have submitted to improve the wages of Hungarian workers has been voted in favour. But that's not how it happened! You have not voted for a tax reduction eighty times. We've reduced taxes eighty times since 2010, and you've all said no to that. If it had been up to you, it wouldn't have decreased, the employer's tax wouldn't have decreased, the corporate tax wouldn't have decreased, socho wouldn't have decreased, and so on. If it were up to you, these taxes wouldn't have been reduced. When we submitted a raise for law enforcement workers, soldiers, teachers, doctors, social workers, nurses, you said no to that. Then you said no to that! They said no. They will then initiate a debate on the organisation of wages for Hungarian workers, which I think is an important debate that is worth discussing. Let's just see what's behind your actions. You guys have always pressed the "no" button. They said there was no need for a tax reduction, they said there was no need for a wage increase. Ladies and gentlemen, There are voting records on Parliament's website, anyone can look at them. These things happened. And there are the lists of who voted yes and who voted no. It's not some hocus-pocus about who's on the side or who's thinking, who's a social Democrat or who's a Christian Democrat. Here was a vote: they want to reduce personal income tax, and László György Lukács said that he doesn't want it, the DKs said they don't want it, and the MSZPs also said they don't want to reduce personal income tax. By comparison: In 2009, 36 percent and then 38 percent of the top key was his. Where was Kálmán Olga then to account for the then Gyurcsány-Bajna leadership, that 38 percent of personal income tax is the upper key. Now it's 15 percent. Then where were the great speeches of György László Lukács and Imre Komjathi. Why didn't Imre Komjathi knock on the MSZP party center and say that dear boys, this 38 percent is a lot, people can't take it. Don't raise personal income tax because that's 38 percent. Where was Ferenc Dávid, as head of the representative organization, to knock on the door that 38 percent was extremely high? The Hungarian people can't handle this! [[17.10]] Now the upper rate of personal income tax is 16 percent; 15 percent! [[Kálmán Olga: Na!]] 38-15, 38-15! In 2009, in their last year, you spent 12 billion forints on family tax relief. In 2022 we spent HUF 980 billion on family tax relief. 980 billion forints plus from the state budget came to the families through tax breaks. 12 in your time, Your Honour. Where was Imre Komjathi and Ferenc David and Olga Kálmán to knock on the door? [[Imre Komjathi: Factory!]] By the way, where are the congressmen and congressmen? [[It's an interrogation from the ruling parties.]] This debate has been initiated, honourable Members, by people who have been heavily involved in the leadership of the previous government and have contributed heavily to the corrupt policy that has been represented by the names of Ferenc Gyurcsány and Gordon Bajnai. Among the authors are Ferenc Gyurcsány himself; Ágnes Vadai; László Varju, State Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Development; Gergely Arató, also State Secretary. Where are they about this debate, who were the leaders and members of Hungary's most corrupt government, and who assisted in the policy of exploitation and aid that took place between 2002 and 2010 under the leadership of Ferenc Gyurcsány and Gordon Bajnai? You just took me away from people. If we're talking about people's wages, you've postponed the tax cut in 2009, you've taken away the 13th month's wages, you've taken away the 13th month's pension, you've constantly raised taxes, you've constantly raised the rent while you've been lying about budget figures. Ladies and gentlemen, There was no crisis in 2007. Do you know how much the growth of the Hungarian economy has been? 0.2 percent. [[Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi:]] There was no crisis in 2006. Do you know the number of Hungarian government deficits in the world? The second, only in war-torn Lebanon, there was a greater public deficit. No? We are talking about the years of wealth, not the years of crisis, and 2006 and 2007. [[Kálmán Olga intervenes.]] [[Kálmán Olga intervenes.]] You stole the money from the people's pockets, took it, gave it to their foreign friends, and gave nothing to Hungarian workers. Since 2010, a million more people have been working because you left people with humiliating aid on the side of the road. (Kálmán Olga intervenes.) Speaking of family policy, before 2010, honourable Members, a family with three or four or five children meant poverty. Your policy was that if people take on more children, they should live worse. They took away housing support, interest-supported forint loans, family tax breaks, fought back the child, and pursued an anti-family, anti-life and anti-worker policy. Then DK's closest ally, JK, Jobbik-Conservatives, comes here and tells us that we should talk about the wages of Hungarian workers without the name of Ferenc Gyurcsány. What kind of hypocrisy is that? Well, between 2002 and 2010, the minimum wage was raised from 50,000 to 73,500 HUF, Mr Komjathi. It was raised by 23 500 forints. Now 232 thousand forints, honourable Member. Is there a difference? Let's just acknowledge the results and talk about the facts, because it's much easier to bring reality and numbers here, and not to say the Kálmán Olga propaganda text. Our conversation is much simpler if we talk on the basis of facts. You didn't raise the minimum wage because you forgot about the work floor, you forgot about the workers, and we raised and we raised the wages. We never say that we are at the end of the road, we never say that we have done enough, we will continue, as we have done so far, to increase the wages of Hungarian workers. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi: Good job! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-30-219	The lead speaker of the Momentum Group, Mr Lajos Löcsei, is next. Here you go.
u2023-05-30-220	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I must admit, I wrote a speech last night for this debate, I made my professional proposals, the Momentum Movement's position, but when I came here, I decided not to say it, because I think that the debates usually take place or should take place between parties who listen to each other, possibly storing up constructive proposals, taking them with them and integrating them into the government strategy. But it is not so here, fellow Members. Over the past 12 to 13 years, this government has emptied Parliament's work, and our proposal is as good, constructive, constructive as it is, based on the experience of the past years, this government does not accept it, it does not infiltrate it, it goes on its own head. Consider the example of committee work. In the last 12 years, how many opposition proposals have the Fidesz majority committees, honourable Members, been adopted? Just as much as you think now. So I have the right to ask myself that we should at all be involved in such debates as this until our proposals find open ears in the government. Of course, issues relating to wage development are very important, and we should discuss this in a normal democracy. Where are the wages in Hungary today? Within the European Union, we are among the hosts, and in one year real earnings have decreased by 20 percent. In terms of Czech Republic, Slovakia, but in terms of proportion, Romania also catches up with Western wages faster than Hungary. In terms of wages, we are now not only behind the old EU Member States, but also behind the countries of the region. We have the highest inflation rate across the EU, 24 per cent, while this has fallen to one digit in terms of the average of the European Union. As successful as the government is driving under the heading of wage development, this record high inflation is being eaten by the 40-50 percent increase in food prices, not to mention the family allowance that has been frozen for 12 years, or the 28 500 HUF old-age pension minimum. Ladies and gentlemen, In two consecutive quarters, it is safe to say that Hungary is experiencing a very serious and deep economic crisis in the light of inflation over 20 percent. Food prices have disappeared, the purchasing value of the actions is decreasing, more than 60 percent of Hungarians have a sudden expenditure problem. 300,000 small pensioners live on income below HUF 100,000, and another 600 thousand live on income below HUF 130,000, while the pensioner shopping basket suffered 25.3% inflation. And what does the Hungarian government say about these numbers? It's price-stop chicken butt-back, flour, oil, sugar, milk, price-stop potatoes, and besides, shops are forced to take action. The price of food for the poor, dry noodles, has also increased by more than 66 percent in recent years. The price of pastries increased by 60, the bread by 80, the butter by 76, the margarine by 60, and the poultrymeat by 50 percent. The chicken leg rose from 300 forints to a thousand forints. The 45 ounces of butter, which is cheaper, has risen to 700 HUF in recent years. Now, these are the numbers that the family-friendly government is deeply silent about. And for us opposition politicians, it would be our job to provide this information and facts to the residents of the last small settlement. The voters must know that life in neighboring Ukraine, which has been struck by war, has not increased as much as it has done here, on the island of peace, in Hungary. Hungarian families need to know that one thing has cost them their livelihoods, and this is the result of Fidesz's past 12-13-year-old failed economic policy, and that filling their pockets is more important than the living of Hungarians. [[Resume in 69/2!]] 2022-2026. parliamentary term Budapest, Tuesday 30 May 2023 69/2. Number Parliamentary Diary Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Council I repeat myself: until our proposals find listening ears here in Parliament, I ask you with the utmost respect, not to use our resources for pointless debates, but to get the facts to the Hungarian families, let us finally join the teachers, the students, the parents. Because if we don't, this government will take away the future of our children. Ladies and gentlemen, Wake up! Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2023-05-30-221	The main speaker of the group of the MSZP, Imre Komjathi, is now speaking from the stage. Here you go, Congressman. [[17.20]]
u2023-05-30-222	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, We should be discussing the situation of millions of Hungarian workers, but first I must specifically mention 199 workers, the parliamentary collective, those who should be here in Parliament and debate here in the debate industry. Nonsense that a separate debate day should be initiated on one of the most important issues, and even then we should be afraid that we will get nothing but a hit from the government's left-over tape since 2010 because there is nothing they can do about what bad governance was going on 13 years ago. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Don't tell me, because I didn't govern at the time, I worked in a factory, and I fought in an industrial union against the government at the time. Once again, against the current government. What do you conclude from the fact that we, with the chemical union, had already protested against the Minister of Economy János Kóka SZDSZ, and you hugged him immediately after 2010 and took him into the business. This is what we would like to say, which we do not think is good, to propose a solution and to listen to their arguments with mutual consideration, in case one persuasives the other. Even more so, because neither side is uniform. We know exactly why the government is thinking more, from behind the cordons you can hear the plates ringing, and we know exactly why there is no smiling selfie on which János Lázár, Márton Nagy and György Matolcsy hug each other. And we have never concealed the fact that the Socialist Party has a debate on fundamental issues with the opposition's two liberal parties, its two green parties and the right-wing parties and movements, and we do not think the same thing about the current situation. That's why we're here, to argue together, to talk together. Anyone who says there's nothing to talk about today and doesn't look at the price tag in the store doesn't even look at his balance in the bank text, he's a member of the privileged caste today, and he doesn't think about people's livelihood and financial security. First of all, let me talk about the problem, what we think is the biggest problem. After 2010, the Fidesz government implemented a distorted economic policy based on double vulnerability. Hungary only works if EU funds arrive fully and, on the other hand, the influx of foreign capital for cheap Hungarian labour, insufficient labour protection and generous tax incentives is ongoing. By this method, my dear fellow Members, you have ruled the moment, but you have eaten tomorrow. Look what you've done. In order to maintain their political and economic power, they have moved so far away from the fundamental values of the European Union, where EU money is no longer being delivered, and instead they are dropping a notice that they should come to Brussels with the appropriate papers. Yes, until then, you have kicked the rule of law pillars out of line, while you have fattened the pro-government oligarchs out of EU money, which the European Union has not been able to leave behind. However, your former Conservative friends in Europe have been trying to look away for a very long time, and we MSZPs have raised this to them for years. Think about it, you have spent hundreds of billions of Hungarian people on anti-EU propaganda, and now you have no money, no poster! Are you sure the freedom fight against our resources was a good idea? Tell me, is this how you tried to stop Brussels before you made a reference? The Hungarian economic structure was able to stay together only in calm weather, with continuously arriving foreign capital and unharmed forints. None of this has stopped for years. You have left the Hungarian worker defenseless in a storm that has been constantly fueled by the challenges of climate change, then by a pandemic, then by a war and the energy crisis that is building on it, and by other crises that result from it. There's still about 25 percent inflation. It's a record, I can see it from anywhere. Government decisions that can influence the wages of Hungarian workers are born late and soon, but in any case, they do not really help. Hungarian people are getting worse. We may mean something else by independence and freedom, but when the Russian gas, in the dependence of Russian oil, waiting for the expansion of the Russian nuclear power plant, wants to play a street fighter tied to a Chinese battery factory, this could even be a comic if it did not risk the daily safety of millions of Hungarians. So far, a series of problems, and now the proposals of the MSZP. First of all, because of you, we have lost EU money, you must be kind enough to implement as accurately as possible what you have agreed with the European Union. Do what you have to do, let the money come, and don't take these home, but make it a salary for the Hungarian people! Secondly, admit that the unorthodox economic policy has failed! Let's get back to the solutions that our regional competitors are already hitting on us, instead of defiance, forming, peacock dancing! Put me in knowledge. Guide the Hungarian economy from assembly to research and development! Eliminate the corruption that is killing the market and choose who to conclude a strategic partnership agreement with. Compose a strategic contract with Hungarian workers and Hungarian trade unions! The main aim of the MSZP is to ensure that all employees have the same rights, no job without a contract of employment, no job without a decent salary. We are proposing to conclude wage and productivity agreements at sectoral level between trade unions and employers' organisations and to extend the system of collective agreements to the majority of sectors. Third, admit that we are also heading for a pension disaster. In the short term, pensioners' safety of life is at risk due to the depreciation of their benefits. Therefore, the MSZP says that an immediate 5 percent pension increase is required, that is the proposal of the MSZP. The latter will be resolved by a fundamental reform, to ensure that the pension system is stable. Today there are 256 thousand pensioners in Hungary, whose pension is less than 100 thousand forints. Finally, deliberately timed to the end of what I have to say to ensure that it remains, I would like to present our proposals for fire fighting. Don't sabotage the basic food. Don't put any VAT on them. It is precisely a day of debate that serves to discuss them. Unlike the Prime Minister, I do not think that brandy is a basic food, but potatoes should not only be cheap during elections. Let us finally discuss the need for a record-size, 27 percent VAT rate and the extent to which customers, traders, service providers and the state register could be satisfied. Don't get the lowest paychecks. It is unacceptable to pay taxes on minimum wage with the same key as on multimillion-dollar executive wages, even in peacetime, but it is life-threatening in the middle of a livelihood crisis. And is it really not possible for millions of forints to pay with a higher key? Finally, let us introduce a rescue package for households. Give 20,000 forints a month to the most needy 300,000 families on a food bank card that can be used to buy basic food! We are often asked why we come here, why we come again and try to argue with government forces. Well, I've always done my job, whatever it was, not just when I was being checked. Especially the hundreds of thousands of people we have to talk to out there from week to week have no way of speaking, we're their voices. If they don't have a voice, we'll tell them for them, use ours. We will therefore tell you that the difference between the offer and the offer is clear. The Hungarian Socialist Party wants tax-free wages for the poorest, cheap basic food in shops, safe and well-paying jobs, predictable old age, once again to Hungarians in the EU, immediate help for families, greater responsibility for the million-paid, wealthy layer, or even a cheaper Balaton entry for everyday families, once we have bought yachts for the richest. Honourable Members, It would also be good to confront and reconcile positions with the pro-government, not only on exceptional occasions, but also constantly in Parliament's work. We socialists don't give up, we'll be here next time, ready for debate. Thank you for coming, and thank you for being here to argue with us. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-05-30-223	It is now time for the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, Mr Brenner Koloman. Here you go. [[17 .30]]
u2023-05-30-224	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian university world deserves more and teachers and workers working in the Hungarian university world deserve much higher wages. CHAPTER XXI In the century, universities also train teachers in a form that provides the knowledge and skills needed for the widest range of Hungarian society. In the century, a century of knowledge and information, so that they can live a growing and full, happy life. One of the most important indicators of a society's level of development is the degree and quality of material and moral prestige of intellectuals. I think that one of the greatest evidence of the current Fidesz government's anti-knowledge and intellectual policy, in addition to the wages of the pedagogical society, is exactly how low the wages of academics and workers face every day in the year 2023 of the Lord. And not only do these wages fail in a European comparison and cause migration from the Hungarian university world, they also fail in a Central European comparison, and they are even below a decent wage level within Hungary. And yes, the wage development at universities that you have turned into a public foundation through violation of academic freedom, but even this has only led to a noticeable development at the highest level of the university hierarchy, with regard to university teachers. That is why we Jobbik-Conservatives have been stressing the need for a conservative turn in education and higher education in Klebelsberg for a long time. At the same time as raising student scholarships, it is also important that the university city is finally built up instead of the University of Fudan in China. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the opposition parties.]]
u2023-05-30-225	It is now time for the lead speaker of the Group of our countries, Mr István Apáti. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2023-05-30-226	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Our Homeland Movement got what it expected in today's debate, no big miracle, no surprises. With virtually unchanged momentum, 33 years of pointing at each other and with more or less restraint or even unscrupulous political mothering; everyone is pointing at each other, and everyone feels that I am thinking of the two large blocks, the balliberal array and the Fidesz-KDNP, that they have done their job perfectly, the responsible one is always in the other block or in the outer environment. In recent years, Fidesz-KDNP has perfected its knowledge to put it in football language, because it is perhaps more digestible for you, that, like bad football players, when the game doesn't work, namely, wage increases, economic development, economic recovery, then, without exception, they are always looking for the culprit in external circumstances; the beach marker was wrong, the referee was blowing badly, the track floor was bumpy, the track was high, the track was slippery, the track was too small, it was too big, the line was drawn badly, and the rest. Everyone is to blame, but you are not, even though 13 years ago, 80 percent of the time, they run this country by two thirds. So since 2010, all the responsibilities have been entirely yours. You are also responsible for the fact that those responsible for economic and political criminal offences and other moral crimes prior to 2010 have not been accounted for in any way, and have left everyone running. That's why it's your responsibility. They can only be angry at themselves. The fact is that it is also a flawed view for you, honourable pro-government Members, that you are measuring yourself to the period 2002-2010, including in terms of wages. Well, running faster than snails isn't hard. It's not hard to outperform that modest performance. You should measure yourselves to your own two-thirds powers. You should be referring to the situation of Hungarian wages, especially, say, the miserable and increasingly hopeless situation in the North Plain region, the opportunities that voters have given you. They won four elections in a row by two-thirds. And yet you are pointing backwards, unaccounted for, or now refer to external circumstances; you have just referred to the circumstances triggered by the world project Covid, and then the Russian-American war in Ukrainian territory. Let's look at some numbers to make it a little clearer how different there are. I'd translate these numbers into the language of hourly wages. The average EU hourly wage is 23 euros; the Danish people make the most, with an average hourly wage of 41 euros; then the Germans pay an average wage of 30 euros. The Hungarian average hourly rate is 9 euros; this is the average which is obviously drawn up by Budapest and Western Transdanubia. This, let's say, in Northern Hungary and the North Great Plain, will still be an unattainable fantasy, I think, five or even ten years from now, honourable fellow Members. There is enormous inequality in wages, and I think it is striking in the European Union. Not surprisingly, Budapest is the most sought after, and the average earnings in Budapest exceed 73 percent of the average earnings in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county in the poorest, most unfortunate situation. Even the average wages in the second place of Győr-Moson-Sopron County are 19 percent higher than in the capital. That's where we are now. And these odds and pay compensations are absolutely hopeless attempts, by the way, which you are doing, and even taking this country in the worst possible direction, when you think that it may be a condition for access to Chinese loans, which are a lifeline for lack of EU money, but I have closed my parentheses comment. As far as public employment is concerned, it was indeed a huge problem before 2010 that these statuses were actually working as a paying place, and this may have decreased in number between 2010 and 2023, especially in recent years, but we see that nothing has changed in its effectiveness. Moreover, the main reasons for this are the extremely bad local practical organisation, but since this is not our main problem, public employment, which is still a trace of public employment at local level, and perhaps most of the bad organisation would not waste any more time right now. What we should be wasting more time on is what can be done in this miserable situation, and indeed, the subject of the debate is the settlement and catching up of Hungarian wages, a clear improvement of the situation of Hungarian workers to the naked eye, but, obviously, tragic inflation on this subject cannot be separated. You can blame this on the war, but it's just not fair because price-stops were introduced before the war started, food stops were introduced, and fuel stop was introduced three or four months before the war started. Thus, inflation was significant even before the outbreak of the war, to the extent that it forced the government to introduce price stops. It is true, however, that the war has made the situation worse and has increased inflation. But that wasn't the trigger. That is why the argument you are referring to is wrong, abusing the fact that some of the voters may or may not be able to remember what was in the summer and autumn of 2021 when the first price stops were introduced; they can be washed together and the different dates can be smudged. The reason why you are not particularly trying to curb inflation is because you are living in the magic of public opinion polls, which has not yet been discussed this afternoon or early this evening. They regularly carry out large-scale research, with at least 5-10 000 samples, at the head of the Rogán works, and from this they see that you are still unbrokenly popular, so they do not feel the urge to act, they do not feel the coercive force of political or social pressures that should actually break down inflation, and thus create amazing extra revenues, both in relation to excise duty revenues and especially in relation to VAT revenues, from which the ever-increasing gaps in the budget are being resolved. Let us be honest with you that these are the two biggest drivers: the horrific VAT and excise duty revenue, but mainly VAT revenue, and the fact that, according to the polling data, you are still still supposed to be very much loved by Hungarian voters, with a large majority, even a two-thirds majority, would vote for you. I'm not sure that's true, but the research data you're about to receive may still show this, but I would urge you to be cautious in this regard, too. What I would like to ask here is that we should not just dwell on the past and spend a ten-minute period of time presenting less interesting data, and I would like to suggest that we try to think and find solutions in the future. [[17.40]] What opportunities do you see, Mr Secretary of State, that in the near future Hungarian companies working in the smallest volume, micro-enterprises, can receive contributions and wage subsidies not only to create jobs, but also to support existing jobs in larger volumes, as in 2016-17? What are the prospects for the most unlucky businesses in the North Plain, what are the prospects, say, for the region of Northern Hungary? After all, these two regions may be in the most hopeless situation. I did not by accident describe the gross differences in average wages within the country, which are quite challenging and which, by the way, also significantly promote internal migration from these regions, by creating a number of other social problems, or by significantly addressing and strengthening other long-standing social problems. What opportunities do you see to reduce your employer's and/or employee's burden? After all, it is possible to give an example, and, by the way, Congressman Nacsa is right in numbers that the wage burden has decreased by a percentage compared to the period before 2010, but without tax incentives, if my knowledge is correct, then the public costs will take away one third of the salary of an average Hungarian worker. In addition, food price inflation is still a major problem, in fact, because, honourable fellow Members, we have to measure it in multipliers here, let us leave this percentage of statistical magic trick, and we know the fundamental truth about it in Churchill, which is unfortunately more true than ever. This shall be measured in multiplying numbers. If we go into a grocery store, we can see that the unit prices and unit prices in a thousand forints are almost only exceptionally rare. Not to mention another big problem in this country about health care. Technically, you, implementing one of the most shameful plans of the SZDSZ, have shifted and constantly shifted people from public health care to private health care, but at the same time, you will deduct from your wages to the same extent that would allow, say, private health to be used with a little more efficiency. So I would expect an answer from the Secretary of State on these very important issues of fate. Thank you very much. [[Applause for the representatives of our country.]]
u2023-05-30-227	Mr Máté Kanász-Nagy, lead speaker for the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2023-05-30-228	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Dear House, Allow me to approach from a little further away, but I will arrive at the situation of Hungarian workers and the situation of the Hungarian labour market, because I think that if we want to look at this issue, it is worth starting from where the Hungarian government imagines Hungary's place, where it imagines its place in our over-enhanced consumer world and in the network of global capital relations. Well, please imagine in the semi-periphery, somewhere between the central and periphery countries, between the medium-developed states, and it can be precisely explained what awaits the labour force in Hungary today and what is the situation with the labour market. If this is the situation that I want to describe, the following main points must be highlighted. Basically, we need to outline Hungary's vulnerability to these global capital conditions. Here we are dependent both on Western capital and Eastern capital, the Hungarian government has made a kind of alliance with multinational companies, has made an alliance with both Western and Eastern capital, and when we say that Hungary is being turned into a battery ring, we can see precisely the formation of these federal relations. They also want to base this country, the economy of this country, and so on the labour market, on the fact that they believe energy sources are cheap. These energy sources are acquired from the east, which strengthens our Oriental dependence. This means, in particular, dependence on Russia in the case of energy, if we talk about both nuclear energy and oil and natural gas, we see this dependency. The labour market or economy of this country is largely based on manufacturing and the automotive industry. These are basically assembly activities, what various companies do here in Hungary, and we must point out immediately that they do not want to develop domestic capital investments, but they are almost exclusively foreign capital investments, if we are talking about either the Germans or the Chinese, the large companies of these companies. It is a very important point that all green solutions are generally rejected, the problem of climate change is undermined, the mass extinction, or the water crisis and the crisis in agriculture. In general, nature, environmental treasures, and natural resources are considered to be an exploitable resource that is infinitely available and is intended to feed economic growth, which is mainly the growth of these large companies. What's waiting for us in this model? Well, the continuing second nature, the lying promise of catching up. We are always told that we will reach Austria in a few years, but in this system we will soon reach Austria, or never, in ten to twenty and fifty years' time. Dependence on the central countries is typical and therefore the eternal semi-periphery remains. Of course, this also has the impression of the Hungarian labour market, because in order to create a comfortable, pleasant environment for both Western and Eastern capital, this country needs to be reduced. On the one hand, they cheapen our environment, which means that the natural resources here, our water resources, our agricultural land, our energy carriers are being sold and offered to these large companies, and on the other hand they also cheapen the Hungarian workforce. Cheapening the Hungarian labour force means that wages are much lower here, if you look at, say, jobs in various car factories and battery factories and compare them with the same labour force positions in other suitable Western European factories, you can see that workers are making much less money here and the various labour protection rules that apply to them are also much weaker or simply missing. This is how the Hungarian labour market and the Hungarian labour force are offered to these companies for exploitation after nature. If we look at it in detail, we can get a very accurate picture of this process and the situation. For example, if you look at what is happening in the battery companies, you can see that these workers are doing some alienated work. This means that these are very simple, low added value activities and obviously employers, these large factories treat the workforce as a kind of soulless robot. So these are easy-to-teach jobs, and they don't require a high level of knowledge, which involves cutting down our education system. The government boasts of salaries, but the fact is that the basic payments in the battery companies are very low, with a significant excess work, replacement work, night work, multi-shift work, weekend work, i.e. you are proud to earn up to hundreds of thousands of forints in these factories, only then will the person, the employee, have to work himself to get this wage. The question is how this has long-term health effects, how to organise and live a normal family life. If we are talking about the health situation, obviously the labour force in these factories is very, very vulnerable also from the point of view that production is taking place in very dangerous conditions, various chemical processes and working with dangerous substances. So this is a very, very risky situation at the battery companies. We could also talk about the fact that not only do they not pay this workforce properly, but they are very distrustful, whether they are owned by Chinese or South Korean owners. There are many examples of what control, what control they are subject to. There is also a government slip that creates jobs for the Hungarian workforce, but not necessarily, because then they would not expect tens of thousands of foreign migrant workers. The Hungarian workforce can be found, for example, in London, Berlin, Madrid, in various Western European countries, especially the young labour force who has migrated. Well, interestingly, they're not the ones that are being lured home by these investments, these battery companies, but these factories are basically from Central Asia, the Pacific region, China. [[17.50]] The fact is that if it were not enough to cheapen nature and to offer labour and exploitation, then there are also hundreds and thousands of billion forints spent on direct and indirect support for these battery factories or other car factories. They're gonna build roads for them, they're gonna build railroad lines for them, they're gonna build gas plants, we're gonna build electricity for them in Debrecen. In Debrecen the tram is not practically running right now, the rental prices have been raised, there is no electricity for that, but there is electricity for these battery factories to be supplied. Thus, by spending hundreds and thousands of billion forints to support these factories, it is precisely here that we need to look for the reasons why there is no source, for example, for the substantial improvement of the situation of civil servants, for the development of the civil servant pay table, which is a public servant's pay table, which has been frozen for a long time, and is practically in the range of 200,000 gross and 300 thousand forints. The Hungarian minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage completely ate up this public servant pay table. So there is knowingly money to support the battery companies, but there is little or no wage increase for Hungarian teachers, there is no wage increase for social workers, but that is precisely why there was a lack of substantial wage increase in health care for almost a decade, and this has only recently been done. And if you look at another sector of the Hungarian workforce, another dimension, SMEs, well, we have also seen cuts and withdrawals here in the past, for example, by leading out catatonic taxation. This is also the reason why the funds are not intended to support SMEs, but to invest in battery companies. In these factories there are up to HUF 60-80 million, but interestingly, the corner spicy, butcher shop or the hairdresser barely receives any support or virtually no support. From them, let's say, they pulled the kata while they were supporting these big banks. There would be an alternative, there would be a way out of this, but this would mean supporting the SME sector, the substantial wage-setting of the public sector and a green light involving job creation, on which I will explain my position later. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2023-05-30-229	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I give the floor to Congressman Ferenc Varga, who, as a result of the time frame regrouping, has a total time frame of seven minutes. Here you go.
u2023-05-30-230	[[His mic's not working.]] Madam President,
u2023-05-30-231	Be kind to wait, Congressman, because you don't have a voice yet. Now, you have the floor.
u2023-05-30-232	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to current inflation in Orbán, hundreds of thousands of families are forced to be deprived. There is no man in this country who would not feel the result of your failed economic policy. They destroyed the forint, left the government debt to run away, and lost EU funds for our country with 12 years of continuous theft. The value of payments decreased by 20 percent and food inflation by 43 percent. In such a period of distress caused by the government, it appreciates how much people earn, how much they earn, how much they earn. Households with lower incomes are struggling to survive every day. They cannot adapt to the rise in prices, as their consumption structure does not contain articles that they could give up. The bulk of their income is spent on the consumption of basic products that are needed to sustain life, such as food and overhead. That is precisely why I believe that we should talk about public workers who live on humiliating wages in today's debate. The public worker's salary was fixed at HUF 116 thousand gross this year, i.e. HUF 77 140 net. Now, this is the real minimum wage, and this is the real guaranteed minimum wage in our country: 77 140 HUF. Try, not for long, just for a month, how you can make a living, how you can buy food, pay rent, don't give me God, raise a child. In contrast to the practice of recent years, this year's public wages have not been published in a regulation, as they have been linked from last year to the minimum wage and to the guaranteed minimum wage, so there is no need for a specific amount finding. According to automaticism, the minimum wage for public workers is 50 percent of the normal minimum wage. In doing so, the government has preserved public workers' salaries and at the same time quantified the value of public workers' work. Half as much as is required to pay for any other work. And I would quickly take this opportunity to respond to what Dr. Sándor Czomba said. As I understand it, Secretary of State, you think community service is good, and you think community service is a direct way to the labour market. It is not a straight line; it is clear in itself that after more than a decade or two there are 80-100 thousand public workers still in our country. In 2018, the Seven Tree Research Institute, commissioned by the Ministry of the Interior, also showed that public work could not lead a wide range of people back to the labour market. As far as the success of the transition to the primary labour market is concerned, the indicators of public work are lousy. In 2014, 12.6 percent of exits worked 180 days later in the primary labour market. In 2021, this figure was 13,8 percent. Also this year, 81 thousand out of 144,000 entrants became public workers again six months later, 25 thousand unemployed, and 19 thousand people's status in the labour market was unknown. I would not say that this is a success and a straight line to the labour market. And what is really the cause of the failure here? I think that the programme has never provided evaluable training, adequate social, psychological or family support, even though I think that it would really be necessary for these people to move on. A number of studies have been carried out to show that public work is significantly linked to your election results, by the way. Public works increase the results of the Fidesz parliamentary and municipal elections, i.e. more people vote for the governing party because of public work. I could say that the more public workers in a settlement, the more Fidesz voters. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, You're not threatening public workers, are you? You're not using them as voting machines, are you? You didn't, did you? How can I think that, since you are not known to be so unsouled? In small settlements where there is little other job opportunities, public workers are completely at the mercy of the city manager. It's almost feudal here. Often, it is through the promise of community service or the threat of taking it, that they are able to vote for the right place. A researcher at Yale University, U.S.A., also did research in 2019. Here 93 randomly selected villages in Baranya, Heves and Borsod county were investigated. Five to seven percent of respondents reported corruptly trying to get their votes. And I'm just saying, it's pretty much the same as South American relations. The government likes to say that it has created a million new jobs, but let us look beyond what jobs they really are. You also say that if there's work, there's everything. What kind of work? [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Bosch, Mercedes!]] Increasing employment in itself does not mean that everything is there, and having a job today does not mean that you are making enough money to make a decent living, because you have created labour poverty in recent years. Work in Hungary has not been enough for hundreds of thousands of people in the last decade to emerge from poverty. Then I thought about Flórian Farkas and the Bridge in the world of work, because after seven years of investigation at the end of last year, the prosecution closed the programme, called "Bridge to the World of Work," coordinated by the Fidesz MEP Flórian Farkas, on paper, aimed at catching up Roma in the labour market. None of the people were indicted, even though the European Anti-Fraud Office was investigating the case, and HUF 1.6 billion was lost without any improvement in the situation of the Roma in the labour market, while a large number of people were taking advantage of the stolen public money. [[18.00]] But, of course, there is a solution. Klára Dobrev's shadow government summarized five points on how to increase salaries, so that prices would finally rise, not only but also wages. [[There's a grumble from the ruling parties.]] Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the opposition.]]
u2023-05-30-233	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, asked for the floor. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that he will be able to make his speech on the Fidesz time frame. You have the floor, please.
u2023-05-30-234	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would like to respond to some of the things that have been said and bring some new points into the debate. Since there is time on this day of debate to look at a longer period of time, I think it is also worth starting from where we started when this government started working. We started from an economic situation where it was much better to live on aid instead of work, and we could not say at all that everyone in this country has a job. This simply meant that 12 percent of unemployment was close from the bottom. So the debate was not only about how much Hungarian people earn, but also about why everyone who wants to work does not have a job. Congressman Komjathi may be able to confirm this on the basis of his practical experience. So on this basis, I think that the first important weapon in the current governance period is that we have managed to raise the number of employees to record levels. [[Kálmán Olga: And inflation.]] The number of unemployed people fell below 4 per cent from 12 per cent, and we can still say that employment is at a record level, which means that whoever wants to work in Hungary will eventually find a job. I also think it is a result that we are far from at the end of the road that, in the period before the serious economic difficulties, I am thinking about the epidemic and the war period, real wages in Hungary have increased by more than 70 percent. We have a basis for comparison with the previous period, in which there was also crisis management, where real wages are also talking about a multi-cycle period of government that has increased by 13 to a few percent. So there are ten or a few percent of them, by the way, more than 70 percent. And I also consider it an important achievement that, during this period, the lowest earners, I might say, have managed to pay the most difficult people, and this has also been significantly increased. If I look at the issue of minimum wages, the minimum wage is now 232 and 296 thousand forints, which are still quite well raised, but one thing is certain: this is much higher than the seventy or a few thousand forints that were when this government started its work and raised a few thousand forints during the eight-year government cycle. During these years, a number of sectoral wage-raising programmes have also been launched, first for teachers, law enforcement workers, and there are currently doctors and nurses' wage-raising programmes, and I could continue to do so. Investment, as much as you are attacking, has played a key role in this. Because what we think is important is that if an investment comes to Hungary with high technology and, by the way, the wages of the jobs there are higher, it also means added value to the country. Therefore, it is also important that last year the investments in Hungary have made record records. It will create jobs, and it will also lead to higher wages. And when these investments are being attacked, please respond to what is the alternative. So if there is no investment in Hungary, whether foreign or domestic, what should be replaced by? So, let's say, when Electrolux announces dismissals, maybe 900 people have been reported in the last few weeks, what would you suggest to 900 people where to go to work if there are no investments? This torture question is never answered when investments are being attacked. As regards the issue of the European minimum wage, Congresswoman Olga Kálmán raised it, well, we have a basis for comparison when you were an independent journalist. We have seen well what minimum wage increases the government, the political alliance to which you have joined. At this rate [[He's showing it to me.]] While that government has tripled the minimum wage, it is not at all a matter of granting the right to set the minimum wage to Brussels bureaucrats. Because we have experience of the consequences of handing over powers. Or, let's say, what is the consequence of giving or giving the right to determine energy prices to countries that thought this was right. There, energy prices increased much more. So we're not gonna agree on that. Leave Hungarian pensions, Hungarian wages or the Hungarian tax system to Brussels bureaucrats, let's not do that. Because they will think of many things, but not what is in the interests of the Hungarian people. The issue of education and health has been raised here. Perhaps they have not yet had time to look at the draft budget, so I would like to tell you that the government will allocate 3434 billion for education in next year's budget, which is 629 billion more than this year's amount, and 2,000 billion more than in the period when Kálmán Olga was still an independent journalist. If we look at the issue of health, this amount is 3225 billion in the next year's budget, which is 424 billion more than this year's appropriations, and is 2027 billion forints higher than the amount of 2010 at the time when Kálmán Olga was still an independent journalist. I would also like to say to you now, as the person who spoke of a fairer tax system, that it is not a fairer tax system if we raise the corporate tax in a uniform way, let us say 19 percent of the current 9 percent. That means that not the big ones, but the big ones, the mediums, the small ones, will have to grow so much more. If Hungarian companies have to produce 10 percentage points more corporate tax for small, medium and large enterprises, then they will have less room for manoeuvre to raise wages or keep jobs. But here's another thing: if I were to raise the personal income tax rates, like what's in your election program almost always, it wouldn't be a higher wage, it would be a lower wage. That would mean that there are fewer netities for several hundreds or, where appropriate, millions of Hungarians. This is not a fairer tax system, and I am glad that you will write it down, because I hope that we will have an answer to this. I do not know any opposition left party who shares the government's view that tax rates should be kept low even in this exceptional situation, whether the corporate tax rate or the key to personal income tax. To suggest that the government's secret plan is not so secret as to drive the country out of the Union, let me just say that it's silly. Nonsense, accompanied by the fact that there is only one party in this Parliament that has openly campaigned to prevent us from being members of the Union. This was written in a book, slogand, flag burned, and this party is called Jobbik. It's not called Our Country, it's called Jobbik. Take responsibility for this. I would now like to say one more thing, and that is what is the international economic environment that is now determining our room for manoeuvre. Perhaps we all agree here that the Hungarian economy now has a tighter room for manoeuvre than in previous years. It's just that it doesn't matter why it does. The opposition parties are trying to make it look like it's all because of the Orbán government, most of all because of the Prime Minister. I can see that you have to say the phrase here. And by the way, they're saying that in every other country, it's like a sausage fence, even in Romania, it's been brought up right now. It is just that the economic picture in Europe is completely different. All of Europe has faced a long-lost economic problem, not only because of the fact of the war, but also because of the extremely misguided, looked-in, miscalculated Brussels decisions, even if they try to deny it. The war has been going on for a long year, and that is enough time to see where Brussels' economic policy has led in the shadow of the war; briefly: stagnation. And allow me to support this with numbers. From time to time, large international organisations publish their calculations of the economic outlook in the key economic areas. According to the OECD, economic growth in the United States will be 1.5 percent this year, while in China it will be 5.3 percent, while in the euro area it will be 0.8 percent, i.e. in an economic sense, Europe will be the shorter. But there is an international organisation that says there will be no economic growth in Europe. [[18.10]] And first of all, hold on to this. the causes of energy sanctions, which have drastically increased Europe's energy account, the Europe, which is otherwise extremely vulnerable to energy imports. [[Kálmán Olga: For the Russians!]] Russian energy imports have so far been a relatively competitive price for many countries, especially in this region. Now, that's over, because Russian energy imports are being forced out of Europe through sanctions. The consequences are tough and drastic. According to IMF calculations, the increase in energy prices in Spain and France is 1 percent, in Germany and Italy, and in the euro area as a whole, 1.4%. As a result, recession is expected in several countries, such as Germany, the Czech Republic, Estonia and the United Kingdom. There is still an increase in Hungary. Not as big as the last few years, but at least they're still expecting growth. And this increase in energy prices puts or excuses the expression in parentheses Europe's competitiveness. Industrial production decreased by 1.3 percent compared to last year in Europe, with a decline of 6 percent in the chemical industry. The Member States should pay attention. In two thirds of 18 countries, industrial production has decreased. Is this also the fault of Viktor Orbán? Energy price increases are causing production capacities to flow out of Europe. Politico, who did not agree with us on many things, said that the period of "made in Europe" could end. Shocking data: last year, greenfield investments in the European Union fell by 15 percent while you were attacking investments. All over Europe, they relapse as they grew by 18 percent in the United States. So what we are facing is not a phenomenon affecting the whole world economy, but Europe. These processes do not spare the strongest economy in Europe. In its analysis of 26 May, Bloomberg reports that Germany is facing a slow, long-term economic downturn. It will be felt by everyone not only in this region, but throughout Europe. The German economy has been declining since October and has only been able to expand twice in the last five quarters. Europe's situation is also complicated by the fact that Europe is now paying more for energy than Asia. Thanks to the sanctions, the former premium, called the Asian premium, is no longer paid by the Asian countries, but by the European countries. What I am talking about here is not some kind of abstract economic, economic moth, not because everyone in Europe is paying the price. According to Bruegel Institute, until January this year, European countries have spent EUR 800 billion to address the energy crisis. So not all sorts of things, but to deal with the energy crisis. This is worth comparing with the claim that, if you refer to it, it is a cricket and a bug. For Hungary, the energy bill has increased by HUF 4,000 billion. This is what businesses, families and especially the Hungarian state have to pay more. We didn't want this to happen, but we have to pay the charges. This is when Europe has to pay the price of war in an economic sense. To sum up, if you really want to do something for wages, I propose three things to my opposition colleagues. Don't even think about it at a time like this, if I may suggest a tax increase, don't want higher corporate taxes and higher personal income tax rates. Join the government's efforts to make a change in sanctions policy, not pay the price of war, and stop campaigning to avoid receiving EU funds. If we can reach agreement only on these three issues, then it is worth it that today's debate has been held. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-30-235	The debate will continue with two-minute speeches. In this context, it will be the first to come from the MSZP Group by Mrs Zita Gurmai. Here you go.
u2023-05-30-236	Thank you very much. Dear House, The agreement on a minimum wage and wage increase for this year includes, among other things, that if inflation exceeds the inflation projections, employees, employers and government will negotiate an interim minimum wage and wage increase. During the wage negotiations last year, the government calculated annual inflation of between 15 and 18 percent. This inflation expectation seems to have been overwritten by life a long time ago, since between 24 and 25.7 percent of the price rises in the first four months of this year. If the government prediction that inflation will be at least 9.9 per cent by December is confirmed, there is still a good chance that inflation will exceed the expected rate of government inflation on the average of this year. If we look at the relationship between inflation and wages from the point of view of the pay gap that adversely affects women, then the current situation has hit women far more than men. It is well known that approximately a third of women work part - time and earn much less than men. In Hungary, in 2021, the pay gap between women and men was 17.2 percent, i.e. women made so much less. If current inflation does not begin to decrease substantially within a short period of time, then women who are still engaged in part-time work under their care or family responsibilities will be in a much worse position than they were a year or two earlier. The cost of living and the rise in food prices do not take into account the fact that women work more and bring home less money than men. Given the current economic developments, it would also be appropriate to reflect on the increase of the lowest wages during the year for the government, as well as for the social partners, workers and employers, as a result of improving the situation of women. In addition, the government should take measures to eliminate, or at least substantially reduce, the gender pay gap. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2023-05-30-237	Mr Lőrinc Nacsa is coming from the KDNP Group, also in two minutes. Here you go.
u2023-05-30-238	Thank you very much. Speaking of the minimum wage, it has been an unbroken practice for many years that workers and employers agree with each other, and this has always been the case in recent years, and the government is only proclaiming it. Of course, we are pleased that the minimum wage is rising and we are trying to help in this direction. As I said, you have failed to raise the minimum wage substantially, but after 2010, you have. I would just like to add to the debate that, on the one hand, this is not an energy debate, everyone is trying to bring in other aspects and not a battery factory debate. There was such an important debate in the Parliament, it ended with no one left in your ranks, and we debated here. They're dead like batteries, Mr. Congressman. There's been such a debate in Parliament, it's important to have one, but it's not about that. With all due respect, Congressman Komjathi, it is a strange career trip if you say that you have fought against the repressive and submissive MSZ-SZDSZ government from a factory and then tried to counterbalance that by entering the MSZP and becoming its President. This is a strange career path for us, because it was the MSZP-SZDSZ, whose logo you are wearing now, and it was the president of which he thought before 2010 that the employees, under the leadership of Ferenc Gyurcsány, did not deserve the wages due to them, that they had to be charged more taxes, that almost half of their salary had to be taken by the state. That was the government that thought so and didn't leave any money. In fact, he who raised a child did not reward him, but punished him through the taking of family support. I think we should get this straight, because these are the facts from which it is worth starting. We are committed to further strengthening the Hungarian economy, because thanks to the government's economic policy, thanks to the cooperation of Hungarian people and Hungarian companies, we have made significant economic progress in recent years in terms of witness wages and economic growth. We would like to see the current sanctions and the current crisis not hinder us, and we would like to go beyond that and continue on the path that we started after 2010. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-30-239	We are now continuing the debate with the written speakers. In this context, Mr Zsolt Szabó is coming from the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2023-05-30-240	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Listening to the debate here, I am very pleased about three things that we all agreed on. One, how positive it is to have a million more people working than 12 years ago. Two, we all want to be able to pay as much as possible, especially in the next period. Three, we want a stable budget. But why I say these things: perhaps first of all, the subject of foreign labour. From abroad, there are strict rules for bringing labour, which cannot fill the needs of the missing labour force. [[18.20]] This means that the Hungarian labour force, who wants to work, still has an opportunity. The problem is that there is a shortage of labour in those areas, such as agriculture and livestock farming. But there are many industries where there is simply no candidate, and there is a shortage at the moment. The other factor that is very interesting is: I don't usually point back at the past, but let's remember 2003-2004, because the bad experience remains in us. It was then that the budget was committed to long-term wage developments by the government of that year from the resources of that year. What was the result? 2006-2007, very large public debt, we have been indebted in full. The fact that more money comes from VAT this year does not mean that the same source will be available next year. We manage responsibly when we pay attention to these factors and know how long we can stretch out, how long our blankets last. What is very interesting is the following line of thought: when we provide, manufacture, and talk about inflation, we are talking about three factors: wages, materials and energy. And there is another factor to that, and I would like to point this out to opposition speakers: when exactly are we talking about high inflation? Let's not pretend this hasn't happened in the last year and a half and we can't link it to events affecting the world economy. [[Kálmán Olga: And elsewhere? Just us?]] We need to move forward on payroll. And the different companies do so constantly, because there is competition for good workers, which has led to multiple wages; and we know and know a lot of companies that would hire and employ hundreds of employees at the moment. The other is the price of the material, mainly imported, but also produced in Hungary, which also increased. And the third is energy itself. There are food companies where energy prices have increased tenfold, and this has also caused a very serious problem in recent years and inflation itself. On the one hand, training and retraining of workers. I would like to draw everyone's attention: EFOP, TOP, direct labour subsidies through labour centres. People who need re-training are applying for it, and then all of a sudden, most of them disappear, and in the end, very few are taking the exams. Instead, let us work together on how to help these retrainings to succeed in the long term. We have the opportunity, as we've already had. Entrepreneurship support, assistance, small and medium-sized enterprise sector. Just listing the developments of the past period: Széchenyi card, interest stop, job creation grants, energy subsidies, energy renovation subsidies, factory rescue packages. There's been more of these applications, there's more of them, and there's a lot of people using them. The fact is that by the time the energy crisis came in or the period of Covid, not all businesses were prepared, and as a result, not many of these opportunities were used or lived as much as they could have. For example, the interest rate stop is currently used by 28 500 small and medium-sized enterprises. But there are steps on the part of the government that we are taking. The other thing I would like to draw attention to is mandatory action, which is a programme package that is about to start. The government would like to ensure that there are twenty categories of products subject to action continuously in each period, every week from Thursday to Wednesday, where there should be at least one product where the price is 10 percent lower than in the previous 30 days. Whoever says this isn't helping, I think you're wrong. The other is the online price monitoring system, which also means reducing inflation, because by constantly looking at and checking the direction in which prices are moving, we have reached a strong regulatory factor, which is at the edge of market management. The next thing I know, it's the food stop, although there was someone here who said it wasn't important. Well, I'd like to ask you how important a food price stop is to people who buy these products often. There is an approach that businesses are already doing well, and I would suggest that we consider this. This is specifically: when I propose, I should also say the consequences and make it possible and argue why this is good. And believe me, my fellow Members, the government is listening to these proposals. If you know a sure solution to how to keep energy prices down, if you know the sure solution to how to pay double salaries or even double pensions with a stable budget, please tell me. [[Kálmán Olga: You don't have to deal with the Russians. That's the first rule.]] This government has granted the 13th month pension, which has already been abolished once, provided a pension premium, which is actually provided from the country's output to those who have participated in it and have laid the funds and, thirdly, retains the real value of pensions. And that's what he's been paying attention to this year, like the previous years. I ask my fellow Members that when we criticize or say something, we also give our arguments and argue why we are good. In Hungary, they say that football is well-versed, and I don't know how to play football, I admit that. But I like to watch, especially when the national team wins or the Fradi wins; I always look at it. But that doesn't give me the right to add an opinion that I criticize without participating. Please, let us work together and make sure that inflation is not affected, and that we can provide wage developments. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-30-241	The representative of the Democratic Coalition, Mr Ferenc Dávid, is next. Here you go.
u2023-05-30-242	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Madam President. Mr Dömötör also started by presenting us with a slightly longer sheet and starting from 2010-11. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to start from there. At the end of May 2011, about calendarly in recent days, the second Orbán government, which had been in power for less than a year, terminated and eliminated the highest forum for domestic social dialogue, the National Stakeholder Council that had been operating for twenty years. From the perspective of 12 years, it can be well judged how much loss this step has caused to the Hungarian labour and debate culture, since the organisations set up to replace the National Stakeholder Council have not been able to fill the OÉT's place. Eliminating and eliminating the institutional forum for social dialogue has greatly contributed to the fact that, while we are at the forefront of European price competition, we are among the last in terms of wages. Unfortunately, the wage bargaining mechanism has now lost its significance, the government is only negotiating fake negotiations with the partners it has appointed, consulting and consulting only those who agree with it. This government does not like the interests of entrepreneurs and employees, the existing forums, and I name it: it operates the Permanent Consultation Forum of the Competition and Government and the National Civil Service Stakeholder Council on a savings lance. These are dictatorships, they do not seek agreement, but they may no longer be able to. The almighty state will tell you for sure in rent. The result can be seen: miserable incomes in the public sector, mass of minimum wagers in the business sector. Throughout history, we have come to know the concept of a country divided into three parts. If we create a rental map, this trinity can also be found in our country. Let's start with the public service sphere: complex tariff tables, series of promises that have not been kept, continuous inciting of career models that have either not been implemented or inflation has eaten up the increase. There's no chance of a worthy protest. The government blocked it. Teachers, nurses, workers in the social sector have lost their wages, but there are promises in the attic. The 150,000 educators have been recruited into the National Teachers' Faculty, and on this basis they do not even negotiate with the trade unions. [[Bence Rétvári: Only ten times in two months!]] The state as an employer mistreats its employees. It is well demonstrated by the Calvary of the pedagogical society: humiliation, threats, dismissal. This is the result of recent years. [[Bence Rétvári: Gergely Harvester!]] [[18.30]] Let's get to the middle and big business sector. In those sectors, I am thinking of industry and trade, where there are significant and strong employee interests, there are substantial results here and there, which the government has nothing to do with in the world. I can mention the Audit as an example in 2018, but in the near past, on May 23, Arconic-Kömélet employees held a successful warning strike in the company's factory unit in Székesfehérvár in order to achieve a higher wage level. So there are good examples, there are results, but due to the low level of organisation good practices are spreading slowly. Despite the dire circumstances, fair wage agreements can still be reached in this segment, collective agreements, if there are few, effectively protect the interests of workers. Sectoral collective agreements are not very much in the Hungarian economy; the Hungarian government is not interested in establishing collective agreements in all sectors. And here's to the circle closest to my heart, the micro- and small business circle. In this sector they work at the minimum wage of millions of Hungarian workers, possibly a guaranteed minimum wage. Fallen, defenseless, no union, no collective agreement, but there's black money, and there's 12 hours of robots a day. Here, the minimum monthly wage and the guaranteed minimum wage are of great importance, as the paying agent is bound by a legal background. Therefore, it does not matter what technique, what procedure, what approach we use to deal with this special item in the labour market. It is not about Hungary handing over the minimum wage to the European Union, I repeat: it is about technology, procedure and approach. Of course, wages must be determined by the social partners and the government together. And if I may, I would like to address the question of the euro with a half sentence. A lot of people here have talked about how much wages have increased in the last 12 to 13 years. I would like to ask you for a quick head count: the minimum wage applicable in 2010 and 2023 will be converted into euro, but if you do not go with euro, you will count it to dollars, and you will immediately see how much you have increased in terms of minimum wages, and we will never forget that we are talking about the fate of the most prospective workers here. Our lead speaker has already mentioned the consequences of this 10- to 12-year process. I'm just making a sketch that we're actually the first in inflation, the last in wages. A Western citizen earns about 3-4 times the Hungarian's, and if I even bring the French example, where the week of work is 35 hours a week, and now that it is raised, the retirement age may be 64 years, then it is possible to compare where they are. And I will also literally repeat this sentence, as Kálmán Olga said, because I so agree with him: the Orbán government does not regard low wages as a problem to be solved, but as an advantageous, desirable thing. And we also see that the cutting inflation is here with us; it is a matter of calculation that we say 20 percent if we count gun money, but if we take it out of it, real earnings in Hungary decreased by 7 percent in a year. One of the direct consequences of this long negative trend, which has not yet been discussed today, is that half a million of our people have staggered to Europe over the past decade due to poor wage conditions, and now, in 2022, the number of emigrants has risen again after 2017. And who's leaving? Our healthy, brave fellow countrymen, who want to change their own fate, have undertaken to compete abroad; their departure is a great loss for the country and for the families left at home. If we assume that the 500,000 Hungarians living in a foreign country are paying taxes and contributions, then about 250 thousand people's contributions related to public burdens will not appear in the Hungarian public finances and the central budget. The Orbán-Parragh-Nagy Márton troika in the role of the economic savior fantasies the setting of half a million new workers, which will push down the domestic wage level. At the same time, they threaten to call in Vietnamese, Indian and Mongolian migrant workers, but they do not say a word about the need, necessity and opportunity to attract Hungarians living and working in Western Europe. It is unacceptable that the Hungarian government has given up the return of departed intellectuals, skilled workers and their children with a shrug. The Orbán regime seems to regard the latest half-million-dollar Hungarian economic emigration as a write-down loss, so much so that they even create obstacles to their participation in parliamentary elections. You think Hungary is going forward. On the other hand, I see that you are going backwards. Thank you for your patience and attention. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2023-05-30-243	From the Fidesz Group, Mrs Gabriella Selmeczi is next. I'll give the floor to the congresswoman, please.
u2023-05-30-244	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! Firstly, I would like to thank the opposition representatives for initiating this debate day. I think we need to tell you what the main difference is between us sometimes. We need to see how the Fidesz-KDNP fraction, the Orbán government, thinks about the existence of Hungarian people and families, and in contrast, the opposition has ideas, how they think about the family support system, for example. For the civilian government and the Fidesz-KDNP fraction, the priority of family policy is unquestionable. We are not taking away from families during the crisis and the war, as the left did, but we are trying to provide increasing support year after year. I have tried to collect a few opposition statements and questions that the opposition has been asking us over the past few years. One of these questions is why we should not raise the family allowance. Ladies and gentlemen, The opposition representatives cannot imagine that families can be supported not only by forints, but also by benefits in kind, for example. For example, the free textbook, or such, is that if they receive children's meals free of charge in kindergartens, kindergartens, and schools. They can't imagine that. If only these subsidies are converted into HUF, then it is apparent that the family allowance has risen well beyond inflation. The opposition wants us to increase the family allowance to the same extent as inflation. Through benefits in kind, we are still doing this, so it is rather poor, by the way, what the opposition is asking for and promising on this issue. I don't think they can even promise. Ladies and gentlemen, When we talk about eating children: not only in summer but also in all holidays, we provide meals for children in need once a day. And let me highlight a very important figure: we spend three times more than 2010 on children's meals. Or I would also like to point out that in primary and secondary schools, from the 2020-21 academic year, all students will receive textbooks free of charge. I don't know how much this means in HUF has been calculated by opposition representatives. But let me also highlight the child who is subject to the right, which we have been paying to families who have had children for three years since 2010. Remember, the reason we had to restore the three years was because Klára Dobrev was the spokesperson for this, and the child was reduced from three to two years. The opposition still asks why Fidesz only supports rich families. This question is very difficult to interpret, and I would like to ask you back. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, who used to make this statement: who is rich to you? Which family is rich, and from which family should we take away, for example, the tax relief for children. Or from which family should we take away the opportunity to receive free textbooks or to receive free meals? [[18.40]] I think it is very important to say that 95% of families who have children are entitled to the family allowance. In these families, we introduced family tax relief, so we provided a much greater income increase for about 95 percent of families entitled to family allowances. If 95 percent of families are entitled to family allowances and family tax benefits, what families would they take out of this 95 percent? Like, wouldn't a doctor-educator couple be entitled to these benefits? I think you should answer that. In Hungary, there is full agreement on the connection of family support to employment. In the national consultation, which was completed by Hungarian citizens in 2018, 97.5 percent of the fillers agreed with this idea. Today in Hungary, as previous speakers have said, as a result of the government's work, there are 900 thousand more people working than in 2010 and so much more people can make use of work-based benefits. What's family support, what's help if it's not this? In a work-based society where nearly a million more people are now working, they can also benefit from family tax relief and many other family benefits. Ladies and gentlemen, The most important thing for the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Alliance and its allies is that every desired child can be born and that families can be supported as much as possible. This is what we will be working for in the coming months and years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-30-245	It is now up to Mr Márton Gyöngyösi, Member of Jobbik's European Parliament, who is also speaking about the pulpit. I give the floor to the congressman. Here you go.
u2023-05-30-246	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear House, In the declining West, most societies 60-70 years ago decided that their members no longer wanted to stand by the tape, they didn't want to do cheap work for food. Rather, they went to college or started a business, and the cheap work was left to the migrant workers. This is the Western multicultural model. We have another model here in Hungary. It is also multi, but culture is rapidly building, because this Hungarian model, developed in the past 30 years in balliberal and fidesz co-production, is about the fact that guest workers will work alongside the tape to get paid, but Hungarians can join them instead of university and their own business, or they can go to the West and the country will be eliminated. I remember that around 2015 Fidesz explained its certificate that it is true that there is greater prosperity in the West and that we are poor, but there is no immigration here. We've come to the point that we're poor and there's immigration, and, from what I hear, people smugglers are now released from prison. Is this the new recruitment method in the world of twisted Orbán mentality? At the time, Rákosi and Kádár wanted to build a country of iron and steel, and the Irish core of Hungarian citizenship was also wiped out. Fidesz is a worthy successor to this spiritual heritage. They're building the country of the Chinese battery companies. This requires not self-conscious citizenship and not a strong middle class, but a needless and untrained crowd, who can then be manipulated at will by their propaganda and do not ask questions. And if you want more, you can still leave the country, you're free to go. This is the balance of the last 30 years, which brought us 12 years of balliberal and 17 years of fidesz domination. I was talking about Fidesz, but what does the left-wing opposition offer? They're talking minimum wage and handing out free cash on the subject. We Jobbik-Conservatives, on the other hand, believe in a different kind of Hungary, a Hungary where people do not want a fidesz communist price cap and not a left-wing post-communist free money, because Hungarian people don't want charity or charity, but want to live in a European way from their talent and honest work. Today, as the only party in Hungary, we believe in a country the backbone of which is given by a strong middle class, a self-conscious, entrepreneurial, well-trained citizenship; a Hungary that does not offer cheap ribbon work to its young people, but quality education, a recognised degree and decently paying jobs. That is why we launched our wage Union initiative with our European partners back in 2016, and that is why we stand in favour of the state, as the largest employer, paying the civil servants fairly, setting high and not low standards for Hungarian salaries. This is why we demand that instead of polluting chemical plants using foreign migrant workers, the government considers Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises as strategic partners. That is why we demand quality education instead of fidesz cadre trainers and quality jobs instead of cheap ribbon work. That is why we demand that the government take action against the record high inflation that destroys the middle class and abolish the communist price caps, from which all Hungarians are fed up. For a thousand years, our historical greats have always worked for a European Hungary looking towards the West, and our traitors have always looked to the East. It is no different now, and we will continue to fight for Europe's Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2023-05-30-247	Mr Mihály Witzmann, from the Fidesz Group, is next. Here you go.
u2023-05-30-248	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Ladies and gentlemen, We have heard quite a few speeches today. In my comment, I would like to respond to some of the left-wing criticisms I have just heard, and I would also like to briefly share some of the positive changes in wages in Hungary during the years of civil governance, and I would also like to remind my fellow left-wing Members in particular of the situation with wages when they were in the government. In recent years, the government, in cooperation with the social partners, has made considerable efforts to increase wages and encourage employment. The government has been able to further enhance this impact by introducing and continuously expanding family tax incentives. At the same time, it can be concluded that much more people now live on labour income in Hungary than they did in the years before the 2010 government change, but not just that there are many more people working, but those who work make much more money than ever since the change of regime. It is a special pleasure that the annual increase in the rate of family tax relief also gives workers an ever higher income. Since 2010, the national government has been constantly reducing labour taxes, and the public sector has started a comprehensive wage increase programme, and businesses have been helped by tax cuts to raise wages and, in the difficult situation caused by the epidemic, keep jobs and wages. It is clear that the government remains in favour of the Hungarian economy, the interests of the Hungarian people, it protects the interests of the Hungarian people, and instead of the former aid-based society, which is customary under socialist governments, it has created a real work-based society. We can also see that the left has made it clear and clear on several occasions in recent years that it does not support the increase in wages. In the various votes, in the budgetary votes, in the debates and on other occasions, all tax reductions on labour were rejected and, inter alia, no support was granted to teachers, health workers, police officers, soldiers or other public service workers. It follows that the left would pursue the same economic policy as he did during his governance. They did not defend the jobs and incomes of the Hungarian people, but they also gave up the sovereignty of our country. With this, practically one million people were unemployed, and because they were all subject to foreign profits, they often worked Hungarian people for humiliatingly low wages. [[18.50]] The salaries were subject to high taxes, and wages were frozen throughout sectors, and even one month's wages were taken from public service workers. Nor did they regret that hundreds of thousands of people were merely on aid. It is also important to stress that during the time of left-wing governments, in 2009, the tax wedge was more than 53 percent above the average wage. Let's look at how actions have evolved at national level in recent years, namely between 2010 and 2022. Average earnings continued to increase, with average gross earnings rising from 2010 to 2022 reaching 154.7 per cent, while net average earnings rose by about 158.7 per cent without taking into account family benefits and by about 167.9 per cent, taking into account family tax incentives. The increase in real earnings without discounts was 71 percent and 77.1 percent with the inclusion of discounts. With regard to the change in earnings depending on the number of children, it can be concluded that the net income of the childless population increased by 162.7 percent, 203.2 percent for the parent of one child, 249 percent for the two children and 250.7 percent for the three or more children. It can be calculated that from 2010 to 2022, there was a 73.7 per cent increase for childless people, 100.5 per cent for single children, 130.7 per cent for two children and 131.8 per cent for three or more children over 12 years. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, during the eight-year government of socialist-liberal governments, gross average earnings increased by only 65.5 percent and real earnings by only 13.8 percent, and family tax relief as such did not exist. Well, if we look at how earnings and wages have evolved in recent years, then we can say that not only the KSH, which the opposition representatives generally do not accept as an objective source of information, but also the rise in earnings continued in 2023 on the basis of Eurostat's statements, and if we compare the rate of the increase in wages between 2010 and 2023, we can see around 2.7 times the increase in wages. If we want to illustrate this with the minimum wage or with the guaranteed minimum wage, we can see that the 2010 minimum wage of 73 500 forints became 232 thousand forints by 2023, which is more than three times the increase, so it is even higher than the average; the same trend can be seen at the guaranteed minimum wage, where we are already at 296 400 forints. This is, by the way, the fourth largest increase in the European Union in this regard. And I also looked up eurostat statistics, Hungary in the year of the economic downturn, in 2020, when there was a significant economic downturn throughout Europe due to the coronal virus epidemic, it was also able to achieve a real wage rise. The minimum wage earlier, during left-wing governments, between 2002 and 2010, in eight years, if we look at it, the gross minimum wage has only increased by 47 percent, while inflation has been much higher by 51 percent. When, therefore, the current high inflation and wage increases are cast on the government's eyes by the left-wing representatives, this figure, this balance pair, should in any case be used as a basis. And finally, I think, if we are talking about wage increases, we can clearly say that we are not still where we would like to be, and our goal remains to ensure that wage increases, which have been seen in recent years, can take place in the years ahead, as well, in the period ahead, and, in parallel, in reverse, we would like to reduce sanctioned inflation to one digit by the end of the year, as far as possible, according to the government's plans. These increases in wages, which I spoke about in the light of the figures, and once again, I have not brought domestic, but eurostatistic statistics primarily, have been achieved by Hungarian people, by facing historical challenges and historical challenges such as an inherited public debt in 2010, after which a mass, illegal and still-to-day illegal migration, immigration, or I could mention the coronal virus epidemic, the pandemic, previously known only from history books, and, of course, the war in our eastern neighbourhood. I therefore propose to my fellow opposition Members that, when speaking in this debate today, they should in any case express their views taking into account these facts. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-30-249	It is now up to Mr István Apáti of the Group of our country in the remaining timeframe. Here you go.
u2023-05-30-250	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, According to the Hungarian Movement, the current governing parties with two-thirds mandate have far more room to improve the situation of employers and workers than they would otherwise like to live with. Without the need for completeness, let me tell you a few things. One of these could be the reduction of employers' and workers' public burdens, according to the Hungarian Movement. The other could be the introduction of simplified and highly preferential forms of taxation to the extreme. In this regard, you committed the exact opposite of the opposite in July last year, as would have been reasonable: instead of wide-opening the possibility of kata, it was virtually narrowed down or almost completely removed; since then, we see that those who could have used the possibility of cata have paid double or triple public space. Instead of narrowing it down, it should have been expanded. And there is a fundamental difference in world view and values, in view of the differences between the governing parties and the Hungarian Movement, and this is that you believe that instead of Chinese battery companies, which represent a technological, technical and economic evolutionary dead end, we should set up domestic-owned, mostly or 100% domestic-owned food processing plants, according to the Hungarian Movement. There is therefore a need for a processing industry, but not for chemical plants, Chinese-owned chemical plants, but for food processing, in addition to helping people by breaking down energy and food prices, since the most important issue is real wages, this is not clear from the name or address of the debate day, but the important thing is what Hungarian workers or Hungarian businesses know, how much they can buy from their monthly money after taxes and public charges are paid. This is significantly eaten by food inflation on the one hand and increased energy prices on the other. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] According to the view of our country, you have underestimated the average consumption of both electricity and gas, so a lower subsidised price, expressed in cubic metres or kilowatt hours, should be provided up to a much higher level. The terrible gas price of 747 HUF above the quota could be reduced in a calm way, as the world market price for gas allows for it, or if you actually buy it from the Russians at a fifth price, as the Prime Minister said last February, then it is impossible to understand why a cubic meter of gas costs 747 HUF. Not to mention that if they wanted to, I could help people with less targeted subsidies for food self-sufficiency, as this would ensure not only food security, the independence of food supply, which would be important not only at the level of individual households, but also a key issue for national security. And in energy policy, whether you like it or not, gas supply will remain a neural point for a long time, and we may have to give up cheap Russian gas in the long term or even permanently, but we may not have to give up cheap Hungarian gas, so let me draw the attention of honourable pro-government representatives to an undeserved subject: it is worth starting a holy war, a freedom fight for the recovery of 60 years of Hungarian gas in the Mako trench, even if it is likely that it would be necessary to clash with very hard American interest groups, because this is a fundamental, key issue in order to avoid the survival of the nation and total hyperinflationary, but you are somehow silent about it, and they dare not even talk about the possibility of cheap Hungarian gas. Thank you very much.
u2023-05-30-251	Thank you very much, Congressman Abbot. Péter Cseresnyés, a representative of Fidesz, is next. [[19.00]]
u2023-05-30-252	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, would like to join my colleague, Gabriella Selmeczi, in thanking you for the opportunity to discuss a lot on this debate on employment, wages, and perhaps we can safely conclude that today's debate is about the major issues, areas and topics that determine the lives of people. I think there are two basic reasons for this rating. One of the reasons is that the factor influencing our everyday life and our sense of security is that there is work, how employment in our country develops, and how much people earn at work is also a very, very important question. The other reason is that there has been so much misleading information and promise about the left-wing opposition over the past period and here today that it is worth clarifying the issues and facts relating to wages, employment, income relations, tax incentives, security. Mr Sándor Czomba, Mr Csaba Dömötör, Mr Erik Bánki and President Lőrinc Nacsa have done this in detail, but it is worth confirming some facts, even all the facts that have been created in this area since 2010, for you, fellow Members. To understand, it is necessary to say the truth again, because you left-wing politicians do not see or want to see or even consciously try to mislead people by distorting the facts or making promises. You, your ancestors, your allies left after 2010 a ruined economy to the then Orbán government, with the undisclosed aim of stressing out of the rubble that you left behind, the then government will not be able to build and build. But we knew, conspiring with the people, and it seems to hurt you very much, honourable left-wing Members. Just one example that may be most disturbing to you, and what has been said several times in the House's walls during today's debate: the number of people employed has increased by about one million over the last ten years. This has been achieved with a conscious economic policy supporting job creation and families, which has helped to increase employment, and, in parallel with the increase in the number of jobs, wages have steadily increased, which has been said several times today in terms of average wages, gross or net, and not only in this, but also their purchasing value has increased by more than 70%. In your time and in the time of your allies, it was only 14 percent. These are facts, and if you want to argue with facts, you can either shut them up or lie; you usually use both tools in your verbal struggle. Let us look at some data that have helped to strengthen income conditions or point to the strengthening of income conditions itself. This has also been said several times, but must be repeated in order to be accepted and understood. The minimum wage in 2002 was 50,000 forints. In eight years you raised 23 500 HUF, 73 500 HUF in 2010, and now more than 500 thousand HUF [[Sic!]] minimum wage. [[A statement from Jobbik: What are you talking about?]] The average wage in 2002 was 122 thousand, in 2010 it was 202 thousand forints, nowadays it is well over 500 thousand forints. I'm sorry, I was wrong before. The minimum wage was 232,000 forints. And let me respond to the suggestion of Ferenc David, because he was trying to make me believe that this increase in wages in terms of minimum wage or average wage, if expressed in euro, would mean almost nothing. I have done a quick calculation, Congressman David: if we look at the minimum wage, the minimum wage in euros has increased by about double in the perspective of 2010 and 2023. [[Bence Rétvári: You can only count in dollars!]] ; if you look at the average wage, this represents an increase of between 70 and 80 percent, it is worth counting. This is the result of the economic policy supporting the creation of jobs, which has produced significant results in cooperation with the entrepreneurial sphere. Let me just give you one piece of data on job creation as a taste of the short period of time: in 2010, when you handed over the steering column, there was 59 percent employment in the 20-64 age group, this was the era of the Gyurcsány era and your socialist governance; in 2023, employment in the same age group was around 80 percent, slightly above 80 percent. Those are the facts. And so that you can't bring up the cliché that you've given me to set up the assembly plants, let me give you an example that comes from my constituency. I live in Nagykanizsa, in Nagykanizsa, unemployment was more than 12% in 2010; now, after two years of Covid and after the failed sanctions policy in Brussels, this unemployment rate is around 4 percent on the national average. This has been achieved thanks to the fact that Hungarian small and micro enterprises operating here, among other things, have exploited and exploited the resulting development, training and employment subsidies, so today there are around 2 thousand more people working in my city than in 2010. There are several local Hungarian entrepreneurs who have developed their micro-business into a small enterprise and are now working effectively with dozens of colleagues and working on and thinking about further developments. And if you wouldn't stop us from constantly transferring EU money, not doing our country and our people's betrayal in the EU Parliament and institutional system, we would be able to deliver more and better common results in terms of employment and wage growth than we are today. I think that you, the representatives of the left-wing DK to Jobbik, are most frustrated by the fact that you call the results with a milder definition, despite your slides, you understand, people feel, and most people also know that if you were at the bar, you would have no idea what to do for the Hungarians, Hungary; this has already been thoroughly proven by you between 1994 and 1998 and 2002-2010. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-30-253	Thank you very much, Congressman Péter Cseresnyés. The next speaker is Máté Kanász-Nagy, representative of the LMP.
u2023-05-30-254	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to continue with alternatives and solutions, really briefly. In general, greening and greening are what are needed, and everything that is green is everything that is green, and everything that is green has a significant job-creating effect and has a wage-enhancing effect. [[Bence Rétvári: Except the battery companies!]] Let me give you an example. Obviously, if we build, say, a nuclear power plant, it creates jobs primarily for Russian engineers and Russian investors, but if we try to isolate hundreds of thousands of residential properties every year, we need tens of thousands of extra workers. If you're thinking about renewable energy sources, installing wind wheels, installing solar panels, you need a lot of hands, engineering skills, engineering work and professional work. And we're about to get to the point where the alternative always starts from education. They cannot show me a country that has been able to show any kind of catch-up, growth or development without first reaching out to education, whether we are talking about Far Eastern countries or we are talking about Scandinavian countries, because it doesn't work any other way. If they do not spend much, much, much more on education, much more on the basis of GDP, let alone compared to the average of the EU countries, then no progress or catch-up can start from here. I would like to give you a simple example of why this is so. Let's take a look at, say, the value chain for battery production. Here I must call upon the concept of economics, which is called a smile curve. Where's the smile in this smile curve? Well, it's on both ends. It is at the beginning, which means inventing a particular product and service, this is R &amp; D activity, innovation, designing something. This requires serious knowledge, and with everything that comes with serious knowledge, there's money, there's actually a part of the big profit on the part of the companies that we could benefit from. And there's the other end, which is sales, logistics, which is marketing; it also requires a great deal of knowledge, supported by a growing education system. Now, in the case of battery production, we're between the two, right, this smile curve, it's not the smile, it's the crying and the pain: it's production, production and assembly, so it's the physical activity that brings the least added value. If you invest in this, you'll be killing hundreds and thousands of billions, and we'll always be here, and in ten years' time, in 20 years' time and 30 years' time, we'll still be putting you together. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Now, this isn't going to be any progress or catching up, it's going to be the green solution. Thank you very much. [[19.10]]
u2023-05-30-255	Thank you very much, Congressman Máté Kanász-Nagy. On behalf of the government, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, he has a 15-minute timeframe.
u2023-05-30-256	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to begin my speech with the words of the left-wing shadow minister Klára Dobrev, who assessed the left-wing crisis management in 2008-2009:, We managed to save the banks, the economy, but we could not save the people, Klára Dobrev said. This was not an accidental statement, but also a reason why the left-wing government did not save people at the time, why it took wages from teachers, policemen, firefighters, nurses, doctors, teachers and social workers a month, i.e. 8 percent of the wages, he said in this interview that the European Union did not allow the government to pursue other policies. That's what she says to Klara Dobrev. She must have heard it firsthand, since at home she and her husband Ferenc Gyurcsány discussed what she could and couldn't do. He says that the problem was not the Hungarian crisis management alone, but the European one. He said to Klara Dobrev. So the shadow minister of the left admits that this crisis management was essentially a failure in 2008-2009, because people were not helped, only by the banks. In fact, all the people experienced it, which is why the clear majority of Hungarian voters swept away the left-wing government in 2010 because they were submerging the left-wing party by bringing in two other parties, Jobbik and LMP, so they were swept away, because that is what really happened. They did not pay attention to people, nor pay wages, nor to jobs, as they allowed the economy to go downhill in such a way that unemployment would escape above 11 per cent; nor wages, since a month's wage was taken from people who worked in the public sector. That's the power of the left. It can be embellished, it is possible to say nice theoretical sentences now, obviously, if a seminar were to be introduced into economics or an introduction to job creation at a university or college, then it might even sound nicely and they would believe it. But the test of pudding is eating, as the English have said for centuries, and indeed the test of this pudding was when it became mass unemployment and people's wages were reduced. This is the failure of the left. There are many things to say now, but unfortunately, this is the case in practice. Let us look at a few examples: after 2010, when Brussels does not tell us what to do, because only half of this sentence is that the Hungarian people have been bad at governing the left, and the other is that they will never be good at it, because Brussels will always tell the Hungarian left what to do, all they do today is to say to Brussels what they say here in Parliament as well as a little echo, here we will hear it one week, and in three weeks we will hear the same thing back from Brussels, because they say the same thing in the same place. [[Kálmán Olga: Obviously it's better to play with Putin, isn't it?]] So you don't have a chance. On the one hand, they proved to be incompetent, and on the other hand, they gave up their sovereignty. The person who gets his campaign support in dollars will not be curtsy after that, but, as a nice, decent lab, he will fit into the world from which they came. How much did a beginner doctor make so let's look at the BM areas, how much did a beginner doctor make in 2010? [[Kálmán Olga: I think you should tell me about the ruble.]] The gross basic wage is HUF 129 thousand. How much are you making right now? The gross basic wage is not HUF 129 thousand, but HUF 687,000. How much did a doctor who worked 20 years make? 165,000 forints. How much does he make now instead of 165,000 forints? Everybody think of a number. 1 million 491,000 forints. How much did a doctor working 30 years ago make at the beginning of our administration? 225,000 forints. How much are you making now? 1 million 794 thousand forints. And a doctor near the end of his career, who has the most experience, how much money did he make at the beginning of our government? The gross basic wage for this is, of course, realized in both cases, the surplus for the on-call and other, the basic wage was at that time 262,000 forints, and now 2 million 380,000 forints. There is a very significant difference between these two. The left was about introducing a visitation fee and gratuity money shouldn't be punished. We led out the gratuity money, and we radically increased the wages. This is the difference between the activities of the two governments, and besides, while the left has laid off 16,000 health workers, the number of health workers and doctors has not decreased in our time, but there are thousands more doctors now than there were in 2010 at the beginning of our administration. Let us look at the nurses, where we have not finished much of the wage increase, because there will be more noticeable wage increases in July and next year. At the beginning of our administration, a beginner with a higher education degree started a gross salary of 126 thousand forints, which is now 422,000 forints. A nurse with a higher education and already 20 years of experience earned 149 thousand forints at the beginning of our government. Now he earns 493,000 forints, which is what the additional increases will figure out, about 18 percent from July 1st, and then next year the next raise. The gross basic salary of a medical worker with a secondary education, i.e. a lower education, was 91 thousand forints at the beginning of our government in 2010, now 340 thousand forints. A nurse who worked for 20 years worked in secondary school had a basic salary of 106 thousand forints in 2010, now it is 389 thousand forints. So when the left talks about chasing away health workers, and the rest, and the rest. [[Kálmán Olga: El! The last one, turn off the lights.]] and saying similar sentences, on the one hand, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the number of doctors seeking authorisation to work abroad has decreased radically to less than a third, and these certificates should be given to them for foreign work, so they have been significantly reduced. In addition, the number of medical students at the university increased from 1000 to 1500, thus increasing by one and a half times the number of graduates. [[Kálmán Olga: They are not home anymore!]] There are Hungarians among them, and there are foreigners, as there were Hungarians in 2010 and there were foreigners. So, obviously, foreign students are involved in this, but this figure has increased by one and a half times. Compared to this, the left can show that 16,000 workers have been laid off and their wages have been reduced, honourable Members. Therefore, I would suggest some caution when speaking on this subject. Social workers: they also took their wages. The average wage in the social sphere in 2010 was 137 thousand forints. This is in the area of 400 thousand forints from 1 January this year. Last year it was 370 thousand, this year it was 400 thousand forints that they made. There is much to be said on this, we all know, but nevertheless it is far, far higher than what the left has offered to these people. [[Kálmán Olga: They can make a living from this! And how much is inflation?]] But if you look at police wages, you can see here that an officer, an officer with a higher education degree, has increased by 140 percent, a deputy officer with a secondary education, and ten years of service has increased by 113 percent in recent years. Here again, there will be another announced wage increase next year, as we announced that both nurses and law enforcement workers will have a wage increase next year. Now, let's look at the teachers. Maybe in the last few weeks, months, we've talked about them the most. One starting salary in 2010 was 129 500 HUF. This year it is 391,000 forints, and we would like to raise it as high as possible, using our EU funds as well. If a 20-year-old university professor turned in his portfolio, he classified himself as a teacher. in 2010 he made 172 thousand forints, now he earns 442,000 forints. A college-educated educator intern earns 122 thousand forints, compared to that he now earns 391 thousand forints. A 20 - year - old student with a college degree, teacher II. graduated teacher made 149 thousand forints at the beginning of our administration. He is now earning 397 thousand forints, and this is what he would realize if the left finally stopped this shameful activity of the unprecedented EU source in the Hungarian wage increase, of which we would like to increase the wages of teachers from 800 billion forints in the coming years, so that this year, somewhere around 560 thousand forints, next year around 680,000 forints, and then in 2025 around 800 thousand forints. It appears that we have tried to make these increases so that, in most sectors, the increase in wages is higher than the increase in GDP in most years, so that those working for others feel that their wages are rising even more than the overall growth of the economy. [[19.20]] However, what the left is doing in the only area where he has some influence on how to increase wages because most of us, let's say, we bear the responsibility for this, we give the majority of governments here in Parliament for 13 years, we bear the responsibility for the budget and tax laws adopted, well, there's a small part of the cake, a tiny slice where the left has influence. After all, here in Hungary, the Hungarian people have decided to give Fidesz-KDNP overwhelming majority confidence for the fourth time, but in Brussels there is a majority on the left, left-wing thinking is in the majority, and this is the only place they use to try to prevent Hungarian wage increases because they want to punish Hungarian people because they want revenge on Hungarian people, and they want to retaliate here that they did not vote for them. Therefore, what can hold back EU funds is being held back. Ladies and gentlemen, When the Hungarian negotiating delegation went out to the European Commission last week to discuss the new career law, what else did you hear? He heard what left-wing politicians said at home a few days earlier, almost literally, almost in the same logical order. [[Kálmán Olga: Because it is the truth.]] The European Commission has already acknowledged that there has been a very broad consultation on the new education career law, that many organisations and governments have been thoroughly consulted. [[Kálmán Olga: With whom?]] He also acknowledged that the government accepted the proposals of the social partners on many issues and incorporated these amendments widely, but we heard nothing but the completely false argument of the Hungarian left. For example, when they talk about the decline in autonomy in the faculty, they do not realize that, in fact, during their own period, the regulation was almost exactly what they are attacking when they say that certain regulations are not adopted by the faculty, but by the maintainers. [[Balázs Barkóczi: Only schools were not nationalized!]] Of course, you do not mind that during the eight years of your own government, these regulations have been adopted by the maintainer, because they are only specifically attacking the government with everything they think is possible, and they are somewhat accepting it for you in certain circles. And what we have seen today as a stunt, as a lecture from the Hungarian left, revenge and retaliation against Hungarian people, another peak of revenge and retaliation against teachers, when the MEP and party president of the Momentum stood up and said that the conditions were not enough so far, Brussels should impose more conditions so as not to allow EU funds to arrive in Hungary, and that we can not turn it into a teacher's wage increase, because they see that the Hungarian government has fulfilled all its commitments, which were an earlier condition, that Hungary has fulfilled those conditions, and that these conditions will enter into force as of June. Therefore, Brussels is asked to come up with additional conditions so as not to have the resources needed to raise the wages of teachers. [[Kálmán Olga: So you can't steal it!]] Show me another country where MEPs, MEPs, MEPs and representatives of national Parliaments ask Brussels that, given that Hungary has clearly fulfilled all the conditions, there should be no new EU funding for small businesses, civil society organisations, government, energy or anything else, but especially by sharpening it to the teacher's wage increase. This kind of heartlessness, such a vendetta against educators, has not been seen by a European country, as the Hungarian left does with it [[Kálmán Olga: Like what the Orbán government does.]] I'm sure he's demanding more and more conditions. He does not say that the Hungarian Government, the Hungarian Parliament, has fulfilled all the original commitments, but demands Brussels to raise new conditions so that a penny does not arrive. [[Noise in opposition benches.]] because they want to punish Hungarian people for not choosing them. This path, of course, will not lead to success, because just as it has not been driving, it will not lead. Trying to use the remaining power they have left in Brussels to make sure that the funds needed to raise the wages of Hungarian teachers do not arrive in Brussels, they may think, because of their internal pride and their insults, that they will settle the bill if the Hungarian people have not voted for them, that they are now well off, because then there will be no EU funds, and then they will see how bad they have been, that they have voted for Fidesz-KDNP. [[Interventions from opposition parties.]] But the Hungarian people see this because most of the politicians working against their own country despise it because I think we are Hungarians for the first time, we are first grateful to those teachers who raised us in kindergarten, elementary school and high school, and also to our children, and we are grateful to them, and we want them to earn better money, to have a better value for their career, and then we may argue about certain things here, but when it comes to our children's educators, this should not be prevented by the left, but rather promoted. It is regrettable that today the Hungarian left has issued a certificate of poverty, because these momentous politicians have gone out and said so, and no one, no one, has said about the left, that this is a lot, he doesn't agree with this either. In Hungarian, you agree with this; if the government performs 27 milestones, then let it be a 28th, but the Hungarian people do not have access to their resources. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-30-257	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We now have two-minute comments, first from Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, MSZP.
u2023-05-30-258	Thank you very much. Dear House, The pay gap between women and men varies widely across Europe. In 2021, women earned on average 12.7 percent less than men per hour. Some of the Member States with a rent-a-scissors of around 20 percent: Estonia, Austria, Germany and Hungary. There are Member States that have already eliminated the gender pay gap, such as Luxembourg, and there are many Member States where the wage gap is virtually around 5%, such as Romania, Slovenia, Poland, Italy and Belgium. The data speaks for itself. On average, women do hours of work without pay, like men. Women spend more time on unpaid work, i.e. much more on housework and child rearing than men. Unfortunately, it gives women less time to do paid work. At present, about a third of women work part-time, and if we take into account unpaid and paid work, women work much more weekly than men. It is also a fact that women have a much higher chance of leaving or interrupting their careers in the labour market because of caregivers or other family obligations than men, and it can also be observed that women's career choices are greatly influenced by the expectation that they are essentially responsible for the fulfilment of caregivers' or family obligations. It is very important that the European Parliament has adopted a proposal which, unfortunately, Hungarian pro-government representatives have not voted for, which is how to reduce pay differences between women and men. Obviously, there is a chance that this rent-a-scissors will be closed, but this must obviously also be done by the Hungarian government. The new rules are an obligation for workers with more than 100 employees [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the transparency of payments, the assessment of the performance of workers and the abolition of gender discrimination. I'll continue from here. Thank you.
u2023-05-30-259	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next two-minute comment is Ms Kálmán Olga, DK.
u2023-05-30-260	Thank you very much. I was interested in listening to the Fidesz Members of Parliament, their contributions, as they said, how good everything is here, how brilliant things have been done by the Orbán government. And I thought that, for once, they could listen to your great ideologist, thinker, Viktor Orbán's favourite stooge, and be brave, as their great thinker would say: be brave, go out among the people, not surrounded by cordons, go out among the people, and tell them how well they earn, how well they live, how much wealth, how well the families have benefited, and how everyone who thinks that your child, your grandson, has fled abroad to work because that is how you want to achieve yourself, and not because of the vision that the government has made you impossible, it is all lying. That's what they explain to people on the street. You guys should get out of here. Listen to Lőrinc Mészáros, who, by the way, is in the budget right now, I read that he's going to get 200 billion for freeway operations. Much is said about this EU money, so that the left does not prevent it, we are asked that EU money come. The only thing you should do is not steal the money of EU citizens and Hungarian taxpayers. Don't steal! This is the only one you'll take. Thank you.
u2023-05-30-261	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Ms Gabriella Selmeczi, Member of the Fidesz.
u2023-05-30-262	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Not long ago, our fellow Member Márton Gyöngyösi found that this current government is a worthy successor to the Rákosi and Szalasi governments. I definitely have to decline that statement. I do not know what drives Márton Gyöngyösi more, the hatred of the Orbán government and the Fidesz representatives, or perhaps the rolling dollars, but this statement is unworthy of the Hungarian Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Peter Cseresnyés: That's right! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[19.30]]
u2023-05-30-263	Thank you very much. Two minutes from now, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2023-05-30-264	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to respond to Mrs Gurmai's speech. I think it is a very important goal that you have said that women and men are looking for the same way, and obviously that women are often at home with children for several years, even six or eight years, in their careers, and the state has to make up for it, and it has to be balanced, because they do a lot for families, for children, for raising children, and it is important to compensate for it. That's why we introduced the 40 as a kind of discount, and that's why we were confident that the left could support it, but couldn't support it, because that's exactly the disadvantage that women can compensate for, or count on, in terms of actions, the years spent raising children. It's either family-type tax incentives or four-year-old mothers' absence. These tax incentives exactly help the whole family-type taxation to try for those who have been rich for three years, six years, eight years, to settle, then start with similar incomes, because less tax is to be paid. Too bad you didn't support them. Kálmán Olga, get out among the people. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As the chairman of the constituency, we do this mostly, we live among the people, which is why you call us the populist, because you are the intellectuals. [[A statement from DK: No, that's not why!]] We're the buggers. You who know Europe, and we who have a lot of pants and the like; these were insults in the '90s, and that's why we're being pooped. [[Kálmán Olga: Not for this!]] because we live and think the way people do, and you often don't like it. [[Zoltán Varga: That's not what he said, Bence!]] I saw in Vácon so crowded that Ferenc Gyurcsány arrived at 3:00 p.m. on Saturday afternoon, even 300 free-lighters, that Ferenc Gyurcsány didn't arrive at the end, because, let's just say, the circle was very narrow, and that was not enough for Ferenc Gyurcsány. However, I would like to draw attention to Ferenc Gyurcsány's statement that there is no need to lie, we were there. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That's what he told you, he missed a record. Gyurcsány said you can now admit that you are blocking the EU's resources. And how a teacher raise would be stealing, I still don't get it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-05-30-265	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next speaker is Congressman Attila Gelencsér, Fidesz.
u2023-05-30-266	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It is strange to look at the opposition benches on a political debate day initiated by the opposition. Two thirds are not here, one third of those who are present are in a minority, and all of this, by the way, is being taught about meeting people. [[Kálmán Olga: Good advice!]] In most of us, we are individual Members of Parliament, we cannot not meet people. The thing is, if you don't know Kálmán Olga, I'll help you with your individual representation work, it looks like we're going to visit about 800 and 1000 events in a cycle, mingle with people, spend 2-3 hours on a simple village day [[Kálmán Olga: Can you mingle? That's good.]] And imagine we're talking to people on these occasions. However, if you ask those who are there when you push the Carmelite monastery about their opinion of the country, you can really get stuck in a bubble, I understand that this is why there's a wolf blindness. [[Bence Rétvári: Autumn blindness!]] And they don't see the real reality. But who does 800 reception hours in four years and 800 events, and goes to his constituency, where he takes care of 60-80 thousand people and their daily problems. [[Kálmán Olga: When was the last time you were in a store?]] and yet we are here in Parliament on your political debate day, which you are not here on. [[Zoltán Varga: It was a baroque exaggeration! Kálmán Olga: More than you are now!]] it shows why most opposition voters are probably thinking of a change of opposition, because they simply cannot be expected to do their job, nor do they do their job. Not only are they not doing good opposition work, they are not doing any work. A third of them are here. Where's two thirds? What is more important today than the political debate that you have initiated for you? [[Kálmán Olga intervenes.]] I think that you should be here right now, that would be the minimum, especially for the list Members, who I can't imagine at all what is more important to them today; I might even be able to absolve individuals. I understand these things in the debate, I am trying to understand your argument system, when everything is worse in Hungary, but this is what we are tired of. But the thing is, if you ask the Western European citizen so honestly what it is not easy for me to do, of course, because of my situation, but this is now less interesting for Swiss ascendants and relatives in Germany, the inhabitants of an Austrian sister settlement, so there are many people I can talk to. The thing today, dear left representatives, is that my cousin, who is a senior nurse and her husband, who is a soldier in Germany, claims to me that if one of you loses a job with the rich and you think it's better in Germany in all respects, then you should sell your house. It is quite obvious that their children have two children, two beautiful daughters cannot live on the existential standard they have lived on, but it is getting worse and worse, from generation to generation. This is what you think is the bright West, which we should monkey about in every way. The problem is that the limited publicity that is characteristic of Western Europe, where these complaint price data do not come out, but the constituency is not only missing, it seems that there is also a lack of dialogue with the Western European citizen. Now, I'd like to get to the point of my comment. There is sanctions for inflation both in Europe and in Hungary. We have to pay a penalty for energy, which is reflected in transport costs and thus also in food prices, and has a serious negative impact on the everyday life of Hungarian families. Therefore, against price increases, we have introduced a system of public prices for basic foods, price monitoring, mandatory action, and increased the rate of disposable income in net income by means of measures to protect public health and the maintenance of the standard of living. The government's primary objective is to protect Hungarian families. Therefore, in January 2022 we decided to introduce a price stop for certain basic foods. In February 2022, price regulation came into force, covering basic foods the price of which cannot be higher than the price of 15 October 2021. These include, inter alia, crystal sugar, wheat flour or chicken breasts. In November 2022, we extended the scope of the basic foods to which a price stop applies and extended the food price stop until June 23rd. In addition, we are constantly looking for instruments to further reduce inflation. That's why we decided to set up an online price monitoring database. The aim of the online price monitoring service is to make available to the public a database that enables the development of consumer prices to be compared in a transparent manner and prevents overpriced prices and at the same time significantly enhances competition in the domestic retail sector. The price monitoring system shall be completed by 30 June at the latest. The price monitoring system will be a public electronic database accessible to all, showing the daily sales prices and prices of food products covered by more than 60 product categories per trader and shop. In the end, the service contributes to increasing competition in the retail sector in line with the interests of consumers and, overall, helps to reduce inflation to one digit by the end of the year. In an unprecedented inflation and money market environment due to the corona virus epidemic, war and sanctions, interest rates have also increased drastically for the general public and businesses. [[19.40]] In this difficult situation, the financial stability of households and businesses and the security of housing had to be preserved. Therefore, the government decided to introduce the retail interest rate stop in January 22. Later, in November 22, we expanded our business and extended it on May 11, 23 to protect households and small and medium-sized enterprises from the negative effects of a high yield environment. We will maintain the measure until the central bank base rate falls below 10%. The residential interest rate stop has already protected some 350,000 families against high interest rates. Currently, the interest-protected loan portfolio of the affected customers, some 300,000 families, exceeds HUF 1360 billion. The interest rate stop supports families with HUF 80 billion in 22 and HUF 60 billion in 23 respectively, i.e. it takes a total cost of HUF 140 billion off the shoulders of families. As far as enterprises are concerned, at the time of the introduction of an extended interest-rate-stop institution for SMEs, 60 and currently 28,5 thousand companies have a loan of nearly HUF 1000 billion under this measure. Companies can save about HUF 80-85 billion from November 22 until the end of June 23. This will make a significant contribution to maintaining the stability, performance and employment of the SME sector. The extension of the interest rate stop in the second half of 23 could result in an additional savings of HUF 60 billion for families and HUF 40-45 billion for businesses, which is the lower repayment burden due to the measure. In total, we support families and Hungarian SMEs by nearly HUF 330 billion. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-30-267	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, has applied out of line for comments. I'll give you the floor in a time frame of nine minutes and a few seconds.
u2023-05-30-268	Thank you very much for the warning, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The left raised and it is worth approaching from this point of view: obviously the amount of the salary is one aspect, but the other is the value of the salary, so if we go to the shops and buy, then what does the salary mean, although increasing numerically, but whether it is worth more or less in the shops. In 2010, it was clear that people felt that they could buy less and less of their monthly income in shops, and in this respect, 2013 was the year of turn: in 2013 they started to grow trade, wages started to grow. Apparently, people had more money, so they could leave more money in the shops, and they could buy more and more. This rose nicely year after year, constantly; we read the figures that 12 months, 24 months, since the constant rise of trade traffic, and there was not a month when it would have fallen, but almost always rose, because people had more and more money to buy in stores. And next to him, remember, inflation was almost zero; then we were attacked by the fact that we were planning to have inflation, and then we didn't, and it was a budget trick. Now we are accused of the opposite, so of everything and the opposite. Well, so our country was on a rising path. Obviously, the coronal virus epidemic was a wave in all the countries of the world, but finally, nearly a decade ago, the fact that people were able to buy more and more has increased. When we looked at the various Eurostat statements, we could see that besides basic expenses such as food and clothing, we could spend more and more on culture and entertainment. It was obvious that people, thank God, could afford more. And the only thing that crossed that line was the outbreak of war and the introduction of sanctions. [[Intervention from the opposition benches: The inflation in Orbán!]] because the European Union introduced sanctions one day before the war. And here there is obviously a debate between us, because you are proclaiming competition in one minute who can say more than one time that it is inflation in Orbán, inflation in Orbán, inflation in Orbán, inflation in Orbán. [[Kálmán Olga: Because that's what it is!]] And that's what they're trying to tell us. Just, fellow Members, until there were sanctions until there was a war, until there was an energy crisis. [[Zoltán Varga: There was already inflation in Orbán!]] Until then, month after month, year after year, people's salaries were worth more. You can try to explain that this is a specific situation in Hungary, that everyone is really talking about how much more it costs, even at Pentecost, even at Easter, even at Christmas, compared to the previous Christmas, how much the shopping was, how much now, and in this there are really significant increases that everyone is experiencing. Not on price-cap products, and we hope that a counter-process will be launched for those in the field of mandatory action; there are apparently no more 10 percent but 20-30 percent reductions in prices reported here by larger networks. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Communism...]] This is very encouraging that this measure by the government could break down price increases. [[Intervention from opposition lines: Pure communist tempo.]] But the point is, as long as there was no war until there were sanctions, there was a rise here, thank God. Therefore, the person who looks at this objectively may be listening to you and telling you that, indeed, three times in three seconds, it was inflation in Orbán, but the reality is that as long as we Hungarians were better able to do our own business, because there was no external influence than sanctions, wages were worth more in the shops. Since the European Union introduced sanctions, and with this everything has gone up because of the cost of energy, prices in shops have really increased. So you can say so, and obviously the DK base echoes this to you, but let's add this to objectivity. The other is when you talk about the poverty certificate of Fidesz-KDNP's policy, how many Hungarians are abroad; it is 4.4 percent according to Eurostat. Do you know what percentage they're talking about in Bucharest? 18.6. We have 4.4 percent, they have 18.6 percent; you are used to begormaniaze. in Croatia 17.6, in Portugal 10.6; in Bulgaria 10.3; in Slovakia 5.3 percent. It's much taller! in the neighbouring countries, the proportion of people who work abroad is several times, let alone 10 and 20 percent higher! And as you know, this salon has been positive since 2019, so twenty thousand more people have come back, 21 250 more people have come back, say, in 2021 than the others have gone, and since 2019 this process has been, thank God, positive, turned back. There has never been such a thing, my fellow Members, since Hungary has been a member of the European Union, there have always been more people than they have come back, except since 2019, because there has been a turnaround. You believe that Hungary, the Hungarian economy, was at a low point, because you think it is only at a low point, but still, in 2004, we became a member of the Union, on 1 May 2004, and since then more people have always gone out, and since 19 people have come here. Or if we look at it, 2,500 Germans settled here in a year. If you look at 2017-18-19, more Germans settled in Hungary, such as China, but China is still a more populous country, and we feel that if we walk and walk the streets, in different shops and Chinese restaurants, as if there were more Chinese people, even though more Germans settled here. How is it real for you to say that everyone is fleeing from here when we see that many Chinese people live here, but even more Germans are settled here than Chinese! ? We believe that this is a very good part of Europe, and that is what our country loves, and that is why we do not like it to be corrupted, but we are looking for virtue in it. Of course, you are only trying to follow the narrative in Brussels at home. But let's see these numbers. Clearly, all countries are in a difficult situation because of sanctions. We hope that the sooner we can finally achieve a truce, peace, a return to the world that is from the 13th to the epidemic, or rather I say that until the war started, it was until a year ago, when, thank God, the Hungarians, if they worked more, lived better. Even though you've worked more, you've lived worse, because you've reduced your salary and raised your VAT. [[Kálmán Olga: You know that's not true!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-30-269	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next speaker is Mr János Bencze, Jobbik.
u2023-05-30-270	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Here in the debate it is said in several places that wages should be settled. Let us see that 33 years have passed since the change of regime, out of which Fidesz governed in 17, what is the biggest loser: Hungarian agriculture and the Hungarian countryside with it. There is the greatest need for wage planning in the Hungarian countryside, because the areas that have been permanently behind the development have been left out, industrialization, whatever, lost their industry, manufacturing, where people are actually working at or above a minimum wage. What can we do? The manufacturing industry needs to be developed. So I dare say, if we maximize agricultural business, if we were to join input material production in addition to processing, this could all be calculated as 20-25 percent of GDP, which corresponds to the performance of industry. This could be used to raise wages, create rural wage arrangements and wage competition, domestic product, domestic GDP, not Chinese battery companies, not the fake GDP of assembly plants [[Bence Rétvári, laughing: Fake GDP! It's crazy.]] It's produced here, but they're taking it all out. [[19.50]] This is the only solution for Hungary, it is a viable way: to produce our agricultural products, as you promised, sold in your skin, processed, and then we would be much better off in the countryside in people, in livelihoods and in wages. Thank you. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-05-30-271	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Miklós Panyi, Secretary of State, would like to take the floor.
u2023-05-30-272	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, We could listen to the very vehement comments and outraged statements of the left-wing representatives, but it is still facial toaster and uncredited that you are now talking about wage increases and support for the people, Hungarian workers, that they had a government responsibility between 2002 and 2010, and that they did not live with this responsibility, that the country was bankrupt, and that Hungarian people and Hungarian workers were abandoned. That's why we need to talk about pre-2010 conditions. [[A statement from the opposition benches: 'Cause you don't know anything else!]] 'Cause [[Balázs Barkóczi: You don't know anything else!]] It's still issuing a certificate of your performance. We could say that since then the left has been renewed, tabula rasa has happened, they are full of new faces and politicians, but the situation is that the same person who led the Hungarian left before 2010 led the country and who bankrupted the country: Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[Noise from the opposition benches. Zoltán Varga: And the same leader of Fidesz! The president's gonna ring the bell.]] It is also clear that the root cause of many problems that the Hungarian labour market is facing today is from bad governance before 2010. But how did you live with government responsibilities before 2010? A record-level budget deficit of almost 10 per cent in 2006, there was no crisis, no over-indebtedness up to 84 per cent of GDP in 2010. There wasn't a year under your governance when unemployment didn't increase, it was 12 percent in 2010. By 2007, the growth stopped, the foreign exchange credit crisis, the debt of hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families, restrictions, tax increases, and the policies of the. We became army drivers in the region, left a wreck. They refer a lot to regional indicators and regional relations. If we look at the performance of the Hungarian economy in GDP growth between 2002 and 2010, we can see that in these eight years the Hungarian economy has grown by 14 percent. How much do you think the Polish economy has grown? 40%; the Romanian economy is 36 percent; Slovakia is more than 50 percent. No wonder we managed to raise a total of 23 500 HUF on the minimum wage. How different would the dynamic of this debate be if the Hungarian minimum wage had not been raised from HUF 73 500, but, say, from HUF 100, 120 or even 150 thousand? ! But we couldn't do it because you left behind a wreck. [[Kálmán Olga: Oh, my God!]] Clearly, the facts are stubborn things, Congresswoman, these are international indicators, you can look at them. [[Kálmán Olga: I think we should steer!]] These were also facts between 2010 and 22 of the Hungarian GDP change of 40 percent, and real wages, as was also said in the debate, increased by 70 percent. Hungary achieved the third best regional result in terms of GDP change, and before 2010 we were the last. The issue of half a million new workers has been discussed several times in the debate for the coming years. There's been a debate in this. Here, too, we are forced to point back to the period before 2010. Why do we have to show it back? [[Kálmán Olga: Because there is nothing better!]] No, because of family policy, the amok run you have done in family policy, Mrs Selmeczi repeatedly referred to this, led to a radical fall in the Hungarian fertility rate. This ranged between 1.2 and 1.35 and there were 300,000 women of childbearing age, thus having children between 93 and 98 thousand people a year. [[Zoltán Varga intervenes.]] The number of women of childbearing age has decreased by 300,000. It's very simple math. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] Dear congressman. If there are 15 to 18 percent fewer women of childbearing age, it is difficult to achieve higher children with better fertility indicators. We don't need to argue about that. In these eight years, if the fertility rate had not fallen so, 15-20,000 more children would have been born each year. That's the 200,000 children who weren't born. If there is a crime in this 2002-2010 government, then it is his sin: we are 200,000 fewer in Hungary. [[Zoltán Varga: The least children are born now!]] This 200,000 people are missing from the Hungarian labour market. [[Noise, interruptions from the opposition benches. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] I recommend the statistics, I'd be happy to send them over, you can look at these corporeal charts. [[Balázs Barkóczi: We don't need to, we can use the KSH data!]] The numbers are quite different than what you're talking about. The issue of emigration has also been mentioned, and Parliamentary Secretary Rétvári has already responded in part. In fact, Hungary has the lowest figure in regional comparison, which refers to how many people left the country. Polish, Czech and Austrian data are also higher than Hungarian data. I would just like to point out that there was also a great deal of emigration between 2006 and 2010-11, and it is likely that these people did not leave Viktor Orbán, but that Gyurcsány's kind of leaving Hungary was trying to leave because of the era, and because of the foreign currency credit crisis left here, economic instability, rising unemployment, rising energy prices and overhead costs. Of course, Klára Dobrev's shadow government may solve the employment policy challenges of the coming years, because if you are on the government, then the Hungarian economy will once again be in such a state that we need to talk again about unemployment and the problems of hundreds of thousands of workers, not about labour shortages. So maybe this is really a recipe for a solution for the shadow government. If we add these numbers together, we will be approaching the number that is likely to be missing from the Hungarian labour market in the coming years. But let's not discuss the facts. It has also been said several times in the debate that what has happened since 2010, perhaps you do not dispute them either: one million new jobs have been created, the minimum wage has tripled, the taxes on labour have been halved, the rate of family support has been halved, the level of family support has tripled, we have created a regime of protection, all Hungarian families will benefit from it, thus spending on a family allowance has decreased from 14 to less than 10 percent, and we have made a lot of progress, as has been said here, in the area of various sectoral wage programmes. As far as the future is concerned, there have also been a number of areas in the debate on which the government is working. There is a need to move forward on the programme of wage-receiving, and a number of specific points have been made in this regard, for example, by Secretary of State Rétvári. Families and family support systems must be strengthened, as we can guarantee that children are born and children are born in Hungary with a strong family support system. [[Zoltán Varga: They're just not born!]] Young people really need to be kept at home, that's what we're working on. For example, the exemption of people under the age of 25 is such a tool that is suitable for this. They also have widespread access to family support tools such as the CSOK or the baby shower loan, or even the newly introduced sja-free for mothers under the age of 30. It is also necessary to work on a government programme to support return in the administrative field. The increase in productivity was made in the economy. The Member spoke about rural development and catching up in the countryside. It is possible to see how many investments have been made in recent years that have targeted in particular regions where there has been a large surplus of labour and have targeted areas in North-East Hungary. This rural development investment policy must go further. The involvement of inactive workers in the labour market has also been discussed and the involvement and development of the regional labour market. In conclusion, in view of all of this, I would like to call on the ladies and gentlemen of the House for self-criticism and modesty with regard to the employment and crisis management councils, and I would also ask that you support the government's policy of protecting jobs and families. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]] [[20.00]]
u2023-05-30-273	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Miklós Panyi. They're two minutes away. First, Mr Balázs Barkóczi, DK.
u2023-05-30-274	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, There's not enough time, and there's so much to respond to. The Secretary of State Panyi also said, but so did the others; I have never heard the word composition of the governments before 2010 so many times in my life, seriously! Why don't you talk about the present, Mr. Secretary? About the one that eats wages: the 27 per cent high VAT rate; the inflation of 26 per cent three times higher than the EU average, of 45 per cent food price inflation! If the Rákosi government came to mind, the last time was under the Rákosies, food price inflation. This is what eats wages, Mr. Secretary of State, not the governments before 2010. He says Csaba Dömötör let me quote that leaving the Hungarian wage arrangement to Brussels bureaucrats is a mistake, and then Bence Rétvári adds that this government is not told by Brussels what will happen. They say after they push us down, we refuse to argue, and then they go home. So that's what they say when they keep pointing at Brussels about teachers' wages? Well, then who doesn't Brussels tell what to do? Seventy-seven percent would be able to raise teachers' wages right now. It's in the budget. And I beg you, what kind of family policy are you talking about when family allowance hasn't been raised in 12 years? In one year, the number of births decreased by 2.7 percent, 88,000 were never born in the history of statistics last year, and the number of marriages decreased by 31 percent in one year. This is your family policy. Shame on you! [[Let's hear it for the DK benches.]]
u2023-05-30-275	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congresswoman Zita Gurmai for two minutes, MSZP.
u2023-05-30-276	Thank you very much. Where else is there to be done? If we look at the EU's minimum wage, Hungary is the last 578.74 percent. The other, if we look at where there was a really significant increase in the minimum wage between 2013 and 2023: Romania, Lithuania, Bulgaria, Malta, France, Greece; Hungary is nowhere. And it's even worse if we look at how much money the employee can take home from his gross. In the Czechs it is 89 percent, so only 11 percent of the gross salary is deducted by the state, in Polish it is 76.52 per cent gross, so the withdrawal is 23.48 per cent; Slovaks receive 81.37 per cent of their gross, so here the state takes 18.63 per cent. Hungarians, that is, we dear Members here, can only pocket 66.5 percent of our gross salary, as the state takes more than a third of our gross salary, a total of 33.5 percent of our gross salary. The Romanians are in worse situations than we are. In Hungary, raising the minimum wage or the guaranteed minimum wage affects nearly one million employees. This means that ensuring a minimum level of living for one million workers depends on the decision. Over the course of twelve years, there has been an increase of more than one hundred percent, i.e. the gross minimum wage has indeed doubled in Hungary, but it is also important to point out that while in 2010 a minimum wage worker received 82 percent of his gross salary, in 2022 much less, 66.5 percent of the gross wage remained in the employee's pocket after the deduction of the burden. If we ignore inflation in 12 years, the Hungarian family returned 82 forints out of 100 forints in 2010 and only 66.5 per cent in 2022. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for the DK benches.]]
u2023-05-30-277	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker is Mr Sándor F. Kovács, Fidesz.
u2023-05-30-278	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Members, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. It is very difficult to speak at the end, because what one has prepared for the speech is a bit of a stretch of life. After all, the opposition parties have raised and expressed concerns that should be responded first. I may tell you a secret, but I am a pro-European and I am always hurt by the statistics I see last time that young people in Hungary are becoming more and more disillusioned with the European Union. And they do not fall out of the European Union because there was a party that burned an EU flag on it, it seemed silly at the time, but that it was disappointed because the politicians and MEPs of opposition parties were uncredited. They come from the European Parliament to the Hungarian Parliament and perform a lecture, a story that was told just the opposite a few years ago. [[Dr. Gurmai Zita intervenes.]] You don't know, and young people aren't stupid, smart, the Internet doesn't forget, they know exactly that a few years ago, the Russians invited them to observe elections in the separatist republics, and now they're eating Putin. They burned flags a few years ago, and now they're giving up the weakest panels in the European Union. So, if you are pro-EU, don't bring crooked politicians from the European Union. But if there is the old opposition Jobbik who is against the Union, I should say that he is clever. The other thing: there was a debate here on the calculation of minimum wages in euro, and there was a small debate between Ferenc Dávid and Péter Cseresnyés, and I must honestly say that I agree with Ferenc David on this matter, if the Kossuth radio announced at noon that the rules of mathematics had changed. If not, and not with prime numbers, but with natural numbers, then Peter Cseresnyés is right. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Parliament, We know that the biggest wage reduction is when someone loses their job when they become unemployed. When unemployment was more than 10 percent and before 2010, it was 12 percent, extremely high unemployment. It's not a reduction in wages, it's a loss of work that's really dangerous, and it's a really serious wage reduction. And there was a solution, nothing changes in 20 years. Surely older people remember the slogan about the solution of the left: more money for the people, more money for the municipalities! Péter Medgyessy won the election with this slogan. The till was emptied, the money was scattered, and then their arms were spread out, and they told us that the economy should work as it wanted, that they destroyed, that the country was in debt, that they sold the utilities, that they sold the state companies, and that they left behind a ruin and bankruptcy. They sabotaged ordinary sick people with a visitation fee. [[Dr. Zoltán Komáromi: 300 HUF!]] This has been achieved during their governance and is now being criticised. [[Interventions in opposition benches.]] Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Parliament, I would like to turn to my pre-planned comment on the wage situation of those employed in the territorial administration and government officials. We know that during the recent Covid epidemic there has been a great need for civil servants. They have performed beyond strength in health care, in the medical service, in public health, and the results are certainly positive. The government shows how these civil servants in the public sector pay their wages. This has been the recent change in government salaries. The 2015 Act on State Officials is hereinafter referred to as "the Act on State Officials'. It entered into force on 1 July 2016. First, he raised the salary of the district office staff, about 11 thousand state officials with a higher education degree. On average, salaries increased by 34 per cent from 1 July 2016. An average increase of more than 50 per cent was made in the district offices among the administrators and administrators with a total maturity of about 5,000. In the case of district managers, department heads, district Registrars, deputy district Registrars, the average salary increase was 14 per cent. In the second step, as of 1 January 2017, employees at the county level of government offices became state officials, so from that date the entire government office staff received more than 36,000 salary increases. [[20.10]] At county level, the salary increase was differentiated between 10 and 50 per cent for employed persons. The Crossword. According to the Court's report, the salary of the graduates increased by 15 per cent on average and 40 per cent on average, with an average increase of around 10 per cent in the case of managers, heads of departments, deputy heads of departments and heads of departments. In 2020, the government provided funding for an average salary increase of 12.2 per cent and the payment of HUF 200,000 per capita cafeteria allowances, i.e. an average increase of 17.5 per cent. At the beginning of 2022, the government provided the government with an additional average 10 percent salary increase for government agencies, and we trust that they can raise wages this year as well. We all know that you have to stretch as far as your blanket goes. It's not government money, it's the money of the European Union, it's the money that this country is producing, and we're all producing it. It's the only thing you can spend. If investments do not come to Hungary, if there is no investment in Hungary, there is no income, there is no work, and as I said, the biggest reduction in wages is if someone loses their job. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-30-279	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr Ander Balázs, representative of Jobbik.
u2023-05-30-280	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Viktor Orbán's advisor László Parragh has already made a statement about Hungarian teachers flashing a gold Rolex of 11 million. The other day, in a TV statement, he said that he wouldn't try what it was like to make a living out of 300,000, as teachers do. Unfortunately, the fact is that there are many honest citizens in Hungary who get up early and work hard and do responsible work, who don't even earn that much. But right now, a teacher with a university degree. After 20 years of service, the teacher received the gross HUF 442,000, which is not even 300 thousand net. That's less, please, than a poorly paid handiworker gets. It's just that the handiworker may be working with a broken brick, and the teacher deals with our most precious treasures, our children. By far, the teacher's actions are under the HUF 582,000 gross salary established by the KSH, and the fact is, it must also be said that in Austria, which the Prime Minister considered to be a laboratory, they think differently. There, a much higher average salary exceeds the teacher's wages by 67 percent. No wonder, like László Parragh, fewer and fewer talented young people think that he wants to be crippled by these teacher's wages, so we are there today that practically one hand of the graduates can easily tell how many people apply, such as physics, chemistry teachers, this year. There will be one result: if there is no teacher, there will be no engineer, there will be no chemist, there will be no doctor, we can say goodbye to XXI. It is also competitive for civil Hungary in the first century. The Jobbik-Conservatives say there is no future without a teacher, but without Fidesz there is. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2023-05-30-281	Thank you, Congressman Ander Balázs. The next speaker is Congressman Péter Balassa, Jobbik.
u2023-05-30-282	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to share some points from the social area. Prime Minister announced at the beginning of October 2021 that a comprehensive wage-setting programme could be expected in the public sector from the beginning of the year. It was then said that from 1 January 2022 employees in the social sector could expect a 20% increase. This means nearly 90,000 people who help 800,000 people a day, and then it turns out that this increase consists of both the increase in the minimum wage and the increase in the guaranteed minimum wage at the beginning of the year, and the increase in the sector's wage. This increase has long since been eaten by inflation, unfortunately you have failed social workers. The vast majority of the workers in the area, about 70-80 percent of them, do their work in high school education, so wages in the social sector are still barely above the guaranteed minimum wage at the beginning of the year, which is currently raised to HUF 260 thousand gross. That's undeservingly low. We're talking about people who take care of the worst people in the country every day. The workers in the sector feel disappointed and deceived, so it is no wonder that there is a significant shortage of workers and that social workers should be caught with lassos. Family supporters have at least 15 percent deficit, or 15 percent deficit, but there are residential institutions with 30-40 percent shortage of staff. Unfortunately, you don't appreciate them in either financial or moral terms, because they work for hunger. Low pay means insecurity of living, which makes it difficult to work and provide the right quality of care. They only need to complete a bridging training course, and they can already continue their work abroad, for double money or triple money, under better professional and employee conditions, with greater opportunities for improvement. Dear Secretary of State, Without a raise in our country, the social sphere is on the verge of collapse. Workers and trade unions have been demanding a 50 percent sectoral wage arrangement for a long time. This would create decent conditions so that social workers do not have to count pennies at the end of the month. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2023-05-30-283	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Congressman Zoltán Sas, Jobbik.
u2023-05-30-284	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Let us also make a few thoughts about uniforms, which are the cornerstone of the functioning of the state and the security of the Hungarian people. In particular, let us talk very briefly about policemen, soldiers, firefighters or border fighters, because the fact is that these people are risking their lives to guarantee the safety of Hungary at the cost of their lives, but these people are earning much less than their colleagues working in the western Member States of the European Union, protecting Europe or ensuring the security of Hungary. And perhaps we could say that this can be traced back to social, cultural and economic differences, but I find it deeply outrageous and unacceptable that the same policemen, soldiers, firefighters or border hunters make much less than the loaders of a multinational company. I think this is a completely unacceptable and unworthy situation, and it doesn't matter what anyone politically thinks about the European Union or what we think about the renewal of the Hungarian economy, but I think that Hungarian uniforms deserve much more than that. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2023-05-30-285	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is Congressman Róbert Dudás, Jobbik.
u2023-05-30-286	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and Gentlemen, In 2010, you promised to start a pay gap. They will eliminate the over-growth bureaucracy that you consider to be harmful, which has worked and will normalize that situation. And let's look briefly at what happened, and I don't have a lot of time for that anymore, but let's see what happened. There are one and a half times as many ministries as were in 2010 at the beginning of your government, the second Orbán government. Then there were 10 ministries, now there are 15 ministries. They said that there would be wage catch-ups in all areas, including in the area of public administration. There were 106 members of the government in 2010, with regard to ministers, State Secretarys and Deputy State Secretarys, how many there were in 2023, I dare not even think about it, because it would be very difficult to compute. Even in EU comparison, they spend much more on maintaining the government as a proportion of GDP than any other EU country. It's a cash pump as we speak. This amount, such as more than a hundred billion forints for propaganda, should not be spent on government operation and bureaucracy, but on educators' wages, collapsing health care, and 30 percent of Hungarians living below the living minimum. Please use this amount for these purposes in the future. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]] [[20.20]]
u2023-05-30-287	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman János Fónagy, Fidesz, applied for a speech, but he only had 20 seconds left.
u2023-05-30-288	Thank you very much. In these 20 seconds, I would like to express my regret that the opposition, which initiated today's debate, has not taken a moment to work peace, which has been unbroken for ten years, which you have never had. We have security, peace of work, quiet, public service, train running, bus running, and we do not make cynical comments about the invention of the TV bear on the others. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-30-289	Thank you very much. Dear Congressman Major, I have been informed that three minutes have been handed over to the Fidesz. If you want to continue, you have the floor.
u2023-05-30-290	Thank you. Then you're allowed to spend these three minutes on the job. In 2016, as a result of the wage negotiations, we established a three-year wage agreement with 300 public companies, which originally includes a 30% wage development of 10 percent per year. So much for the pay cuts. At the end, it was 36-37 percent as a result of cumulation. As early as 2016, I say that the need for reconciliation of interests does not work, so that the permanent forum for wage negotiations in public companies is the Consultation Forum for Public Service Enterprises. This forum was established on 12 February 2018. From 2010, wage negotiations will take place between employers and employees within the framework of the Public Service Enterprises Consultation Forum. The aim of the KVKF is to reconcile the interests of the employees, employers and interest representatives of public public services, necessarily with the participation of the government, as the government, as public companies, provides the resources for this. There were 43 trade unions in the public companies in 2018. From the employee side, three major trade union groups, including a number of smaller representative trade unions, are the Democratic League of Independent Trade Unions, the Hungarian Trade Union Association and the National Association of Workers' Councils. The employer side is represented by the National Association of Strategic and Public Service Companies, under the maiden name STRATOSZ. The 2020 wage agreement has already been concluded within these frameworks and an average increase of 10 percent has been agreed here. As a final sentence to stay within the timeframe: in 2023, the Minister for Economic Development, as the Minister for Social Dialogue, initiated the wage negotiations with the representatives of public service companies on a company-by-company basis. This happened. These wage negotiations have been successful in all major public companies, and therefore the peace of work remains fully in place this year. Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-30-291	Thank you very much, Congressman, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application, so the political debate is closed. First, his representative, and then the representative of the Government, will make his contribution within a period of 20 to 20 minutes. First, I give the floor to Mr György Lukács, on behalf of the rapporteur.
u2023-05-30-292	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I do not wish to extend my assessment of the day of debate and my speech in the national law to a long time. Thank you very much to those who have spoken and said their constructive or even destructive criticism. They all contributed to the fact that we were able to have a meaningful debate about wages, the wage level in Hungary and what was expected of Hungarian workers. It might be worth considering, in each session, a day of debate on wages, when we look at where we are, where Hungary is in European terms, what conditions are in the country, and what we can do to develop this, because I think that we all take this as a priority, whether we sit on the right or left side of the horseshoe, think liberally or conservatively about economic policy or the situation of people. I would like to add two more things, not exceeding the national framework. The Jobbik-Conservatives reject both extremes in relation to the European Union, i.e. the extremely liberal left-wing idea, which believes in the united states of Europe, but also in the direction in which the government is now going, which is essentially a very serious anti-European Union policy against the European community. None of them are right! Conservative thinking must consist of thinking free of extremes, neither the dignity of other nations nor the human dignity of our own people due to some perceived ideological set, whether it is left-wing or far-right. As regards the criticism of the return of EU funds, it should also be said that the Group of Jobbik-Conservatives has always voted in favour of the legislative proposals that you have brought in, because we believe that it is the money of the Hungarian people, we want to help them find their way home, precisely so that it can be used to improve the wages of teachers or health workers. However, we do not want to see these funds going to another state or not getting to the Hungarian people at all, even if we are critical of the way in which they are used very often; there is indeed room for improvement in that. But to sum up the debate day itself, it is clear that we will have to deal with such an issue much more. And it is also clear that as we avoided the porridge, we can agree on one thing: that normal wages are essentially like Columbo's wife, no one has seen them. In today's parliamentary debate, it became clear that no one could say a normal wage that would be one of the criteria of normal Hungary. But it is also clear, and today's debate has proved this, and I think we should agree that Hungary's security is essentially within the European Union. So the siren sounds or the sounds that are predicting our departure from the European Union, or that is what they want and are trying to make Hungary believe, are preparing for this, are harmful. Hungary's security also means European security, and Europe is our security. On the other hand, it has also become clear that we all want normal wages. I would add that we can also imagine normal Hungary as having normal wages. And it is also clear that there are many of us who do not want to build a battery state in Hungary, but a normal Hungary. If nothing else, we can at least agree on that. It's a good place to start. On behalf of the authors, I would like to thank, on the one hand, those who made it possible for the debate to take place and, on the other hand, those who took part in the debate and increased with thought the issue of Hungarian wages, the catch-up of wages. I would add that the Jobbik-Conservatives are committed to the best approach to the European Union and to the best approximation of our wages. We believe in a normal Hungary and normal wages, which is why we initiated the debate day, and we will continue our campaign for Hungarian workers and Hungarian people in the next period. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2023-05-30-293	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor on behalf of the government to Secretary of State Sándor Czomba.
u2023-05-30-294	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I'd like to pick up where the author László Lukács left off. That was an absolutely correct suggestion, as you just put it in a few sentences. I think that we can all agree on most of this. Please allow me to say that this was about wages, and this portfolio within the government belongs to me, so that I can speak a little bit more in detail and tell you the facts about what has been said in the debate. [[20.30]] One fact is that real earnings have been growing ever since 2013 in Hungary. The events of the last seven months are, unfortunately, due to high inflation, when this sentence is not true, but overall, real earnings have increased steadily. In 2022, which is already the beginning of a crisis period, real earnings in Hungary increased by 2.5 percent, and only Poland and Bulgaria in Europe can say that, no one else. The following is: the government has also contributed significantly to the increase in wage dynamics in recent years. I would like to remind you of the agreement on the last six-year wage negotiations, the six-year agreement, during these six years the rate of social contribution tax fell from 28,5 percent to 13 percent. Each 1 percent represents HUF 400 billion to the Hungarian budget. I want this in everyone's head. How does the wage negotiation take place? Here, you do have a colleague we've worked with a lot in recent years. It looks about like we're trying to start inflation next year, GDP growth and possibly productivity growth, and we're trying to start from this figure. I think that at this year's wage trial, which he thanked God, we managed to bring to the top in a relatively short period of time, because it was not as simple as what the time factor otherwise showed, I think we did well with this 14 and 16 percent value, which is now constantly returning to the data of the HCSO, because, on the one hand, it is clear that this two-digit dynamics lasts all year. The other one, right, clearly, is that average earnings are also recorded around this 15 percent, where they are above 20 percent, where they are only 8 percent, but generally around 15 percent. And why is that important? If we overshoot, if we set the bar too high and spread wages without any performance behind it, then we start a price-to-wage spiral that has unpredictable consequences; if we shoot down, then we're going to reverse real earnings, right, virtually zero-round. This is therefore a very, very important thing, and I think that the partners have been able to make a responsible good decision in this regard. This is not about wage dynamics, ladies and gentlemen, it is not about that, it is not about double-digit wage growth, it is about high inflation. That is why the Hungarian government is using all means to reduce inflation, so that we try to keep real earnings at a level or, if possible, if we have the opportunity, to increase it. [[Kálmán Olga: Can you do it?!]] As regards the comparison of Hungarian-EU wages and several examples of Romania being negative or positive, I do not know, but as an example, I would like to note that in Romania 1.2 million people have a minimum wage of 1.2 million people. In 2018, the Romanian government moved the social security contributions from the employer side to the employee side by administrative means, a 35 percent increase, look into it, ladies and gentlemen. That is why the minimum wage in Romania seems to have increased dramatically, even with a penny more. In Hungary there are approximately 223,000 people at minimum wage and 740 thousand people are guaranteed minimum wage. So when we are discussing the minimum wage, I respectfully suggest to all of us that we should not focus on the minimum wage as a matter of principle, but on the minimum wage, as it concerns the vast majority of workers, and that if I turn it back to the euro, or even more, and you know very well that it is always worth looking at the purchasing power parities, and otherwise it is not a mere mathematical model to redistribute it with an iks, and from then on we have this number, and we begin to compare who can buy what from a purchasing power pare, and if we look at it from a purchasing power pare, then there are seven Member States in the Union, seven Member States which are in worse shape if we look at average incomes, and nine, fellow Members. I suggest we look into that, too. As regards social dialogue and its lack of dialogue, it is Ferenc Dávid who said that there are mock-up negotiations. I was very sad to hear it, and I'll tell you the truth, because we, too, have been in such wage negotiations together. There have been very serious debates about employers and workers, which have been quite rightly discussed, not only in relation to the minimum wage, but also in relation to the Labour Code, we could say here that we have been going through everything in the last 10 to 15 years. I very much hope that this sentence would be emphasised by your party rather than by you, because I think that I do believe that the VKF is a very important and very useful social forum, where we can make decisions on merit after a proper debate. In fact, a few, perhaps a strong months ago, within the VKF, we set up another committee, a case-by-case committee, which has the task of discussing every amendment or proposal to Parliament in a zero circle. You feel how important this thing is, don't you? This has not happened, or has not always happened, in such a declaration in the previous period. Mr Abbot is no longer here, but I am obliged to respond in two sentences to the fact that there will be support for and to create jobs. I would like to draw attention to the fact that if, during Covid's time, these subsidies had not been in place, which the Hungarian government had started, first a job holder, and then, after Covid, the job creator, about 300-350 thousand people would have lost their jobs. It's that simple, white and black. That's all the people we could help. It is more complicated now, isn't it, because at the time of Covid there was a beginning, and it was about the end, and the crisis now has a beginning, but we can't see the end. Now, therefore, to prepare with labour market tools for dealing with problems, this is a more complex, complex task, but I would like to point out that the government is not untidy in this regard, and we will be reporting on new job-creating aid for young people, small and medium-sized enterprises or others in the next period. It has been said here how we plan to catch up with disadvantaged regions. Well, by taking the investments where the working hand is available, it's that simple. It's not that simple, because, you know, we've been fighting it for a few decades, and we haven't managed to solve it. Now, these investments... fortunately, we are now one of the most important criteria for businesses, because of the shortage of labour, when an investment is deployed to where a sufficient number of workers of quality are available. This is why these areas are also on the map of investments. Mr Ferenc Varga here indicated the situation with regard to public employment in 2010 and how many hundreds of thousands of people have since. I was a part of that story, wasn't I? I would like to send a message to the Member that in 2010, with unemployment of well over 10 percent, the question to be decided was either to give aid or to give work. We knew very well that the primary labour market was not in a state where it could absorb hundreds of thousands of people, so we stressed temporarily and at the time that we were trying temporarily to help people who do not want to live on welfare. At the summit there were about 300,000 public workers, now there are about 72 thousand averages. I would like to point out, may I say, that this programme from public employment to the competition sector has given a few hundred people the opportunity, but that is not what I would like to draw attention to. What happened to the 300,000 and the 72,000 difference? Do you know what happened? They were placed in the primary labour market because they couldn't appear in the unemployment register either, because, you see, their number didn't increase, and more than that, they dropped from 12 percent to 3.9 percent. So these are facts that I do not think are worth arguing with. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai has brought up women's employment several times in several circles, not that anyone seemed to be interested in her answer. I would just like to send a message to her that women's employment is now 70 percent in Hungary, which is 5 percent more than the EU average, and unemployment and female unemployment are half of the EU average. [[20.40]] According to the OECD, Hungary spends 5 percent of GDP on family support, making us the second in the OECD Member States for five years. Well, I spare the honourable Members here. There's still a lot to talk about in the assembly plant. I'd like to make one point. The Hungarian government's economic development strategy is based on three pillars: export-oriented, investment-oriented and high value added. [[Zoltán Varga: This is what we see...]] Well, if you're gonna call it in, you're gonna have to give me three sentences, Congressman. Investment rates peaked in 2022... [[Zoltán Varga intervenes.]] nearly HUF 19 000 billion, and this year it will reach a new peak of HUF 20,000 billion. This is the investment-oriented economic development of our country. Within all investments, the proportion of internal investments represented more than 80%, representing investments by domestic operators and clearly improved the export capacity of the domestic economy. There are already significant results here which, in themselves, contradict the accusations of the assembly plant. The IMF, which is generally critical of us, also acknowledges that the Hungarian industry is the most high-tech industry in Europe in competition with the German and Danish industries. Hungary is the world 14... [[Zoltán Varga: We're talking about Chinese battery factories!]] Listen. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Hungary has the 14th largest export-capable economy in the world with a total score of 1.4, so OEC is not OECD, only OEC. In the case of exported products, it is important to point out that the share of high-tech products in manufacturing exports is particularly high in Hungary in comparison with the EU, thus preventing our regional competitors. We have a record year behind us in the FDI inflow: 2,700 in 2022 and 4000 in 23 it is expected that it will be worth 4,000 billion in 2022. I won't go on. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If we don't move, and the Hungarian economy... now in the migrant worker story I don't want to restart anything, but if we don't, we'll be behind. The 4.7 million people who work in Hungary at the moment are not a constant, can change. Suddenly, the companies that now manufacture internal combustion engines and manufacture engines just stop there, and suddenly the internal combustion engine line stops, and there are a few thousand, you might say, tens of thousands, where appropriate, even 100,000 people work. What about them? So until then, what will the Hungarian economy do, what will happen? [[Zoltán Varga: Small and medium-sized enterprises...]] Ladies and gentlemen, Small and medium-sized enterprises play a very important role in the Hungarian economy, especially in employment, unfortunately in terms of GDP added value and in other respects the situation is a little different. But you don't really think that the hundreds of thousands of people's labour needs that would be needed to do so will be able to absorb them in that region, in that area, in that very short period of time. The main objectives of the Hungarian government remain the creation of new jobs, the protection of existing ones, a predictable wage policy, a continuous increase in income and a higher standard of living. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-30-295	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Sándor Czomba. That concludes this agenda. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today, and we are therefore going to take the floor after the agenda. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Péter Ovádi, Member Fidesz, with the title Veszprém and its region in motion. [[Interjection: He's not here!]] Peter Ovádi is not present. Then I give you the floor, there is an independent representative of Peter James, who instead of a sightseeing trip! He said that he had spoken after the agenda.
u2023-05-30-296	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues! You guys are really out of the house? I'm serious. There is a crisis in Hungary. It's getting harder for people to make a living. They can buy less and less because they don't have anything. Meat and fruit are luxurious, and bread is almost the same. And what do you do to stop the price? What? They're reducing the VAT on sightseeing buses. I can't believe it! They're not reducing the VAT on basic food, they're reducing the city-viewing buses, because you think it's costing too much to see the city these days. Colleagues! I'm really trying to be understanding with you, obviously you're not in the picture. The Hungarians, at least there, in Miskolc, in Borsod, are not used to sightseeing, you know. But they want to eat and feed their families and gas the car and pay the bill. So get your shit together, don't mess with me with 20-level problems, solve what needs to be solved. Stop the increase and give fair wages and just pensions! Or does Rachel have some kind of bus business that suddenly had to be taken forward in the line? Because the daughter of the nation has been talking about her being regularly supported by dear Papa, the dear Prime Minister, and she is very pleased with that. Eat his heart. Of course you're satisfied, I believe you're satisfied. The only problem is that thanks to his dear father, Rachel is forced to be supported by the whole country, and we are sick and tired of it. Orbán Rachel is not my daughter. So I'd like to get off my feet and off the people's feet, and he and the pereputty. Let the small family show us how to manage in capital life without public money, with Ripper in the lead, who now pockets 500 million forints a day. It's amazing to say 500 million forints a day! Just because he's the Prime Minister's best friend, and the bravest of all, don't forget. Yes, fellow Members, that is the problem with this country. Here, even if you have a relationship, you can move forward even if your head is empty, if you don't have a relationship, and you can go along with a diploma in your pocket to do slave labor for slave wages. But of course, we should be glad that there are no kindergarten non-transmutation surgeries, and there are no gays in Fidesz, let's say, they are, but there is no world war, okay? Well, the Prime Minister is now threatening the good people with a world war or even a nuclear war. It seems that Brussels, Soros, LGBTQ, migrants are no longer dangerous enough, we have to raise the stakes, let Hungarians be afraid, right? In the meantime, you don't care about your own misery, do you? Well, it's your tactics, that's all. I would add that this is one of your greatest sins, that a whole generation, a whole generation, is slowly growing up in this country, that you must always be afraid of someone or something here, while, in reality, you alone have something to be afraid of. Because for all the crimes that have been committed against the nation in 13 years, sooner or later, you will answer. The Movement in the People's Party is fighting for a new election precisely so that it can happen as soon as possible. So, fellow Members, let's not have any more fun here, disband Parliament and have a new election in Hungary. We look forward to the opposition's support. Justice for the Hungarians!
u2023-05-30-297	Thank you very much, Congressman. Balázs Barkóczi, representative of DK, applied for a post-meeting speech:. To the district, yes to the development! It's an address.
u2023-05-30-298	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Colleagues! The districts of Budapest are facing difficulties that have not been experienced in recent decades. Orbán's criminal policy now threatens not only development but also their everyday functioning. Continued rising solidarity contribution, abstract subsidies, half-received trade tax, abstract vehicle tax, cancelled parking revenues, local bodies and businesses left without any substantial assistance during the pandemic, and the continuous state expropriation of municipal assets, this is what characterizes the last few years of Fidesz' criminal policy affecting the districts. This is complemented by record inflation across the continent, inflation in Orbán three times the EU average, the unprecedented rise in energy prices, the lack of EU funds held back because of the corrupt system in Orbán. In such a situation, those who are committed not to Putin and to some of the Oligarchs of the NER elite, which have been shown record speed, must stand up to Viktor Orbán, but to the interests of the people in the district and to the development of their place of residence. Annex XV is amended as follows: Yet the district said yes to development, to the implementation of joint plans. We said yes to working together with the district institutions, to working together with local businesses, civil and ecclesiastical organisations and cultural actors. The residents said yes to building the future together, despite the present difficulties. I would like to briefly report on this work now and in the coming weeks, so that we can say yes together to the continuation. [[20.50]] So let's see the real results, which all contributed to the fact that the XV. The district should be a more livable, more orderly, greener and better infrastructure. The renovation of Erdőcúró utca and Zsókavár utca started in the entire phase of last year, paying off some decade's debt to all of us. The renewed sections of the road are planned to be used by residents from July this year. We have managed to achieve that low-floor, accessible and air-conditioned CAF electrics are now running on the 69 line, which is a huge help especially for mothers with strollers, older people who are now more difficult to move and disabled residents. We hope that the 500 million HUF cable investment will be completed as soon as possible, which will lead to the permanent replacement of the old and many outdated Hanover trams with modern trams. We also paid a decade's debt by renovating the overpass in Drégelyvár street connecting the district with Zugló, which, for many years, had been subject to technical implementation plans, and the previous Budapest leadership kept delaying the start of the work. The New Palota Várcsarnok has been renovated from the inside, where the residents of Budapest also prefer to shop from the neighbouring districts. With the construction of 824 new apartments in Palotaliget, the gradual integration of the part of the city and the development of the suburban environment continued. The main sewage collection channel along the Szilas stream has been completed, which will increase the value of real estate, increase the capacity to build and new businesses will be able to set up in the area in the future. In recent years, nearly 3,000 meters of roads have been renewed in the district and more than 300 new parking spaces have been created, thus helping to alleviate the ongoing parking problems. But there have also been serious improvements in the sports life of the district in the field of mass sports and professional sport, the football field in Szántóföld utca, the Vasball Street sports establishment and the Buda II. László Stadium's artificial grass court and the recortan-covered Páskom park runway has been completed for more than a thousand meters. Returning to Buda II a little: REAC will be playing a grader in June to get up with a class. I'm rooting for them from here, and I hope I can do that in person at the stadium. And don't forget the children of the district: the Port Youth Island and its surroundings have become more beautiful, where a new digital room with smart devices awaits young people who want to learn and play. A green park with outdoor fitness machines was created under the name of the Park of Generations. In addition, ten playgrounds have been renewed and four new dog runners have been handed over in recent years. But let's move on: the missing section of the noise barrier next to the M3 has been completed. In addition, the municipality exchanged 200 windows on the properties in its surroundings. On 600 square meters, the new community square of Rákospalota, Pop-Up Park, was created with a new image. I think the listed improvements speak for themselves. We in Rákospalota, Pestújhely and Újpalota will continue to say yes to the development of our shared home, we will say yes to the XV. Circuit. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-05-30-299	Thank you very much, Congressman Barkóczi. Debrecen's community transport is failing. It's Kosha's curse. Mr Zoltán Varga, representative of DK, asked to speak after the agenda.
u2023-05-30-300	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, The title may be familiar, since we have talked about this many, many times. I have also spoken here in Parliament, but what is more important is that if someone stops at any bus stop in Debrecen, waiting for any bus and hang on to the official schedule in Debrecen, there may be several hours of this waiting, there will be nothing more to hear from the stunned and angry comrades in Debrecen than dead city, dead transport in Debrecen, and, of course, to learn about the very juicy, incredible diversity of the Hungarian language, which concerns the mayor and obviously the mayor's office. I wouldn't quote them, I'd say drama. Perhaps this is the best word for the operation of the Orbán consortium, which Lajos Kósa grunted, of course, was created in 2008, and although he won it in 2008...? If, to put it mildly, the managed public procurement in which the State Volán, which had performed the service in Debrecen until then, could be called winning, was excluded from the tender with a noble simplicity, according to good fidesz practice, with the promise that Community transport in Debrecen without external municipal support, i.e. without loss, loss compensation, profitable, sufficient flight density, XXI. They're gonna run it in a hundredth-century way. That was the promise. Any of it come true? No, nothing. They lied. They lied about it, just like they lied about everything else. In the new municipal decision adopted last week, the general meeting in Debrecen again, as it has been for years, will pay an unforgivably HUF 7.4 billion so-called loss compensation to the kisser of Orbán and Kósa in Debrecen, in total that the inhabitants of Debrecen are waiting for the high-floor buses produced by the buddy, which are dedicated to urban traffic, for hours a day in cold, windy bus stops in Debrecen. And, of course, the fact that the service that doesn't exist, which, by the way, seems more like a cash pump than a real public service, and where the former CEO of DKV also ran away screaming, doesn't go bankrupt financially. I'm telling you, don't go bankrupt financially, because, in fact, community transport in Debrecen is long gone, at least in the way a city-service community transport is supposed to be, certainly not. And if it wasn't enough: well, you've read it, it appeared on almost every news portal, that I would open the trams and here a parentheses, because I would remind you that the construction of tram 2 was rather scandalous in Debrecen, that the construction had been delayed for years, and that the Debrecen people were circling open work pits during winter water, jumping through it, of course, which, thanks to Lajos Kósa, will be stopped for the weekend, which is not only hungarikum, but also within Hungary, because it is a speciality in Debrecen. Let's hear it for the environment! With a title, we could say, the mayor said that from an energy saving point of view, instead of trams, diesel buses should go on weekends. Go, Debrecen! In the meantime, it is also electrically charged, of course I don't have to say, from the same manufacturer, the consortium member, purchased and bought buses, thanks to which we also have failed public transport in Debrecen, so these purely electric buses can run, so the mayor doesn't count on the expensive electricity, because the wallet of NER's patron, the wallet of Orbán's buddy, is the most important thing to fill; the protection of the interests of all the other people in Debrecen, perhaps the operation of the Debrecen community transport, is a multi-advantage issue and irrelevant, not only to the mayor, but also seems to the government. So let's recap what happened. The municipality pays 7.4 billion forints and paid similarly much last year, the day before last, and I must add that ever since this consortium has been in place for a non-functioning service in the city, just in order for a 20-soldier of NER to enjoy himself, he can continue to fill his pockets unscrupulously. All of this will continue until the Dobrev government appears, and it will dissuade you in Debrecen, and it will replace the governors. Thank you for listening.
u2023-05-30-301	Thank you, Congressman Varga. Judit Ráczné Földi, representative of DK, also spoke after the agenda with the title "Férvári " Sports Miracles."
u2023-05-30-302	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The little brother helped the big brother, so MOL Fehérvár FC managed to stay at the top of the football championship. The 12th richest Hungarian, by the way, Viktor Orbán's very good friend István Garancsi's football club has avoided the greatest shame and has not fallen out of the forefront. It is typical, however, that he failed to score in the decisive match, so he could cheer for the Puskás Academy to win against the Budapest Hungarians. [[21.00]] I note that the goal of the club was originally to get into the European Cup Qualifier, based on its position in the championship. But to succeed, everything is, as they say, available money, steed, weapon. For a great deal of money, a new stadium was built, but the stadium was short of viewers, with an average of 3175 viewers at the NBI matches in 2022, 6175 players in international matches, i.e. up to 50 percent. Ticket revenues account for 2,3 percent of the total revenue, and therefore subsidies and advertising contracts are needed. The revenue from sponsors and advertisements was HUF 6.2 bn in 2021 and HUF 5.3 bn in the year 22 in the year 2021. The company justified the significant decline by the termination of the sponsorship contract and the weaker domestic performance. The city of Székesfehérvár supported the club of course: between 2015 and 21 the Fehérvár FC Kft received more than 700 million HUF. The club in Székesfehérvár collected the second largest amount of footballtao support over the years. DK has been fighting the lack of transparency of Tao money for years. The Gunnery Academy FC is the first place on the footballtao support list. The two Fejér county clubs received nearly 13 percent of the Tao subsidies with 2212 candidate associations. Does this have anything to do with the Prime Minister? I'll leave the answer to you. Of course, it is still worth the maximum to the owner: in 2021 it achieved HUF 1.6 billion in profit, in 22 it was only HUF 127 million in profit. The figures show that without subsidies, on a market basis, this club would not be able to operate profitably. We see that connection to the NER circles is a token of in- or survival. But we see that the money, the excessive support alone, is very little. Week after week, we could see that the millions cast into football are in bottomless bags, billions, if not accompanied by a commitment to the club if there is no skill if the team does not have a real owner. It shows incompetence that last year the association paid HUF 1.3 billion for the termination of fixed-term contracts, as this was the cost of firings and training leave. This amount is the annual budget of the Kecskemét team. Kecskemét became a silver medalist, where the top payment is less than HUF 2 million; in Székesfehérvár the average salary is above HUF 5 million. Despite the mournful appearance of the past months, István Garancsi did not feel that he should face the Székesfehérvár people, so that the people of Fehérvár could not know what had happened to the club. The people of Fehérvár do not know what their intentions are for further operation. Or did it all work out in one fell swoop? Székesfehérvár has been watching volleyball and basketball instead of football for the past few weeks. In the fourth match of the man's volleyball finals, the MÁV team, operating with a minimum budget, was eliminated by the multiple champion Kaposvár team. The Arconic Alba Man Basketball team with a budget of several hundred million also played for the championship. The five-game duel was finally won in a big fight by the Hungarian team at the advantage of the Hungarian track in Szombathely. The teams set an example for footballers to fight out of knowledge and humility. Teams have served their fans to the full. Here again, I thank you for your great achievement and congratulations on your achievement; you have proved that you can indeed do so. The government of Viktor Orbán has also introduced politics, the NER system into sport, and as a result there is a lack of transparency. DK is therefore committed to transforming the funding support system for Hungarian competition and amateur sport. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2023-05-30-303	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Judit Ráczné Earth. Dear Parliament, Member János Bencze, representative of Jobbik, also applied for a post-the-meeting speech:. What is happening here? It's an address.
u2023-05-30-304	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, We ask the question many times, what happens here 33 years after the change of regime? In those 33 years, what happened here, of which Fidesz has been ruling Hungary for more than 17 years, and whatever is in the Hungarian countryside, anyone asks why it is wrong, why it is not, why it is missing, everyone is pointing backwards, to Brussels, to the left, to the previous parties. But let's ask ourselves, what's going on here, and what else is going to happen here? Whatever Fidesz has touched in this cycle, in the last 17 years, and especially in the last 13 years, has brought disaster to the Hungarian countryside. In 2010, they came to government with the promise that they would develop the Hungarian countryside, as the Fidesz is a rural person, and the countryside was not developed. They sold the country to the car companies, they sold the country to the Chinese battery companies, and there's nothing left but poverty and unemployment. Let's get in line. Hungarian agricultural products have become unsoldable. Hungarian farmers, as I mentioned earlier today, can sell their crops at such a low price this year, thanks to our run-up agriculture, let us place this in a strong quotation mark that they will become loss-making. In the neck of this, the Fidesz men, you, the official land price, half of which, one-third of which, the land price was officially dropped. What I said once: if the Hungarian farmer tries to sell the land at a fair price, he will be declared a criminal. And Hungarian honey became unsellable, the Hungarian honey market was stuck. Bee families are in a completely bad state, financially completely burned out, and we're out of last reserves. Why is this important to the countryman? We have said many times that there is only one solution: to develop the manufacturing industry, to create jobs for the manufacturing industry, because this can bring prosperity to the Hungarian countryside. Nothing has happened in the last 13 years, absolutely nothing. EU funds have been absorbed with fake applications and fake developments, and the result has been: the European Union has launched infringement proceedings against Hungary, in Hungarian the whole country has been punished for fidesz oligarchs and corrupt politicians. They stole the money, the people in the country are being punished, and their standard of living is getting worse. That's why there's no money in the country, because Fidesz once stole it, and now the Union is beating the dust all over the country. What's the solution? Let's see it through. In 2030, Hungary has to become a net contributor, i.e. it has to produce enough to appear as a contributor in the EU register, not as a sponsor. We have seven years to make this right. If this punishment lasts longer, let us call it the EU curse unleashed by Fidesz, then we can do one thing that the Jobbik-Conservatives will fight for: the Mafia government will not punish the population of the European Union. Open directly to the EU, Brussels, which Hungarian businesses can apply for directly in Brussels; Hungarian municipalities can apply directly; Hungarian civilians can apply directly and Hungarian agriculture can apply for Brussels. Then the money is taken out of the hands of the Fidesz mafia, it will never pass through their hands again; Fidesz will remain punished; the oligarchs, Lőrinc Mészáros will be punished, but the Hungarian countryside and the Hungarian people will be able to improve, because the resources they are applying for from there in the European Union can be used themselves without having to interfere with the corrupt system of the current Hungarian government. There is no payback, there is no law, there would be a clean application system, and the Hungarian countryside could develop. We could have manufacturing, we could have jobs, because rural people are hardworking, people living in small rural towns are hardworking, and they want to develop their own environment. These requests are constantly coming in to me from Hungarian farmers, mayors, entrepreneurs, not to punish us, not to be punished, to punish those who have committed these crimes. And I stress that this is why the Jobbik-Conservatives will also fight in the European Union so that the Hungarian population, which has been listed above, can apply directly for funding and can make Hungary a worthy Member State of the European Union. Thank you. [[21.10]]
u2023-05-30-305	Thank you, Mr János Bencze. Zoltán Sas, representative of Jobbik, also applied for a post-meeting speech entitled The Memorial of the Hungarian Heroes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-05-30-306	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, In 1917 the legislators decided to celebrate the Memorial of the Hungarian heroes on the last Sunday of May. This was the case until 1945, and after the war, this was not possible until the change of regime. Based on the text of the 1917 Act, we remembered the Hungarian people, whether they were soldiers or civilians, who sacrificed their lives for Hungary. After the change of regime, everyone was free to remember the Hungarian heroes again, and in 2001 there was an amendment of the law, which sounds to me exactly like that those who shed their blood, risked their lives or sacrificed their lives for Hungary, we remember them on the last Sunday of May. Why is it important to talk about this and to remember these people? Dear fellow Members, This is very important because if these people do not shed their blood, they do not sacrifice their lives, then we in Hungary may not be able to live in a Hungarian state now, and the survival of Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin could also be questionable. That is why it is important to always be aware of our past, because it is much easier for us to work out in our present with exactly what we are planning to do in the future. In addition to heroism, the international security environment continues to deteriorate, and the Russian-Ukrainian war has shown that, unfortunately, the borders of the European Union or European countries are not in stone, a war conflict can transform this significantly, and we know that each war has significant material and personal losses, so we are very, very confident that our country will be able to avoid this, that we will have military heroes again, that we will have soldiers with sufficient training and armor to guarantee the security of Hungary. An extremely important and sad event took place yesterday, in the KFOR mission in Kosovo, which was an extremely serious attack on a NATO mission serving Hungarian soldiers. And now I would not like to make the political debate about who is right, but I would simply say that Hungarian soldiers were there in the line of duty, and in doing so, twenty of our soldiers were injured, who had already been brought home. I think this is also an extremely important example of heroism and stability, so I also thank them in the name of the Jobbik-Conservatives for their service, wishing them well-being. Finally, although you can no longer hear it straight away, I thank you for your sacrifice to every Hungarian hero who spilled his life and blood for Hungary, thank you for living here in Hungary as a Hungarian. Thank you so much for listening. [[János Bencze applauds.]]
u2023-05-30-307	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Sas, President of the Commission. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the next Spring Session is expected to take place on 12 June 2023. I thank you for your work, and I wish you a restful good night. The meeting's closed.
