u2023-02-27-0	[[With the exception of the representatives of DK, Momentum and Dialogue, those in the room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 1st day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that all Members and spokespersons have issued their own declarations of property and their relatives. Declarations of property are public in the case of Members and Spokespersons and can be viewed on the National Assembly's website. I declare that all Members of Parliament and advocates can exercise their rights. Dear House, I am fulfilling my sad duty to announce that our fellow Member, László Kordás, has passed away. László Kordás, politician of the Democratic Coalition, obtained a mandate from the list of the Party Alliance for Hungary in 2022. Under his mandate, he served as Vice-President of the Committee on Enterprise Development. Previously, between 2002 and 2004 he was Vice-President of the National Association of Hungarian Trade Unions, and between 2004 and 2006 he also worked as State Secretary of the Ministry of Employment and Labour of the Gyurcsány Government. Between 2009 and 2011 he was Deputy Director General of the Employment Office, from 2012 he was Secretary General of the Public Labour Trade Union, and from 2015 to 2021 he was president of the Hungarian Trade Union Association. He passed away 53rd year of his life. Dear House, Once again, I am fulfilling my sad duty to announce that three of our former fellow Members have passed away in the past. Sándor Polyák obtained his mandate in the first free parliamentary elections after the change of regime, from the national list of the SZDSZ, and he was the party's parliamentary representative for a period of time. Under his mandate, he assisted the work of the Committee on Budgets, Taxation and Finance. He died in the 72nd year of his life. The philosopher Miklós Gáspár Tamás was one of the dominant figures of the democratic opposition before the regime change. In 1990, as a candidate for the SZDSZ, in the 14th constituency of Budapest, he entered the single-party parliament in the place of the MEP resigned there, and again obtained a mandate from the regional list of Csongrád county in the 1990 parliamentary elections. Under his mandate, he assisted the Committee on Foreign Affairs. During his career, he has conducted research and teaching activities at a number of internationally recognised universities. Since 1989 he was a professor at the Faculty of Law and State Sciences of the ELTE Department of Philosophy, and then a senior associate at the Institute of Philosophy of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. His books and essays were translated into a number of languages. In 2005, he received the middle cross of the Order of Merit of the Republic of Hungary in recognition of his outstanding scientific and educational work, his publicistic and public life activities, and in 2009 he was awarded the 20th anniversary of the Republic Award, and in 2020 he was elected the Honorary Citizen of Budapest. He died in the 74th year of his life. Imre Mécs, a 1956 freedom fighter, politicians of SZDSZ and MSZP also obtained a mandate in the 1990 parliamentary elections in the 23rd constituency of Budapest, and until 2010, he was a member of the Parliament for five cycles. Under his mandate, he was Chairman of the Defence Committee and member of the Committee on National Security, the Committee on Local Government and Police and the Committee on Information Technology and Telecommunications. Imre Mécs participated in the 1956 Revolution, took part in the organization of the National Guard, and after November 4th in the Resistance. Arrested in June 1957 and sentenced to death on 22 May 1958. In February 1959, the sentence was converted to life imprisonment. Released in March 1963 during amnesty. He was a founding member of the Alliance of Free Democrats in 1988. In 1997 he was decorated with the French Medal of Honor, in 2006 with the Hero of Liberty Medal. He passed away 90 years of his life. I would ask you to pay tribute to the memory of our fellow Members with a silent standing. [[The people in this room stand up.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, Máté Kanász-Nagy, politician of the LMP, applied for a pre-meeting speech. Here you go.
u2023-02-27-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would particularly like to welcome the honourable government representatives. We were here a week ago at the extraordinary meeting of Parliament, but the government benches were empty, they did not come to this debate, even though we initiated a very important debate, which was about not wanting Hungary to be turned into a battery ring by the government. We wanted to ask our questions to the pro-government Members, State Secretarys, Ministers, but now we have the opportunity to do so. Obviously, he's a secretary of state. [[Eszter Debate: Lady! There are those!]] Or Minister will answer this question. However, I regret that Prime Minister did not come, and we would have asked him our questions, but obviously, Prime Minister will be here in the early evening debate this afternoon. Why are we saying that the government wants to make Hungary a battery ring? Because it's obvious. It is clear that they want to turn it into a battery ring when hundreds and thousands of billions provide indirect and direct support to these battery factories. These are foreign battery factories, Far Eastern, and now Chinese battery factories are expanding in Hungary. Every investment, every tax forint, is practically for this purpose. Turns out it's actually Paks II. This is why Hungary needs to be built in order to become a battery company. Just last week, the decision was published in the Hungarian Gazette that HUF 115 billion is intended for the development of the electricity network between Szeged and Szolnok. This clearly serves the purpose of removing the power from Paks through Szeged, Szolnok, all the way to Debrecen. So the investment in Paks also serves the purpose of turning Hungary into a battery company. [[13.20]] It also shows that these factories take away our water, they take away our energy, they take away our agricultural land. This is a typical colonial fate, when it comes here, typically from abroad, the exploitative capital, and it exploits Hungarian natural values, our water, our energy and our agricultural land; they also make Hungary a battery ring. And there is the situation of the Hungarian workforce. Typically, they create a labour market situation here that is lower in Hungary than in Western Europe or more than from us to the West, but now they are attracting these large battery factories and car manufacturers with different discounts, with negative changes in the labour code, and attracting them here by making less money than the labour force of other countries. Well, it's a sort of colonial destiny. It is also a characteristic of colonial fate that, since these battery factories are supported by government tens, hundreds, and thousands of forints, there is no money to raise the wages of the Hungarian public sector, there is no money to provide education, health and social care; this is also one of the characteristics of colonial fate. So it is true that everything is sacrificed in order for these car factories and battery companies to come to Hungary. This is the main goal of government policy to turn Hungary into a battery company. In addition, if this is not enough, there are environmental considerations that these factories are seriously polluting, seriously harmful to health, and there is no reason to protest that residents everywhere in the country from Debrecen to Iváncsa, Fót to Komárom and Göd, the latest news is that this is now ringing all the way to Kistelek, because nobody wants to live in a place where battery factories grow out of the ground, and battery factories are installed at the end of the gardens, in the immediate neighbourhood of the houses, just as they do on a battery ring. And finally, it is typical that these battery companies will not produce these batteries for Hungary, but will definitely produce them for export abroad, as will the old colonies, when the colonial world, for example, established colonies in Africa or the Far East, to produce goods for export. These Far Eastern Chinese battery companies in Hungary will produce batteries for the rest of the world, thus increasing their profits, which will be exported abroad, just like in the colonies. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They've been doing this for hundreds of years. Don't turn Hungary into a battery ring. We're doing everything we can to stop this from happening. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the LMP, DK and sporadic applause from the benches of MSZP.]]
u2023-02-27-2	I give the floor to Secretary of State Zsófia Koncz to answer.
u2023-02-27-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, Since the LMP has started this speech, I would like to draw attention here to a lot of changes in the last two years, or perhaps in the last five years, with regard to battery production. Bernadett Szél said in 2017 that "May Other politics" wants to make Hungarian people the winners of the era of electric cars, renewable energy, green light, smart devices and smart cities. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, In 2018, Erzsébet Schmuck said that electric motoring is unstoppable and is expected to represent 20-25 percent of global car sales in ten years. What are we gonna do about it? We're locking ourselves in the structure of the past. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Our fellow Member, Péter Ungár, said: "The real reduction would be if the state spent more money to increase electromobility. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I would also like to add a very interesting idea, which was said in 2019 by Gábor Vágó, the leader of the European Parliament electoral list of LMP: in the world, an electric car revolution is taking place, and Hungary and Europe should not miss out on it. Like Norway and Beijing, it is necessary to ensure that from 2030 only electric or hybrid vehicles can be used on Hungary's roads. This is also necessary because the life expectancy of children to be born is reduced by three years by air pollution. The transformation of Hungarian car factories should also be facilitated. If this is not done, we will buy cars from China in 10 years, which would significantly reduce the Hungarian economy. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Now, two weeks ago, we heard the following statement from Krisztina Hohn of LMP:. This factory cannot be completed at any time, not now, not in three years, or after that. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Well, I'd like to ask you what's happened in the past, because I think that LMP was right for electric car production and battery production, because these two things are connected. And it must also be said that we are now basically in a faith debate, because here we are talking about the future becoming an electric car. The European Parliament has just decided that from 2035 onwards, only a zero-emission new vehicle can be placed on the EU market. And if we want to participate in this very serious technological competition, then there is a need for battery factories, and the Hungarian automotive industry is particularly strong. I think that if we do not believe that we Hungarians can participate in this technological competition, it is a very, very sad thing, and the fact is that from the opposition I have felt exactly this way in the past period, as if they did not think that Hungarian expertise and Hungarian people are capable of participating in this technological competition. Of course, the investment needs to be discussed, and I think that it should be highlighted in all respects that the most stringent environmental authorisation procedure has been carried out and that the Authority has taken all aspects into account with very, very strict limits in this regard. In recent years, the repeated criticism of the left has been that the government is not green enough, it does not support innovative solutions enough; in the long term, Hungary will be lagging behind the surrounding countries, which the left-wing narrative referred to most often as the "bezgég" country based on misinterpreted or misinterpreted data. That is why we are standing here a little confused that the communication of the past period has now been followed by a complete turn of Paul. I don't really understand how this could have happened. I think that we must participate in this competition in all aspects, and the Hungarian automotive industry must clearly compete in this regard. It should also be pointed out that since 2016, our country has increased by EUR 5.29 billion and by more than 13,000 jobs. Hungary is currently the world's fourth largest electric battery manufacturer thanks to battery investments. In the last two years, the electric battery has been our country's number one export product for 19 months. So we are counting on these data, and I would like to ask the LMP faction and fellow Members to be consistent with the issue of battery and electric car [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And the things you've said so far, keep them in your sights. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-02-27-4	I now give the floor to Bence of Turdai.
u2023-02-27-5	Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Dear Guests! Perhaps many do not understand where Viktor Orbán has gone. Two hours ago, Parliament's website said that today, before the agenda, it will report on the government's decisions over the past period. Well, Viktor Orbán is not here, and that is actually understandable, not surprising, because there is not much to be proud of. We hope, together with this, that we will be able to see you not only in the hour of immediate questioning, but we will also welcome you to the debate day on battery factories, which is initiated by the Dialogue, starting tonight at six o'clock. But let me tell you what I would have thrown at you if you had come, Prime Minister, because the activity of the last few months, the government activity of Fidesz, shows that there is no room for manoeuvre for the government; its possibilities for action, its ability to act, and the Hungarian government is not sovereign. First of all, there is nothing you can do about the livelihood crisis. It can be seen that the economic policy followed so far has resulted in the Hungarian economy slipping; it is not able to produce wages, incomes that are taking the step with fast inflation, while food inflation is more than 50 percent, pension increases are only 15 percent and wages in Europe are the second lowest. [[13.30]] If we look at the minimum wage alone, the Romanians have already left us, and only Bulgaria can earn less. Agriculture is weak; this is one of the reasons for food inflation. The Hungarian currency, the forint, is weak; this is partly a consequence of the catfight between the central bank and the government. So we can see that there is no room for manoeuvre, no ability for the government to break down inflation and solve the livelihood crisis. But in the same way, he has no capacity, no room for manoeuvre to alleviate the energy crisis, as Viktor Orbán has delivered Hungary to Russia and fossil energy. The green turn left behind that would have helped Hungary's energy self-determination and climate war. And when we look for reasons, we can't really find them. It is certainly not in Hungary's interest to heat our houses with expensive Russian natural gas. It would be in Hungary's interest that we use as little energy as possible and that as much of it should come from renewable sources. We must therefore think that not only Hungary exposed itself to Russia, but also Viktor Orbán personally exposed Vladimir Putin in some way. We also see that what is happening on the renewable front is only because of the pressure of the Union, and they are most enthusiastic as if they were pulling their teeth. Today, the Fidesz majority voted against the Dialogue proposal to finally install wind power plants again in Hungary. So while in words and written plans, in the recovery plan, they are committed to wind energy, in practice, they still reward it with a non-voting if someone wants to create this reality. And after they fail to see that Hungary is a poor country in energy and we already need 30 percent imports, the further insane expansion of the battery plants will result in more than 1.5 percent higher energy demand by 2030. I'm sure they won't be able to bring this. In the same way, the Orbán government has no room for manoeuvre in European politics. He is in a three-way grip, on the one hand exposed to Vladimir Putin, on the other hand he is exposed to money coming from Europe because of a weak economy, and on the third he is exposed to his own propaganda. This follows the shameful position that you stand for the war in Ukraine, which is why Hungary is on the bench of shame, which is why every good Hungarian person feels second-hand shame. That is why in the debate on the rule of law with the EU they back down and, if not in the measures enabling theft, at least in green and democratic matters, they are constantly giving up their positions. And that is why, while Viktor Orbán settles the country by saying that 97 percent of the Hungarians in the Kubatov list rejects sanctions, he also voted cheerfully in favour of the tenth sanction package. Some Russians wanted an exception for war criminals, but they couldn't even handle it. So much for the vast scope and tactical genius. So bad policies lead to no room for manoeuvre. The construction of the orange empire, instead of green Hungary, leads to people paying the price of this failed country. With the good news of Hungary, we pay for this shameful policy. And as long as this does not change, as long as the orange empire is still being built instead of the green Hungary, not in the government, but in good luck at best. So good luck, Hungary. [[A round of applause in the dialogue.]]
u2023-02-27-6	I give the floor to Secretary Csaba Dömötör.
u2023-02-27-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, You said there was nothing to be proud of. On the other hand, this country is doing everything it can to cope with such an exceptional situation, and this is also true of the economic situation. Economic growth is much higher than the EU average. You think it's nothing. If we look at the unemployment figures that we brought down from 12 percent after your governance, then we can say that employment in Hungary is back on record. That's what you're saying, nothing. He mentioned the issue of pension increases. You were the ones who took away the 13th pension, and this government was the one who gave it back. And this is the government that is helping our older compatriots with a pension supplement and a pension premium, and this year there was an increase. That's what you're saying, nothing. As far as wages are concerned, let's say minimum wage. When you were in government, you were able to raise the minimum wage by twenty-thousand forints, and during the current administration, the minimum wage tripled. That's what you're saying, nothing. And if you look at the concrete measures: it was this government that, in this extraordinary situation, introduced price stops, such as a interest stop, a food stop. This government is the one that, despite all the left-wing criticism, maintains the overhead support. This alone represents HUF 181 thousand per month of support. On the other hand, what are you offering? On the one hand, they are attacking all these measures and on the other hand, they have put a lot of tax increases on the table: corporate tax increases, personal income tax increases, and even carbon taxes. As far as green is concerned, it is quite amazing that in one speech the government is called to account for supporting green investments, such as a battery factory, and in the other speech they spread their hands and say where the green turn is. At least coordinate with each other, ladies and gentlemen, on the left. As for energy dependence and energy policy: you know very well because a few days ago we talked about this in a debate, that this is the government that assisted it with interconnectors and built them so that we would not be so dependent on Russian gas that gas could come from elsewhere. This government was the one that made LNG shipments possible. It was this government that took back the MOL shares. It was this government that recovered the containers, the containers that were sold by those sitting next to you in a few chairs. Do you understand, Congressman? ! If it were up to you, there would be no gas in Hungary in this war situation. You suggested that the gas taps be closed. That's your suggestion. And not only would the Paks Nuclear Power Plant not work, and Hungarian families would not receive HUF 181 thousand in overhead support. Honourable Congressman, In recent months, we have had to deal with a variety of difficulties, but the opposition is, in fact, nothing, but we have received no help. In fact, a lot of proposals have been made and many decisions have been made that are simply not in Hungary's interest. This is a direct consequence of the fact that the left is a dollar base for his policy. After that, there are a few questions. Most of all, the question, honourable Member, is what it is. For example, their position is to send weapons and soldiers to the battlefield, how much does it cost? When the gas taps were required to be shut down, how many bundles of green bellies? When they make it impossible to operate the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, how much is that, how much is that? When you're campaigning to not get the EU money, and you're voting like this in Parliament, is it already in the 4 billion you've received, or isn't in it yet, and then you get it? You can protest, you can look away, you can try to make it go away, and that is still the case, honourable Member, that the policy that you, the entire left has represented in recent months, has not been requested by anyone in Hungary. No one asked for that! That's what others asked for! And it may be in the interests of others, and it may be in the interests of others, but it is not in the interests of our country. And the range of the dollar scandal, as these few examples show, was not just until the election. It is in all their current political actions, in all their current resolutions, especially on war and sanctions. This is the big difference between left-wing and national policy: one dollar-based and the other national interest-based. Believe me, the electorate knows that very well. Therefore, until this policy is changed, the results of the elections will be the same as last April. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-27-8	I now give the floor to Vice-President Dóra Dúró on behalf of the Group of our country.
u2023-02-27-9	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In 2022 Hungary has completed the fourth worst demographic year since 1900, of course if the war years are not counted here. It is a disaster that has occurred in terms of deaths, as we have seen thousands of additional deaths in Hungary compared to all years from 2007 to 2019. In 2005, the number of deaths was similar, but at that time the population of Hungary was 490,000 more. In terms of the number of avoidable deaths in the European Union, we are the second, and the government does not have any strategy on how to prevent lifestyle-related deaths, because low-mobility lifestyles, smoking, alcohol consumption and improper nutrition all contribute to the fact that the health status of the Hungarian population is as disastrous as it is. This was accompanied by problems caused by Covid closures, as it can be shown that people spent 54 percent less time moving, for example, during the closure period, with an average weight increase of 4-5 kg. [[13.40]] But not only in recent years this indicator has deteriorated, but since 2014 there has been a steady increase in obesity, not only among adults but also, unfortunately, among children and young people. I am very pleased to note that the government has launched a campaign among young people calling on the dangers of energy drink consumption, but it is a very hypocritical and Pharisee, because you are trying to protect young people from the harmful effects of energy drinks by supporting the company that has produced this by HUF 18 billion in recent years. So you're telling your parents that we're protecting your children from energy drinks, but we're using your parents' taxes to support the company that makes it. Decide what you want, and if it is really important for you to protect young people from the consumption of energy drinks and many other harmful foods, do not support the production of this with taxpayers' money. This money would also have been a much better place than Hungarian businesses that produce, for example, organic food and healthy food. But Hungary closed a catastrophic year not only in terms of deaths and healthy lifestyles, but the number of births has been the second worst since 1900 in 2022. I hoped that, here, on the first day of the Parliament's meeting, a family policy action clause would be announced, seeing how much of a problem has occurred, because since 2011 fertility in Hungary has not fallen this is a real recognition to the current Hungarian government that there has not been an example of this since 2011, but now it has fallen from 1,59 to 1.52. And we can already see that what Viktor Orbán set out in 2018 after his then election in this pulpit to reach the 2.1 fertility rate by 2030, which would mean a nation growing in its number of souls, we will not be able to achieve it now, and certainly will not be able to achieve it at this target date. This is the balance sheet for 2022. Compared to this, on January 1st this year, all family support lost their real value! Not only is one or two, but each is worth less than it was worth last year, I even go further, for example, the tax relief for three children is worth a third of what it means when it was introduced. That's how much family support has lost its value, and you're not doing anything. Last year, for example, there were 73 working days when parents had to take care of their children. This is a huge disadvantage in the labour market, and the state does not provide any compensation or assistance to families. According to the Hungarian Movement, in order to have a predictable vision for young people, family support should at least be made a follow-up to inflation, so that we can truly become a growing nation again in the number of souls. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of our country and the Jobbik.]]
u2023-02-27-10	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2023-02-27-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, If this government has an important case, well, that's family policy. There is no government in Europe, there is no country in Europe today that spends as much on families as the Hungarian government does. In Hungary, HUF 3357 billion is included in the budget for family support, and this amount was not four-digit billion, but three-digit billion when we started our government, it was under a thousand billion, and now we are at HUF 3357 billion. We spend 4.3 percent of GDP, the total national product, on family support, there is no other country in Europe where you would see such, similar or higher numbers, and we have sought to help families in all areas of life, including those who wish to have children earlier; those who can have children later; those who raise their children alone; those who raise their children in large families; those who need a car; those who need an apartment; those who have student loans; those who would use their grandmother's help, say, with the help of 40. It wasn't a year when we didn't expand these measures, so this year is the same: we were able to introduce Mothers under the age of 30 this year's absence. So not only do mothers with four children have eternal life or eternal tax exemption, sheath exemption, but mothers under the age of 30 have this. And, honourable Member, you can underestimate this result that we have achieved in recent years, together with the Hungarian families and the Hungarian government, but still, if you look at the number of children's desire, which you have quoted, the total fertility rate, so the average number of children for two parents, well, this was 1.23 at the beginning of our governance, so it was around 1.2, and now 1.52. This is a significant increase in recent years, thanks to the fact that we have placed our family policy on a stable footing, we have been committed to this, and we can have any critical time in the whole world, everywhere, because because of the energy crisis, because of the sanctions, everyone is struggling because of the war, but we have said that this may be one of the most difficult economic years, but the range of family support will continue to grow and we will introduce a new measure, despite the fact that everyone is really struggling with great difficulties and has had to put huge money into the Rezsédégédésség. And another number, if you allow me, Madam honourable Member: if you compare the birth number of January this year with the birth number of January last year, you will see that there is a 12 percent surplus in it. There is no doubt that the proportion of women of childbearing age has been declining in our society for years, which is why it was important to start preparing for this demographic turn of events ten years ago. So we managed to achieve that 12 percent more children were born in January this year than in January last year. As far as preventable deaths and healthy lifestyles are concerned, the various statements of the European Union show how many deaths could be prevented with life-style issues. Well, I didn't hear your big, vehement support contributions when we were talking about, say, the introduction of everyday physical education. [[Dóra Dúró: That's not true!]] This helps one to have a passion for sport, to get to know a sport, and to be part of everyday sport, instead, we have constantly heard the sarcasm of how it is; or even the sporttao support system is constantly being attacked instead of agreeing that yes, there is a need for as many sports as possible and sports facilities in general, so it is important that these are created. When we introduced the chipsax, I can't remember the loud support, because all the products that are unhealthy, which if you get addicted to, it makes your own life prospects worse, because it destroys your own body with excessive sugar intake, taurine and others. When we cut back on tobacco products so that it could only be bought in trams, you didn't say that you couldn't buy cigarettes in the store at least 18 years old, and, thank God, that's the change, they just told you that's all they had to communicate with. When we introduced the reform menu at school, that we gradually reduced the intake of salt year after year, you said constantly that the food in schools is inedible, terrible, because of this cafeteria regulation, which brought in more vegetables, more fruit, more dairy products, that made food inedible, and that it was not possible to cook such food that was constantly attacked. But I can't remember when they would have supported us when we raised the framework for the school milk and fruit scheme from HUF 600 million to HUF 6 billion, and I could continue [[The president's ringing the bell.]] our actions in the area of school buffets and others. Then they listened and didn't support them. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-27-12	Now it's time for Jobbik's representative, Brenner Koloman. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-02-27-13	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me to make a thought experiment. What if 33 years after the change of regime, we lived in a balanced civil democracy, when public media, the public media from over 100 billion forints of Hungarian tax-paying citizens, reported on the opening speech of the Jobbik-Conservatives. [[13.50]] I think that everyone could have compared this speech with Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's opening speech to a rather interesting audience, which I recommend to everyone, so it can be viewed on the Internet. I think this is a very serious signal to all those who believe that the idea of civil Hungary is not just a political product formulated by Fidesz. I think we need to lead the right out of the Egyptian captivity of Fidesz one-party overpower. Look at this speech, ladies and gentlemen. [[Bence Rétvári: Let's not listen, let's just watch?]] look at this speech as the beginning of a movement [[Bence Rétvári: Again?]] A civil alliance whose core will be represented by the Jobbik-Conservatives, because it is our responsibility that patriotism be like Count István Széchenyi again. As a citizen of Sopron poncichter, I took an oath at the tomb of the Count Nagycenk as a student. We remember well... yes, that was at the time when Prime Minister Viktor Orbán went to Oxford with a Soros scholarship as an extreme liberal politician, let us not forget. I think we need to say that right-wingness is the 21st. It cannot mean what the Fidesz government currently represents: Russian pro-Russianism and nagging, Russian pro-Russianism with musca leaders. Your Stalinian peace locker wine is an aphrodisiac rhetoric, which is vile and cynical. [[Bence Rétvári: What?]] He uses the natural desire for peace in all of us, the peace of November 4, 1956, the peace of the gallows. This is your desire for peace, and this is your peace camp. [[Bence Rétvári: What are you talking about?]] I think that we, who elevate the punchy flag of 23 October 1956, who once again elevate the idea of civil Hungary, wait for everyone who rejects the extremes, because being conservative means believing that human dignity is above all entitled to protection in the European cultural circle; human dignity, which we conservatives have derived from the divine revelation, cannot be overwritten by any extremes. And therefore we reject any ideology that views humans as an instrument, but we also reject that which advocates anti-communicative behaviour in favour of unlimited self-realization. We conservatives know that the state is responsible for the 21st century. In the 20th century, it was to make it work well and to provide well-functioning education, health care and housing for Hungarian citizens. But it is not the duty of the state, as a fidesz one-party overpower, to dictate to Hungarian citizens how to live, what to think, and if anyone dares to think about something else, to create an enemy and use hate-promotion. We believe that individual performance must be delineated and supported positively by the state, but we also believe as a political party on a Christian-social basis that the needy must provide adequate support for a XXI. In the EU Member State of the 20th century, the state. Let us not forget: in the European Parliament elections next May, each vote cast on Fidesz means that the chances of Viktor Orbán and Fidesz leading our country out of the European Union are increasing. No! Since our King Saint Stephen, we have insisted on Western values and European values, Greek philosophy, Christian culture and rule of law. That's what you've been listening to as the rule of law lately, and you have a lot to listen to. Let the flag of civil Hungary rise! We're waiting for everyone. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2023-02-27-14	Glory to Imre Steindl! Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2023-02-27-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to quote to you the gentleman you quoted:, It is time for us to assess the number of people of Jewish origin living here, and especially in the Hungarian Parliament and the Hungarian government, who pose a certain national security risk to Hungary. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Is this the bourgeois?]] You have recommended the words of this gentleman to our attention, saying that the Hungarian media, especially the public media, should echo the words of this gentleman everywhere, repeat and talk about it to everyone. But he said that the words of this gentleman, Márton Gyöngyösi, your party president, can be found on the Internet, and I am sure that his last speech can be found on the Internet, but also here. And if there was any confusion in the history of Hungarian parliamentarism, it is certain that your speech fits in with them. After that, you told Márton Gyöngyösi that he would be the one to lead out of Egypt the people trapped there, trapped in captivity. We all know from the Scriptures, the Bible, that he led the Jews out, and you are the one who is able to pronounce that analogy to that man. Let's just think about it. So you're talking about a civic thought, and there's a limit to being distasteful, to using such an Old Testament metaphor to the very person who said here in Parliament that everyone who is Jewish and believes in the Old Testament should be listed. This civil rhetoric, in your opinion, doesn't even pay attention to taste and proportion issues so much that he will be the new Moses? ! [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I don't understand how you talk about this. You told me about the flag with the hole in it. What did you say to Gergely Pongráz, our 56 hero, our revolutionary, our freedom fighter, brother of your operation in the last few days? I am appalled to hear that my brother Gergely, Jobbik, who joined alliance with the spiritual heirs of the 1956 freedom fighting communists, DK and other Balliberal parties, refers to my brother Gergely at the party's national convention to conceal his balliberal attachment. That's not what we're saying. That's what you're referring to. Even in his life, Gergely Pongráz distanced himself from what Jobbik had done by linking himself to the heirs of the oppressors of the revolution, and then wanted to appear as a civil right-wing Christian Democratic Party. You have changed your name to symbolize a renewal, but how many of you are this renewal? You don't have renewals, you have disbeliefs, you have demise. They reveal a lot of things about how they linked themselves to Ferenc Gyurcsány and to the left, to the left, which is a dollar left that sold Hungary's future and politics for cash for millions of dollars equivalent to 4 billion forints, and so you were able to say several times in the camera that you would send weapons or soldiers to war next door if other NATO members, the other EU countries, did so. It is now more than a year after the unfortunate outbreak of war that the other countries are doing so. You said if the others go, we go, and now we see that the others send, send and send the weapons. This shows the danger associated with national treason, honourable Member, and indeed, the whole name of the Jobbik Hungary Movement has now been taken out of the role of the Hungarian for Hungary. First, the double cross was replaced with hashtag, and now they replace the part of the, for Hungary, with the Conservatives. Obviously there will be many exchanges, and there will also be rainbows from red and white to green sooner or later, but, honourable Member, this is what the Hungarian people have not forgiven you: there are thirty or so of you sitting here, and here is a fraction of this. You cannot be so unethical, honourable Member, and you cannot ignore the electorate so much, nor consider voters to be serious, that today you are anti-Gyurcsány, and tomorrow you are pro-Gyurcsány. Who was the only party in the history of Hungary who burned an EU flag? The Jobbik. And whose representative is now teaching us about Europeanism and what it means to belong to the European Union? You flag burners say that we are not pro-union enough to make the EU flag...? ! Honourable Congressman, Our party, our party family, is pro-European, pro-European, European Union, that is what we will always do. We will not behave as you have behaved in an actual political situation, that when you had to burn a flag, you did so when you had to take the word "for Hungary" out of your name, and then you took it out. Congressman, thank God, civil value, civil values are not represented by Jobbik, but by the Fidesz-KDNP Party Party as a party. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. László György Lukács: Yeah, right!]]
u2023-02-27-16	Member István Hiller also came forward to comment before the agenda. You have the floor.
u2023-02-27-17	Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Well, it's the age of the Archbishop again. There is a need to keep up with the changes, honourable House, so I will make my speech accordingly. [[14.00]] [[???Olim lingua officialis dietae Regni Hungariae per saecula lingua Latina fuit. Et nunc iterum tempus supremorum comitium venit! Loquere lingua Latina iterum necesse et modernum est!???]] [[Representatives of the Jobbik faction are leaving the Chamber. Bence Rétvári pointed to the better representatives: They are coming out!]] The official language of the National Assembly of the Kingdom of Hungary was Latin, I say this only because of those who are still at mid-point, and then they also keep pace with time and get to an upper level. And now once again the age of the Archbishops, speaking Latin again is necessary and modern, honourable fellow Members! But we shouldn't stop here. The path to new feudalism is so wide, there are so many opportunities. For example, there is a question of motivation. In recognition of the work of the new Archbishops and County officials, a new award should already be created. This year we celebrate the 200th birthday of our great poet Sándor Petőfi, and it is worth turning to him and creating the Pál Pató Prize. In Latin: pramium de Paolo de Pato nominatum. But here's the National Basics, the foundation of teaching. But what am I saying, "National Basics"? ! It would be much more modern to call it the norm of fundamental studioum nationalis. There is a matter here that is very timely in the age of the Archbishop, the reinterpretation of which, honourable Members, is very timely. The case was recorded by a Michaelis Figulus, Mihály Fazekas. The possession of domestic geese, anser domestica dominus illustrissimus de Döbrogh, vulgo Döbörgyi sir versus Mátyás Lúdas, vulgo Matyi Lúdas is a citizen of serfdom. This was considered very wrong in the past eras, and the task of reorganized, modern administration and administration of teaching should now be to put it in order. This is also necessary because it has been measured twice over a long period of time, as well as in Brussels, but as I speak, correctly modular Bruxelliensis bipolaris, because the weight difference existing between the two parties, my lord Döbördi and Mátyás Lúdas has not been taken into account, giving an undue advantage to the named Mátyás Lúdas when, for example, running or reaching a particular point. In view of this, the new territorially competent minister must put the issue in a new and correct light. Now they'd think I was joking. But you know what the worst part is? That I'm being totally serious. I'm totally serious! So rogo dominum ministrum seu secretarium rei publicae in more aetatis novae simililiter in lingua Latina esponsum dare. I would ask Minister or Secretary of State to respond in Latin according to the order of the new era. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the opposition benches. Sándor Font: There is still a place in the Nationals!]]
u2023-02-27-18	Honourable Congressman, As former vice-president, you know perfectly well that your position as a housekeeper cannot be called upon to speak Latin here, because it is not possible according to house rules. However, I have listened to your comment on your impressive education that it was worthy of your former presidency, and you will decide if you think a little about what you have done here as a performance. [[Szabolcs Szabó: Vote!]] I'm sorry if he meant everything he said. By the way, I couldn't make any sense of what he had to say. [[Applause and applause in the pro-government benches.]] But I hope that whoever answers from the government will do so. [[For signal:]] Next up is Bence Rétvári.
u2023-02-27-19	Honourable Congressman, Dear House, When liberal MEPs enter the Parliament, they are used to the Parliament here, if they do not take kindly to it, but they are used to trying to make a joke about Hungarian history, Hungarian traditions of public law, and they are trying to make people in Parliament laugh at it, whether they are accompanied by mediation. Because for them Hungarian history is a joke or not serious, at least that's how I say it. They came out of nowhere, and they're headed for nothing, so they're liberals. We are national, Christian, conservative people [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] However, we feel that we have a root, this is the history of our nation for 1100 years; and we stand on this pedestal, and that is how we imagine our future, and that is a very important part of our national roots. [[Szabolcs Szabó: You're getting funny! You're improving!]] But we know that there are liberals to whom that means nothing. So we don't judge them, we just tell them that we think differently than they do. Liberals don't say that, they want to ban the thinking we represent, so in the spirit of different PC and gender theories, people in some countries are banned from speaking like we do about men and women, and I can continue to do so. So we've seen it from the liberals in recent years. [[Ferenc Gelencsér: You were a member of the Liberal International!]] Not on your part, so I'm disappointed in your speech. The Latin parts are obviously brilliant, so I couldn't argue with them and I wouldn't want to argue with them, a Roman or two legal rules for me as Latin, but I don't have any legal questions right now. However, you were a sovereign thinker of the left, who knew Hungarian history very well and did not joke about it, but fed on these roots. And we felt that our roots and your roots would come together in person from the same breeding ground, so we would better find a common voice with you, honourable Member. That's why it was a little disappointing that, because of the fact that there are Archbishops in Hungary, they make a joke, because, you know, last time in the 1950s, the representatives of the Hungarian Workers' Party made a joke about being a high priest; first they took these positions, and then when they created the Council system, they renamed them, and then the county of the county of the county was called the chairman of the council. You know, the bounty and the serfs are still doing very well in Croatia, maybe even in Slovenia. Vojvodina is the name of the administrative districts there in Poland, because it is a tradition for them. And when we look at them from here, we often say what a beautiful tradition it is that they carry on like this, and when we call the county representative of the state a high priest again in Hungary, you make fun of it. We are paying for this mockery because our King Saint Stephen named them also. It is not a word of Hungarian origin, indeed, it has been used in the neighbouring countries, if you like, so it is a foreigner, but he called it that. We are proud of St. Stephen, because if he hadn't done what he did, if he had allowed either Konrad's armies or the Byzantines, which he could have conveniently done, Hungary wouldn't be here today. But he built a Hungarian administration, with Hungarian leaders and Hungarian Archbishops, and that is why our country still stands a thousand years later. And there wouldn't be a Parliament here, and we wouldn't speak Latin or Hungarian, but we would speak a different language if St. Stephen hadn't put our country on that basis. That's why we're proud of them, and that's why we stand up to your sarcasm, because that's what the SZDSZ did in 1990, that's when József Antall was mocked in this room. [[Gergely Harvester: Fidesz too!]] But luckily, all they could do was make fun of him, because in the last 30 years, you've been making fun of him. The party of the predecessor of the MSZP, the Hungarian Workers' Party, invited the police to the corridor, and led those who did not whistle here in Parliament, according to Rákosi's melody, or did not vote in the same way. That's what it means to us, even the name "Spanish." Yeah, we're proud of him. Yeah, you're gonna make fun of us. This is our class, but we believe that if it was good for 950 years from 1000 to 1950, then there was a 70-year break, when, not by our will, but by order of the Soviets who invaded us, the Soviet sample was taken over by the Soviet Council, and that's why there were councils and council presidents, and we went back to the pre-Soviet occupation period, and therefore we have to stand up a mockery, then we will stand out of you and the publicists and others. But still, we have the strength to stick together, and we feel that what we are fighting for, those who are painted on these walls, for Hungary, for the survival of Hungary. The statue was never erected for scorners, for those who mocked the Archbishops or abolished the position of the Archbishop in Hungary. [[A statement from the opposition: You won't have one either.]] But excellent Archbishops, who even gave their lives for Hungary, have sculptures. They're our role models. And we don't want to knock down these statues, we don't want to knock down these idols, we want to live at this age, according to the needs of today. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-27-20	I now give the floor to Miklós Dawn, on behalf of Momentum.
u2023-02-27-21	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Last Wednesday, February 22nd, we witnessed a very sad scene: 200 kilometers from here, in Debrecen, the local election committee rejected the referendum questions about the battery factory. He also rejected the question submitted by Momentum's representative, László Mándi. We deliberately submitted exactly the same question, which the local election committee approved a few months ago, on October 17th. Only then the LMP didn't record the signature collection sheets. [[14.10]] We also submitted the same question literally with the same words because we thought that if something had once passed the committee, it would have to be met next time. Last time the local election committee had two weeks to decide, this time they went to the wall on legal deadlines. The entire 30-day time frame has been used to find an excuse to reject a question that has already been approved once. Dear fellow Members, That wouldn't happen in a rule of law. What is appropriate in October, which will be approved in October, will not be discarded in February, will be cancelled. What if it's not a political decision? [[Intruder from DK's ranks: That's right!]] What is this if it is not a spitting out of the rule of law? Where's the legal certainty if they say A in October, B in February? ! The Violent Local Election Commission was practically on the side of the secretive Fidesz city leadership, and also on the side of the water-eating battery factory against the Debrecens. And the next day, the city administration even put a shovel on it when he accepted Debrecen's budget, in which an elegantly zero forint was entered into the referendums. So in Debrecen they want to continue to build a gigantic water-eating battery factory without asking the people there, and they do this with HUF 320 billion of public money. The city's decision cleared the situation, the city's not interested in the will of the Debrecen, they don't want to hear it. Although three quarters of the Debrecen people want a referendum, even the Fidesz people agree, the city leadership took that decision away from them. But it is not only the Fidesz city leadership, the Fidesz government has been a great supporter of battery factories for many years, we see this in Göd, Győr, Foton, Komárom and dozens of other cities; we see it now in Debrecen. We know precisely that it is not a parliamentary debate, not another speech that will stop these environmental-destructive government efforts, which is why we initiated a referendum. Momentum's position is clear: in Hungary there is no room for water-eating and environmental-destructive battery factories in Debrecen, Győr, Göd, or anywhere else. But we also believe that on serious matters, people's will must be asked from time to time. You, by the way, love the genre of national consultation. Well, I ask you, why don't you like the Battery vote? They like to refer to election results as giving you the right authority, well, I ask you, when the Gödi sent the Fidesz mayor away, then why did you convert the battery plant and its surroundings into an economic zone, why did they take the area away from the Gödi? Why doesn't the government respect their will? Obviously, you love the referendum and consultation only as long as you can write the questions, and the decision of the local people is respected only as long as you agree with them. We are still ready to collect signatures, we are ready for the referendum to do the work that we have all sworn to do here; it would be the most important, our main task. That is why we will not abandon those who are fighting for justice, so we will appeal to the decision of the Violent Local Election Commission, and we will fight until the last moment so that the locals can decide; and the Debrecen will decide which is the right one, which is the right one for them. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the opposition benches.]]
u2023-02-27-22	Once again, I give the floor to Secretary Zsófia Koncz.
u2023-02-27-23	[[Without microphone:]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Can you hear it? [[Intercoms: No. Dr. Zsófia Koncz has a portable microphone in front of him.]] Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Firstly, I would like to start by saying that there are clear rules for referendums, and we know that even within the opposition there is no common position on this. Of course, any initiative that complies with the legal rules and the legal framework will be examined. I would also like to point out here that battery production has already been mentioned that you have taken quite a turn in battery production over the past few years. Back in 2021, a conflict press conference was held in Dunaújváros, attended by DK, Jobbik, Dialogue, LMP, Hungary of All Movement, Momentum, MSZP and Mayor of Dunaújváros, which clearly highlighted and expressed their views on how sad the battery plant will not be built in Dunaújváros. This shows, however, that I do not know what has happened here in the last few weeks, but we are a little surprised here, because during the previous session, we mainly discussed with the LMP, we may have argued, I think we even agreed on the importance of the age of electric cars, and what kind of government subsidies there are. [[Intercoms from DK's ranks.]] The thing is, and I'll tell you this, if this is going to get a lot of popularity behind my back, because I hear that you are feeling a lot of pressure to comment on the fact that green politicians and left-wing green politicians in Europe consider the expansion of battery production to be important, and, for example, in Germany, it is the green politicians who give, say, environmental permission. So these are arguments that need to be said, because there really is an incomprehensible situation here, and what we see now is that you are going there and trying to harass the people who live there for political gain. I think that there is a need to talk about this subject and to discuss and discuss the aspects that are likely to take place in detail on this day of debate for hours. I am very curious that, among the fellow Members who are here today raising the issue of the battery factory, they will really be sitting here on this day of debate, and they will follow this debate through. The subject you have raised is environmental protection and climate protection, on which the Hungarian government's position is unquestionable. Here the enormous increase in demand for battery production has been caused by one of mankind's greatest challenges, namely climate change. It has also been said that the European Parliament has decided that from 2035 it is expected that such electric cars will be allowed to enter into service and that the representatives of the parties who refer to themselves as green have often explained in the Hungarian Parliament how important the decarbonisation of the economy, the transition from fossil energy to renewable energy sources and the reduction of CO2 emissions have played a role. I think there hasn't actually been a debate in this, but now it seems that they have suddenly changed their position. In practice, Hungary is now performing better than most EU countries in terms of climate-neutral energy production, better than Cyprus, Ireland, Spain, so we have already taken the right steps in this regard in recent years. In connection with the CATL factory, environmental elements have been monitored very, very closely in the approved permit, such as a number of obligations imposed on the investor by the government agency to protect soil, air, noise, nature and water. This factory must comply with the strictest environmental rules in order to be able to build. On 18 February 2023, the Government Office published on its website a final decision closing the authorisation procedure. It should also be pointed out that when this factory announced a few years ago that it was building its model project plant in Arnstadt, Türing, the Christian Democratic Chancellor Merkel welcomed the decision, but green politicians also gave a positive statement. Later on, the factory's environmental license [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It was solemnly handed over by the Social Democratic Minister for Economic Affairs there and the Green Party Minister for the Environment. I think it is a key issue that Hungary is involved in this competition, and we are asking for the support of our fellow Members. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-27-24	László Varju also applied for a speech before the agenda. I give you the floor. [[14.20]]
u2023-02-27-25	Dear House, We have paid a heavy price for you squandering a decade of Hungarians' lives. Instead of paying EUR for today, instead of taking more steps towards European prosperity, Hungary is facing a serious livelihood crisis after the last 12 years of operation of the Orbán system. After a little good, nothing for a long time. Instead of a strong European country, we became Europe's poor country, and instead of European prosperity, deprivation and resignation became the routine of at least 4 million people every day. You have made us, at the same time, the European Union's worst earning, paying most taxes and buying at the highest prices. Whose government has done what, hasn't it? You can protest, you can look away, but you have arranged for the Hungarians to earn little, pay a lot of taxes, and at least buy expensively in stores. Today we must envy Romanian wages and Romanian prices at the same time, but imagine that they can replace any selected EU country here and remain true. Yes, we can be envious of Italian, French and German prices, because shopping is cheaper everywhere than in Hungary; they have lower inflation. There is a reason for the wonders of Hungary all over the world. There's a reason they're asking what's going on in your house, because we're the only ones with such high food prices. So, fellow Members, do not say that this is the war, because at first this was a mistake, and now this is a lie from you. In fact, milk, butter or dry noodles have become more valuable in the world, and Wall Street brokers don't run around nervously to invest their money in trappy cheese and a half percent milk as soon as possible. There is no such thing, as the world is not aware of the 50 percent increase in food prices, the lack of hyperinflationary, only we Hungarians. The only reason they became more expensive than us is because the Orbán system is getting more and more of the country; as György Matolcsy said, their countless bad economic decisions, the released budget, the insane investments, and I quote the President of the Hungarian National Bank, Hungary is today the fourth and fifth most financially vulnerable country in the world. You did this, and that's why we call it inflation in Orbán, because we're actually paying the price for the poor functioning of the Orbán system in stores. To put it simply, a kilo of bread costs a thousand forints because the Prime Minister's name is Viktor Orbán. [[Defiance from the Fidesz ranks.]] You think it's a viable sacrifice, and we don't think it is. You don't think anything is expensive so that you can remain in the uncontrollable power that has been made exclusive. We believe that nine million people are worth everything to end your urination, your parasites on humans. That is why we have set up the shadow government, and that is why we are offering Hungary a way out, a governor-like alternative. Today, the shadow government is the only hope that Hungary will find a way out of the crisis in which you have governed the country. If inflation in Orbán is no longer a disaster in itself, we have Europe's largest overhead increase, the sevenfold increase in overhead. You are looting the people as regional representatives of Gazprom, at a price never seen before. Apparently, Vladimir Putin can pay a bonus for it, because otherwise, why should we pay such a high price, while Europe's energy prices are at an unprecedented depth, and we pay like the military officer. The price of gas on the world market is not only on the floor, but it has already started digging, but we should not be paying the fifth of what you lied to us, but we have to raise the costs seven times for families and entrepreneurs. The overhead increase makes all services and products more expensive, everything is in the prices, but it is already there in every thought, discarded business plans, delayed family travel, fled abroad to university students and pensioners in the empty pocket of all ages. The consequence of this is that once successful businesses close down or start firing as an escape, as have a number of municipal cultural institutions shut down because of you. In fact, it is because of you that today the shadow government is Hungary's only hope for [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] to show us a way out of the livelihood crisis and finally to live in European prosperity without an Orbán system. [[Intercoms from Fidesz: Oh! Oh!]] Thank you. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-02-27-26	I give the floor to Secretary of State András Tállai.
u2023-02-27-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, That's an interesting speech you've made. You left out one thing about what's going on with this dollar left. [[Defiance from DK's ranks. A statement from DK: Rubel, you know, Secretary of State.]] How does your policy work? They also tell you in exchange for the dollars what to say in the Hungarian Parliament [[Gergely Harvestó: What did they tell you to say for the ruble?]] What to say about this government, what to do wrong? Then he also forgot that there is an inflation crisis in the world, in Europe and in Hungary. This crisis, this inflation, was caused by nothing other than the Brussels sanctions policy. [[Defiance from DK's ranks. Gergely Harvesto: Wow! And only in Hungary!]] The sanctions policy in Brussels, which you support in principle and without content. [[László Varju: Only Viktor Orbán supported it!]] The most important thing is that you meet your clients. Their clients, who say that the war must be supported, Hungary must be brought into the war, we must support the sanction, if we support it, the energy price will be high, and inflation will be high, and the livelihood in Hungary will be increasingly difficult. If it were up to you and you said that a year after the war Hungary will no longer be operational, Hungary will not have a functioning budget, the country will not be able to pay, the number of unemployed will increase and the economic performance will decrease. Now, let's look at reality. Hungary's budget is balanced and can pay its commitments. In Hungary, economic performance, economic growth is 4.6 percent in the year as a whole, and we are still in the top five in the European Union. As incredible as it is, despite your hopes and desires, the number of unemployed people in Hungary did not increase in 2022, and the number of unemployed fell from 4.1 percent to 3.6 percent. If we look at the fight against inflation, because the government is also doing everything it can to help people in the difficulties caused by inflation, if we look at macro numbers alone, gross average income has increased by 17.5 percent in the last year, with a significant increase in the minimum wage from 1 January. The increase in net earnings, the increase in real earnings, has been 2.6 percent in the last year. But if you look at the pension growth of pensioners, as of 1 January, pensioners have received a pension increase in excess of inflation over the whole of the last year. [[Interview from DK's ranks: No, it's not true!]] This rate is 15 percent. The pensioners also received the 13th month pension that you took from them during a much smaller crisis and difficulty. The Fidesz government did not take it in the face of such difficulties, but gave the pensioners their 13th month pension back to the 15 percent increase. Honourable Congressman, In addition, the government has taken a number of measures against inflation, such as the interest-stop system in addition to price-stops. Of course, all of this can be underestimated, and it can be said that this is not enough. Indeed, we must continue to fight inflation and really make decisions that make life easier for Hungarian people, Hungarian families. [[14.30]] We also need to see and know that the country is in a really difficult economic situation, but the economy is working, the public administration system is working, Hungary is working [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and Hungary will work. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-02-27-28	Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, representative of KDNP, also came forward before the agenda. I give the floor to the congressman.
u2023-02-27-29	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I couldn't stand it without smiling that on the LMP laptops that work with batteries, it says, "Stop Batteries!" I'm sorry, I'm sorry, [[Defiance.]] Sorry about the little color. Maybe that laptop's powered by wind. So in West war-related sanctioned propaganda, as a homework exercise, he constantly mantrases the success of sanctions policy. There have been statements by the Western elite that Brussels is sharpening a fate-changing sanction package; the Russian economic collapse is imminent; the end of the war is predicted by strangling austerity. Just as surprising as you are. Last year we have heard from you that sanctions are good, sanctions work, and even more sanctions are needed. It is quite clear that sanctions policy is more abusing Europe and Western economies than the war aggressor Russia. However, the Brussels elite has learned nothing from the lessons of the last year. A few examples of recent weeks: the President of the Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, acknowledged that they had started working on sanctions with Washington a few months before the war started. A few days' notice: sanctions work so well that the Wall Street Journal advises Americans to skip a meal against high food prices. Many self-righteous Western European countries have increased Russian imports despite sanctions. For example, for the Netherlands, plus 51 percent, for Belgium plus 78 percent, for France plus 84 percent for Russian imports. The New York Times wrote that they believe that Russian imports could have returned to pre-war levels. And, well, your great friend, the Hungarophobic MEP, Guy Verhoftstadt, is on Twitter saying that nine sanctions packages, and the impact is less than zero. The sanctions policy is therefore wrong, the response to the war and the sanctions tsunami have begun to weaken the European economy and have brought penalty inflation to our necks. At the same time, however, Russia and the western, mainly American, multinationals made a lot of money in sanctioning inflation, as in 2022 the profits of the world oil and gas industry were projected to increase from 500 billion to 834 billion dollars. So the question that we Hungarians are asking over and over again is rightly raised: what was the point of the sanctions so far? And to whom is the penalty more painful: Moscow or the EU Member States? Brussels, of course, also has the text that has been studied, and it is mandatory to use it, according to which sanctions will only succeed in the long term and GDP figures should not be taken into account. Brussels keeps saying that the sanctions policy is successful as long as you believe it. The bureaucrats in Brussels, therefore, are caught in the machine belt and want Member States to adopt new sanctions packages without any basis of reality. The elite in Brussels thought and thought that everyone should play his pro-war and pro-sanctional sheet music. Common sense has recently become a deficit in Brussels. Therefore, Hungary is subject to selected insults from Brussels bureaucrats, for which we have made it clear: we will not allow the country's energy supply to be compromised. Brussels bureaucrats also promised that sanctions would bring the end of the war, and even if they had their teeth clenched, all Europeans would have to do their part. A year passed, and the end of the war didn't come any closer, but the end of the war vanished in sight. Instead of the end of the war, however, there was an energy crisis, skyrocketing inflation, and many economic downturns. There is a legitimate question: why is there penalty inflation throughout Europe? The sanctions took HUF 4000 billion out of the Hungarians' pocket in 2022. Hungarian companies, the state and families spent so much more on increased energy prices due to sanctions in Hungary. This amount could have been spent by companies on wage increases, tax reductions or family support, and families buying homes or their children. Hungary still does not contribute to gas, oil and nuclear sanctions, which would destroy Hungary and the Hungarian economy. Our economic relations must be maintained in all directions, and it would also be the right direction for the West if they were to help European families and European businesses instead of imposing sanctions. We need peace. And in order for inflation to fall, in order to boost the European economy, peace is needed, lives must be saved, and lives can only be saved by ceasefire and immediate peace negotiations. We want peace, and we will continue to work on it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-02-27-30	In response, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, shall have the floor.
u2023-02-27-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The actuality of this speech is that, while the war has been going on for a year, they continue to push for the same policy, and accordingly the tenth penalty package will be formed in Brussels. What's in this? Full energy sanctions, including gas supplies and nuclear energy. If someone would say that we have not yet seen an accurate written presentation on this, I would like to draw attention to the European Parliament's relevant resolution, which includes all the proposals for the sending of arms, as well as the proposals for additional sanctions and full energy sanctions. And they force this policy by ignoring the situation of the European economy, such as the 50 percent vulnerability of the European Union to Russian gas supplies. They also fail to take into account the fact that in five Member States there is a nuclear power plant that operates with Russian technology. The consequences are clear. If we look at the world's large economic areas, the European region has the greatest chance of economic downturn, economic competitiveness is permanently distorted, large companies move their investments and production to other regions, and inflation is skyrocketing. Mr President, Mr President, he pointed out that these sanctions alone cause additional expenditure of HUF 4000 billion. This narrows down the scope of the Hungarian economy by the sanctions policy. Thus, while the opposition received HUF 4 billion, the Hungarian economy's margin of manoeuvre was reduced by HUF 4000 billion. This year's economic prospects are also determined by what will happen to the war. Will there be peace, or on the contrary, will the operations cover? Unfortunately, the last few weeks have been more of an escalation of war. It's really not an exaggeration to say that what's going on right now could lead to World War II. But why isn't that too much to say? Dear House, So far, 35 countries have provided deadly military assets, primarily European countries, including Pakistan, Australia, Sudan and the United States. Within this, 17 countries have already decided to transport tanks. So it's not helmets, it's not stretchers, it's not small guns, it's heavy weapons. As the President of the European Commission has said, he does not distinguish between heavy and light weapons, Ukraine must have what it needs. [[A statement from the opposition: That's right!]] It is not irrelevant what Germany does in the meantime. Here we have an interesting political history of development. The German Chancellor is the Chancellor! A year ago, he was talking about not sending lethal weapons, only 5,000 helmets. He argued that there are reasons for this, which are based on developments in recent decades. So they were aware of the risks and the historical lessons. Compared to this, in August they were talking about sending 500 million euros of weapons into the war, and this year they offered Leopard tanks. The news of the last few days is also telling. According to the Brussels High Representative for Foreign Affairs, Josep Borrell, the most important thing is to deliver the right amount of weapons to the battlefield, not peace, but arms. I would like to draw attention to this in particular by the institutions in Brussels to the unprecedented step that the EU is preparing to finance shipments of arms and ammunition from its own budget. That's never happened before. Spain sends Leopard tanks and artillery systems. Great Britain wants to send long-range weapons. The United States sends weapons worth $2 billion - an amazing amount! So not so long ago it was a few thousand helmets, now it has become the sending of tanks, rocket systems, and ever more powerful weapons. These are not steps towards peace, but the speeding paces of the march into war, which was sanctioned by the European Parliament a few days ago. This is also worrying because, when we look at the history of the European Union, it was originally a peace project, not a weapon project, not a war project, but a peace project. And we'd like to stay at this. Of course, we are well aware of the opposition's position: dollars in, weapons over, our soldiers out, into war. We say no to that, we say no to that. That is why I believe it is important that the Hungarian Parliament also expresses its position in a declaration, the position based on the clear message and outcome of last year's election: only peace negotiations can save lives. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] No one can win in this war, so it's in our fundamental interest to stay out of it. Thank you for the attention of this House. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]] [[14.40]]
u2023-02-27-32	Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi asked for the floor, on behalf of Fidesz, I give it to you.
u2023-02-27-33	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Our Child Protection Act has been challenged and violated, and the fight continues to be announced by Máté Kocsis, Head of the Group, responding to one of the most outrageous cases in the past period. The physical and mental abuse of a child is one of the ugliest, most repulsive acts a person can commit, so we must fight with every means at our disposal to curb it. It is 2023, and unfortunately, it seems that the greatest possible danger to our children of pedophilia is refocused on a recent series of scandalous actions by a pedagogical assistant in contact with children every day during his work. It is shocking and outrageous, as the elementary school employee claims that he is after minors, and nobody dares to take account of it, because he is protected by the Soros TSA, the Helsinki Committee and the PDS close to Gyurcsány. A man like that has no place near our children. What has happened is that LGBTQ propaganda threatens children, there is a need for child protection law, we cannot allow LGBTQ propaganda into kindergartens and schools. In our view, the issue of child protection is one of the most important issues, and in the referendum last April, it received extraordinary support such as no other case has received since 1989. People have clearly expressed their will. Ladies and gentlemen, However, legislation must and must be enforced. It is not possible for any member of the child protection warning system to turn a blind eye to such cases and not to report that he is more afraid of the attack of the LGBTQ organisations financed by Soros, the unscrupulous representatives of the opposition parties stuffed with rolling dollars or liberal media than to comply with our laws and signal if there is danger to our children. Don't have to be afraid of educators from the Soros organization's discrediting campaign. Here I would also like to thank Professor Bagdy Emőke for her professional opinion and her courageous stand on this matter. Ladies and gentlemen, Many have asked that we are not afraid of Brussels' revenge. No, we're not. There is zero tolerance on this issue in Hungary. We cannot allow such serious acts to be relativised. Any attempt to accept such outrageous acts must be fundamentally suppressed, for which we will create additional instruments beyond the current strong legislative environment. There are those who openly provoke us by presenting the acts they have committed, but we must do everything we can to bring down the harshness of our laws upon the invisible flat sumes. It is important for every member of society to feel responsible on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, All adults are responsible for all children. When we let our children go to school, kindergarten, play sports, play, we need to know that there's always an adult, and there's always an adult who, if there's a problem, it helps; that's why a society works, anyone gets hurt, someone steps and helps. During the debate on the anti-pedophile bill, we have already said that anyone who commits a pedophile, sexual or any crime to harm our children should expect to strike him with the full rigor of the law. Ladies and gentlemen, We stand behind the Prime Minister's goal of having the strictest child protection law in Hungary, and we will focus all our efforts on ensuring that this is respected. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-02-27-34	I give the floor to Secretary Robert Répássy. Here you go.
u2023-02-27-35	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The repulsive case you have presented and referred to has once again shown the importance of child protection, the fact that the moral and legal judgment of this case must coincide. So it is not enough to be outraged, it is not enough to condemn what all people of good taste have done in this matter, and I stress that all people of good taste have done to condemn this case, but here it is our responsibility that the law actually prescribes an order that protects our children. Because there is no dispute in giving the strictest possible answers to a crime committed to harm children, and in all such cases a rapid and thorough investigation has to be carried out, in this case as well. Dear House, The Prime Minister agreed with Interior Minister Sándor Pintér and several members of the government last week on the protection of children against genderideology, and the continuation of this could, of course, be brought before the House in the next few days. What is clear, however, is that the child is holy and inviolable. The children must be protected. Such persons, persons who commit such acts, should not be in a position to supervise, educate children or have any contact with children. Some false statements have been made in recent days, and I would like to state that the 2012 Btk. has not changed the so-called age of consent since 2002, since 14 years, since the decision of the Constitutional Court in 2002. But the 2012 new Btk. increased the protection of children with criminal protection and increased the protection of children as victims, so the Btk. requires that sexual abuse occurs when a person over the age of 18 engages in a sexual relationship with a child between the ages of 14 and 18 through abuse of his position of influence. So our children were protected against those people, the new Btk. protects it from those who may abuse their position of influence. Another issue is that the revision of the legislation, the enforcement of the legislation at all times, so if we think that there is still work to be done and there is a further possibility to tighten up the criminal code or other legislation, then this task must be carried out. As regards the so-called Child Protection Act, which protects children primarily against sexual propaganda, we will protect this law under all circumstances as the Member said. Here, an EU attack on the Child Protection Act was launched, and the Child Protection Act does not allow schools to bring in genderideology or sexual propaganda that would involve our children in educational propaganda other than that defined by parents. This is the clear command of the law: parents decide how to raise children, what information to receive, who can enlighten them. We do not allow this, so I think that there may be any clever judgment against Hungary, there may be any decision, I think that from the rule guaranteed in the Fundamental Law that raising children is primarily the responsibility of parents and everything else is a secondary aspect, even freedom of expression is a secondary aspect, we will not allow it. Dear House, So I think that, in the next period, we will still be able to address this issue, and this case you mentioned has shown that we cannot take any last steps in the area of child protection, and we must always take new and new steps. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-02-27-36	Dear Parliament, Liliana Grexa is now taking the floor before the agenda of the Ukrainian minority spokesperson. She will give the first sentences in her own mother tongue. I give you the floor, please. [[14.50]]
u2023-02-27-37	[[???Köszönöm a szót, elnök úr. Шановний пане Голово! Шановні депутати, представники національних меншин!???]] Mr President, Honourable Members, Ladies and gentlemen of the Nationalities Speakers! Before I begin my planned speech, I would like to mention an extraordinary event of great importance in the life of the Ukrainian ethnicity in Hungary, namely that the Hungarian government has created the legal conditions for the Ukrainian Nationality Municipality to be able to launch the first self-reserved Ukrainian minority supplementary language education school in this year's academic year. [[Applause on the pro-government side, sporadic applause on the opposition side.]] A lot of work and consultation preceded this moment, and we have a lot of work ahead of us, but I am sure that if this school starts, it will be an important foundation for further development of Ukrainian nationality in Hungary. Thank you for your support from the government, the relevant ministries. Ladies and gentlemen. It has been 368 days since Russia launched a full-scale attack on Ukraine, and it has been 368 days since those belonging to the Ukrainian nationality in Hungary have been watching the news with intense anxiety. Every night and morning they pray that their relatives and loved ones in Ukraine will survive, so that Ukraine will win the Russian aggressor attacking him as soon as possible, and so that peace can finally be found in Ukraine. For 368 days now, the Russian army has completely attacked the free-spirited people of an independent European country, equalizing Ukrainian cities, attacking energy systems, bombing housing, killing innocent people. But the Ukrainian people have been holding on to the Russian aggression demanding serious casualties for 368 days. True, in the meantime, nearly 18 million people were forced to leave their homeland because of the Russian attacks, and it is true that Ukraine needs international support to hold back the raging Russian aggressor in the longer term, because if the attacked Ukraine and the aggressor are comparing the territory, population or military forces of Russia numerically, it is the battle of David and Goliath. Yet, despite all this, not only on the front, but also in the hinterland, all Ukrainian adults, children persist in snow, frost and darkness unbreakable, because they believe in their country, their child's free, Russian-free future, Ukraine's territorial integrity, and deep faith in God. For a year now, the democratic international community, including Hungary and the Hungarian people, has been helping the Ukrainian people, Ukraine, and I am remembering not only the 368 days of unbreakableness, but also the 368 days of assistance and inclusion. I am grateful to all of you who have provided and will continue to provide assistance in any way. In addition, I regret to say that I do not think that we have had to endure so many baseless attacks in the life of the Ukrainians in Hungary. Unfortunately, Russian propaganda has also gained access to Hungary, but fortunately, it is a small minority. Thank the majority for their support and understanding [[Zoltán Varga: The government!]] And that they don't sit up for demagoguery. Although Ukrainian refugees are now surrounded by physical peace, there is still a war in their hearts, because part of their hearts and souls remained in Ukraine, and they will not rest until the last soldier of the Russian aggressor leaves Ukraine, and so there will be no peace. A part of their hearts and souls remained with their husbands, fathers, brothers and children, fighting on the front, with relatives and acquaintances who are trying to survive in the hinterland, to endure and help in some way contribute to the victory of Ukraine over the Russian aggressor. Their heart beats with those who are almost accustomed to the wailing air defense siren, which indicates that the aggressor is attacking again, and death is knocking again at the window of their house, home. Honourable Members, Dear Speakers, The Russian aggressor has been forced to fight life and death in Ukraine for 368 days, not only on the front, but in cities, villages and homes. Killer bombs don't have triggers. Therefore, we of the Ukrainian nationality in Hungary are grateful to all who continue to show solidarity with the Ukrainian people, understand and help them in this incredibly difficult and cruelly difficult situation. Let me conclude by quoting the words of Professor Viktor Traski of Transcarpathia of Hungarian origin, who, in the days following the outbreak of the war, volunteered to be a soldier without any pre-training, along with other associates, and has been fighting as a fire of the Munkács 128th attack brigade on the East Ukrainian front ever since. I quote his words:, The war amplifies various values, including national identity. We do exactly what the Hungarians did in 1848: we are fighting for our freedom. This is the link between the past and the present, the Hungarians and the Ukrainians. God help the defenders and people of the attacked Ukraine, God bless all Hungarians of help and God save Ukraine, Hungary and Europe in these times of distress! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties as well as the LMP, MSZP, Momentum, Dialogue, DK and Jobbik.]]
u2023-02-27-38	On behalf of the Government, Minister of State, Hungarian Levente wishes to reply. Here you go.
u2023-02-27-39	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Speaker Woman, Hungary's position on the war in Ukraine has been firm and consistent from the very first moment. Hungary has stood up for Ukraine's territorial integrity and sovereignty. [[Gergely Harvester: Shame on you!]] Hungary does not recognise the results of referendums in occupied Ukrainian territories, nor the annexio of Ukraine; we condemn Russia's aggression against Ukraine. We acknowledge the admirable resistance and perseverance of the Ukrainian people: if anyone, then we Hungarians, can appreciate the struggle of life and death against a multitude of overpowers with the death-defying courage and self-sacrifice we see from the Ukrainians. At the same time, it does not change the fact that Hungary has been on the side of peace all along, and Hungary does not support the further escalation, expansion and the likelihood of the geographical spread of this conflict by means of arms transfers. We do not support it even if we have allies, friends who experience Russian aggression as a real existential threat beyond the borders of Ukraine. Hungary does not regard the Ukrainian war as its own war, but considers it a tragedy deeply affecting Hungary and the Hungarian nation, as hundreds of Hungarians fight on the front, dozens and hundreds of Hungarians die and are wounded in this terrible war. This, just as the will to put an end to the suffering of the Ukrainian people, tells us that this war must end as soon as possible, by launching a peace negotiation without preconditions, which, of course, must be preceded by a ceasefire. Certain new realities need to be accepted by both parties and to sit at a negotiating table on which there are no unfulfilled conditions beyond the limits of red lines for each other. [[Ferenc Gyurcsány: Surrender!]] Dear Parliament, Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, Hungary does not supply weapons, but it helps Ukraine with all the other tools at its disposal. Hungary delivers to Ukraine the amount of diesel necessary for the annual operation of approximately two and a half million vehicles. [[Interviews from the benches of DK: Shame, shame!]] The oil flows from Hungary to Ukraine. Hungary invested tens of billions of forints in the reconstruction of destroyed Ukrainian infrastructure. Hungary was the first country to rebuild the kindergarten in the destroyed Borodjanka, which was also installed a few weeks ago, and so we give nearly a hundred Ukrainian children the opportunity to go back to kindergarten with Hungarian taxpayers' money. Hungary is the first country to start rebuilding public institutions in Bucsa; we will soon complete the work and a small hospital, local government, post office and health institution will be able to start operating. [[15.00]] Hungary is continuously building supply centres for internal refugees not only in Transcarpathia, but also in Galicia, in Lemberg, Ivano-Frankivsk county. For internal refugees in Transcarpathia, whose number exceeds 300,000 in Transcarpathia alone, Hungary is continuously building the supply infrastructure aimed at the spiritual healing, care and physical protection of these people, traumatized refugees. We build a home in Beregszász, we build refugee accommodations in Transcarpathia, we build health institutions and we finance Transcarpathia and Ukraine. Hungary is constantly delivering the necessary tools for education that are absolutely necessary for Ukrainian children participating in distance education and forced distance education. I could give a long list of the interventions and support measures that Hungary is taking to alleviate the suffering of the Ukrainian people. If anyone, either Brussels or the Hungarian left, would want to make the Hungarians feel that they are not doing enough to make us feel guilty because we are not transporting weapons, we can tell them that Hungary is on the side of peace, that it is in the interest of peace, and that it will give Ukraine all the humanitarian aid it has to offer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-27-40	Dear House, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has applied for a speech before the agenda today. I give the floor to Prime Minister. [[Members of the Momentum are leaving the meeting room. Intercoms from the pro-government line: Do you share the dollar? The others? The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2023-02-27-41	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In accordance with our parliamentary custom, I will report to you on the events that have taken place since the last Parliament meeting. It's been two months since we last met. In these two months the Russian-Ukrainian war continued, new sanctions were announced in Brussels, and it became clear that energy prices did not return to pre-war levels. [[Zoltán Varga: We have it!]] The price of gas remained three times higher than the pre-war prices after the uploading of gas reservoirs in Europe. Brussels sanctions and high energy prices have brought inflation. I would like to inform you that the financial closure at the end of the year shows that Hungary spent HUF 4000 billion more on energy in 2022 than it did in 21 years. Brussels took this money out of the pocket of Hungarians with sanctions. [[Gergely Harvesto: Come on! Putin!]] The national consultation on sanctions in Brussels ended in these two months. 97 percent is not a clear will: the Hungarian people disagree with the Brussels sanctions policy. In these two months, ladies and gentlemen, we have also learned the data of the previous annual performance of the Hungarian economy. In 2022, economic growth was 4.6 percent, there was more jobs than ever before, our export performance exceeded everything before, and last year the highest imports of capital to Hungary were more than 20 years ago. In 2022, the government deficit and government debt were also reduced, from 7.1 percent to 4.9 percent in 21; from 27 percent to 73.5 percent in 21. [[Sic!]] Underlining: deficit reduction and debt reduction in election year. Experts and leaders of the Ministry of Finance and the National Bank deserve recognition. Ladies and gentlemen, In February 2023 we were able to send 15 percent increase in pension and 15 percent increase in 13th month pension. From 1 January, family support has been extended with a new measure: women who then have children do not have to pay personal income tax until they are 30 years old, and at such a difficult time, the whole country can be proud of this performance. Ladies and gentlemen, It's been a year since Russia attacked Ukraine. This war doesn't take place in an unimaginable distance, this war is happening in our neighborhood, and it's causing loss to everyone. It is bad for the Ukrainians, bad for the Russians, bad for the Hungarian people, bad for Europe, and it is even clearer that it is bad for the whole world. People die by hundreds of thousands, and an incomprehensible amount of value is destroyed. The Hungarian government is very concerned about the fact that the whole of Europe is drifting into the war step by step. European countries are sending tanks, fighter planes are already on the table, and if this continues, there will be people who will want to send troops to Ukraine. The Hungarian people decided last April, and this was confirmed at the national consultation at the end of last year that Hungary must stay out of the war. This is why we do not deliver weapons, and the Hungarian government remains on the side of peace. We want the war to end as soon as possible, because we see that in this war, no one can win but the number of losers and the scale of losses are increasing every day. Since this war took place, hundreds of thousands have died; since this war took place, inflation has been sweeping the world, and there is an ongoing economic crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, If this war continues, more and more people will die. If this war continues, the threat of hyperinflationary and economic collapse will continue. If this war continues, no one in the world can feel safe and war can easily spread worldwide. Ladies and gentlemen, Fights can only be stopped by a ceasefire. Therefore, we need a ceasefire and peace talks. Hungary advocates peace at all international forums, and I see that the majority of the world, a large majority of them, also support peace. Hungary cannot isolate itself from the larger part of the world, which wants peace. We therefore also consider China's peace plan important and support it. On the first anniversary of the outbreak of the war, it is worth making clear to Hungary that it will not change its previous position, which is why I support the representatives of the Fidesz and the Christian Democratic People's Party, so that on the anniversary of the war, this House will state in its resolution that Hungary will remain pro-peace and will continue to stay out of the Russian-Ukrainian war. There is also a need for a clear resolution by the Parliament, because Hungary is under enormous pressure every day. Everyone can see they're trying to squeeze us into the war, they want us to join the pro-war countries. Political power centers are openly talking about this, but the same is what international speculators want to look for in the war. Financial speculators finance media and non-governmental pro-war organizations on a global scale, Hungary suffers daily provocations. I ask you not to sit on provocations and stick to the interests of Hungary in the arena of international politics. [[15.10]] Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Since our last meeting, the government has taken a number of decisions against inflation. In Europe, I see governments reacting to inflation with two kinds of policies: there are those who wait and there are those who intervene in economic processes. We belong to the second group. We are aware of the risks of intervention, but we believe that we are able to intervene at the right points and at optimal depth into the tissue of the economy. We cannot eliminate inflation this year, because its causes are not in Hungary. The problem was unleashed by Brussels with sanctions on energy sources. The name of the disease is sanctioned inflation and the virus itself is the sanction in Brussels. You know that Hungary has never agreed to sanctions. We have always said that this policy is more damaging to us than it is to Russia. And it is now clear that, although sanctions targeted Russia, Brussels actually hit Europe. The sanctions are causing energy prices to rise, and it's costing everything. It increases transport, production, which is why food prices, store prices and services are also rising. It's a domino that's been pushed in Brussels and run all over Europe. As long as there is no peace and Brussels does not withdraw sanctions, inflation cannot simply be eliminated. And while it is true that inflation can only be eliminated by Brussels, Member States can reduce it. That is why Hungary must act, and that is why the Hungarian government must intervene in economic processes. [[Bence of Turdai: Is this going to work?]] We're reducing it. [[Bence of Turdai: Moderately!]] We also have to consider that the higher industrial production in a country, the more energy needed, the higher inflation is caused by rising energy prices. A country that does not have oil, has no natural gas and has to import most of the energy, is particularly tortured by inflation, and Hungary is such a country. We have high industrial production, we do not have our own energy source, so we have higher than average inflation rates and it takes more time to break them down. Ladies and gentlemen, As long as the sanctions policy continues, as I said, we will not be able to eliminate inflation, but by the end of the year, by the end of 2023, we will be able to reduce inflation to one digit. To this end, twenty measures have been taken so far to reduce inflation and protect families. Ten out of the twenty measures protect jobs and ten protect families and pensioners. I'm going to explain these. We support small and medium-sized enterprises active in the energy intensive manufacturing industry with a total amount of HUF 220 billion. We've announced the Széchenyi card program. In 2023 we spend 290 billion forints on the preferential loan programme of Hungarian small businesses, in which small entrepreneurs can obtain loans at 5% interest against inflation rates. We have announced the factory rescue programme and the related factory rescue guarantee and loan programme. This year we will spend a total of HUF 230 billion to support the energy efficiency programmes of large companies, and the Hungarian Development Bank and Eximbank will launch a HUF 200 billion loan programme. These two together are HUF 430 billion. We announced a reindustrialization loan program named after Gábor Baross. With a budget of HUF 700 billion, we will launch a preferential fixed rate loan scheme to finance the export-enhancing investments of Hungarian companies. We extended the interest rate stop to small and medium-sized enterprises, extended it to loans from small and medium-sized enterprises, with a total loan of HUF 2000 billion, and helped 60 thousand companies with a maximum interest rate of 7,77 per cent. As a sixth point, we have created a new national capital holding system. A thousand billion HUF is available at the national capital holding to help resolve the capital situation of businesses, so that the lack of capital can not be an obstacle to keeping jobs. We've announced an agricultural moratorium. This was announced as a moratorium on loan repayment in order to protect Hungarian farmers. 7500 agricultural enterprises do not have to pay repayments and interest for 16 months after a loan of HUF 285 billion. We have announced a tourism action plan so that such businesses do not have to pay the development contribution. We didn't delete it, but we suspended it, and we accelerated the use of SZÉP cards so that Hungarians would spend their money at home. The ninth decision was to raise the level of support for work. The cost of going to work has been a tax reduction in Hungary so far, we have doubled this rate, which means that employers can support the work of 100,000 workers tax-free twice as much. Finally, we announced a labour support programme. 50 per cent of the labour costs are supported by an undertaking which, for a period of six months, hires unemployed jobseekers who are over 25 years old or who are unemployed for at least one month. The government has taken the next ten measures for the benefit of the families. We decided to maintain the system of reduced prices in 2023 to the extent of average consumption. We expect that in 2023 the reduced fee will be half of the market price and one quarter of the market gas price. This means that an average Hungarian family saves 181 thousand forints per month through reduced prices. This is unique throughout Europe. It is safe to say that Hungary spends most of its money to support families throughout Europe through reduced prices. As a result, the lowest prices of gas and electricity for households are the lowest in Hungary. [[Kálmán Olga: Jesus!]] This will also be held in 2023, and we have also provided financial support for this. We've raised the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage. Between 2010 and 2023, the minimum wage was tripled. This is the fourth largest increase for the whole European Union in this time frame. The 13th month pension has been reinstated from 1 January 2022. The situation was much easier then, since we were before the war and looking at our financial situation, we could pay the 13th month pension in 2023, and we even paid it without increasing the budget deficit. The food stop was extended and extended by the government. We have decided in principle that until inflation, sanctioning inflation, can be set on a downward path, this price stop system will remain. This is also true of the residential interest stop, which we also extended and extended. This measure, the residential interest stop, protects 350 thousand families against the increase in interest rates. We will lead to this system when interest rates start to decline. [[15.20]] The interest rate stop was extended to student loans by the government. This kind of interest rate stop protects 200,000 students from inflation. Training loans and Student loans2 are free of interest, and the interest on free-use Student loans1 is half of the market interest rate, and we can finance this in 23. The government also decided to reduce the cost of the base account, the bank's basic bank account fee credits [[Sic!]] we've reduced it to a third, and that's how it's gonna stay in 23rd. We've decided to reduce the burden of housing insurance. The rates of housing insurance are significantly reduced by the opening up of competition and the stricter regulation of tariffs. We will introduce the reduced rent for the county of Vársaság, as a monthly lease for both buses and railways will be published on 1 May 2023. The county lease will cost HUF 9450 a month, and the country lease will cost HUF 18 900 a month. According to our calculations, those who work by public transport can save thousands, perhaps tens of thousands of forints per month. Finally, as a tenth measure, we extended the firewood programme and the social firewood programme. In 152 parts of the country, firewood can be purchased directly from forest farms at a reduced price, representing more than 1.5 million cubic metres of firewood per year for families. Ladies and gentlemen, There are also beneficiaries of sanctioned energy prices. In 2022, the profit of the world oil and gas industry has increased from 500 billion in 21 years to 834 billion dollars, from 500 billion to 834 billion dollars in a single year. The profits of the energy giants are breaking records all over the world, and the rate of profit growth is about 70 percent, while these big mammoths haven't renewed anything, produced any more, and they simply pocketed the increased profits due to sanctions. Moreover, US companies give gas to Europe more expensively than they do at home, which means that most of the sanctions profits were paid by European companies and European people. Through increased prices, large international trading companies and banks have gained extra profit, including through increased interest rates. Hungary has already decided in 2022, and we repeat this in 23rd year, that we will take part of the extra profit in Hungary, not the former profit, the extra profit, and not all of it, but some of it will be taken away, and we will put this into the Rezsédvédelmi Fund, and we will finance from there our actions to help Hungarian families and Hungarian businesses, which I have just presented to you. I would also like to make it clear once again from this place that it will remain for families in 23rd year, with reduced prices, and thus the taxes that will make extra profit remain. I would also like to inform you, this House, that the government has also taken long-term energy policy decisions. Over the next decade, Hungarian industry will be modernised and developed rapidly. Our plan is to pursue an economic policy favourable to domestic and foreign investment. In this new industrial policy, we will need much more energy than we do today, and urgent decisions have to be taken here. We have taken the decisions needed to develop green energy, build and even accelerate Paks II, and we have also decided to put in place gas turbine power plants. At the same time, Azerbaijan and I agreed on new shipments of gas. I would also like to draw your attention and remind you that the southern interconnector, through which the gas enters Hungary, has become a percussion force for the Hungarian economy. The explosion of the North Stream, which, as you know, happened, was a simple act of terror, whoever did it was a terrorist operation. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] And what we need to know is that if they did it in the north, just to prevent gas from coming to Europe from Russia, if they blew up the northern pipeline for that purpose, they can do it in the south. Together with Serbia, we made it clear that if this happened, it wouldn't be as easy to get away with as it is now done by blowing up the Nord Stream. Ladies and gentlemen, In recent weeks, the government has had to deal with shocking and outrageous pedophiles. We had to look at the conditions in this regard, and I am sad to inform this House that the number of cases of child pornography in Hungary is increasing. In 2017, we learned 120 such cases, and in 2022 261, from 120 to 261 in four to five years. One can't understand how such a thing can happen in Hungary. Such things have no place in Hungary, especially in our schools. Therefore, the government gave clear instructions to the Hungarian authorities to investigate all such cases. We expect that I myself expect the school district leaders and school principals to have immediate consequences for all such cases. Our job as adults is to protect children, and this is not just for us parents; this is also true for teachers, school principals and district leaders. Such shameful cases show that this whole gender issue, gender propaganda, should not be taken lightly and should not be treated as a joke. It is a serious matter that threatens our children and underlines the responsibility of adults. However, the opinion of the Hungarians was clear, on 3 April last year there was a referendum on child protection, where 3 million 700 thousand Hungarians unanimously said no to genderpropaganda, even coming from Brussels. Even if the whole world goes crazy, if Brussels is apologizing for the unsaveable, Hungary should remain normal, an island in Europe where families can send their children to school safely! I ask every faction of the Parliament, regardless of party positions, to cooperate in protecting children. Mr President, Dear House, I also have to talk about the earthquake that has hit Turkey in recent weeks. Turkey is our friend and even our ally, so we Hungarians were among the first on the scene. It shows the strength and knowledge of our disaster protectors that they managed to save the lives of dozens of people. We owe them respect and thanks, we're proud of them. [[Applause.]] And, Honourable House, I must also say that we Hungarians must always stand up for our countrymen across the border, especially in times of war. We mourn the Hungarians who died in the front line of the Ukrainian-Russian war. It is painful that even during the war, our Transcarpathian compatriots in Ukraine suffer atrocities, that the right to use the Hungarian language will be mutilated and the directors of the Hungarian schools will be replaced. The Hungarian foreign affairs must clearly stand up and make it clear that Hungarians in Transcarpathia deserve more respect than that. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, In summary, I can tell you that in 2023 we have to face the dangers of the continuing war at the same time, with inflation, with migration threatening our southern borders, and at the same time we have to stand up for our countrymen across the border. [[15.30]] You see, 2023 is a dangerous year. In this dangerous year, the commandment of our Fundamental Law is to be peace, freedom and agreement. Please, regardless of the party position, let us help Hungary to get past this dangerous time with the strength of cooperation. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-27-42	Dear House, Prime Minister's speech went beyond 20 minutes. This is important from the point of view that the time available for the groups to respond will be 8 minutes. So I will give the floor to the applicants within an 8-8-minute time frame, first to György László Lukács, representative of Jobbik. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-02-27-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister, Allow me to add to the first part of your current evaluator, which was more about numbers and production indicators, which I think are missing. He's told us a lot of things, and he's told us economic data, and what the government has done in the past, but it's still part of telling us what you missed talking about. You failed to mention that you had closed 366 mailboxes during the last period. The thing is, you closed 129 police buildings, and they stayed that way. You guys are gonna shut down 200 GPs. So, for those numbers, and then we can add that Hungary has had the biggest price increase in food prices, too, because this is one of your indicators and results in recent years. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) As for the war, it must be clearly seen and the Jobbik-Conservatives [[Intruders from Fidesz: Oh!]] as a social-thinking community sees only one war, and as the saying holds it, there is only one war that is always fair, and this is the war against poverty, and this must be the rule of fists. The war that Russia is conducting is what Russia started, and in which the Ukrainian people have now found themselves in it, and for a year it has been fighting the aggressor, it is an unjust war. Prime Minister, when you talk about peace you like to talk about peace lately, you add that there is a need for a ceasefire and immediate peace. But we all know, and historical studies show that peace is led to a much longer process, and agreement is a much worse and more detailed stage. You always fail to tell me what you mean by peace. If we were to look at it now, and perhaps we could put ourselves in this situation, that if Ukraine were not bordering with Russia, but Hungary, and these acts of war would take place in the Hungarian territory, Prime Minister, which four counties would you give to the Russians in the spirit of peace? Because that's the case with the Ukrainians now. Their territory, which was protected by their territorial integrity, is now under Russian occupation. If we are talking about an immediate peace and an immediate ceasefire, we are not talking about what territorial needs the Ukrainian party otherwise has under the principle of territorial integrity that otherwise exists. So if we are talking about peace, there is no man in Hungary who does not wish peace, and I think we all share that. All Hungarians, especially with the war going on in our neighbourhood, must be on the side of peace. But peace must also be marked the way there. You regularly forget to say this, and I must say, and perhaps one of the great, I think it is a big difference, and this is what Hungarian society sees in you that, in addition to all this, you have a very good relationship with the Russian aggressor. There are very few states in most of Europe, but most of the world, who may have as good a relationship with Russia as you do. This may not help the Hungarian people's thinking and how we see how we get to peace. He talked about inflation for a long time. It is also clear from your thinking about inflation that it is always linked to sanctions. Mr. Prime Minister, I heard and saw a signal in 2021, even before the war, when it was said that Europe, even the developed states, was facing a serious threat of inflation, and this is coming towards us. This came to Hungary regardless of the war, it may have accelerated during the war, but it must be said that this is not related to sanctions, but that you have failed to take the steps that could effectively prevent inflation. It should be said as a fact that prices in Hungary broke loose before the adoption of sanctions packages. This is the reality, Prime Minister, and we must also add that what you are doing now is, let us say, a cloak after the rain. After all, we see that this inflation has basically overrun Hungary, marched through us, even swept the attics, and you want to take measures to protect Hungarian people from, for example, the rise in food prices in Europe. When inflation began to spread to Hungary, you were national consultants on sanctions. This consultation, you say, has resulted in 97 percent of people rejecting it. Mr. Prime Minister, Then tell me why you have voted ten out of ten sanctions packages so far, which is why you are often referred to as the king of sanctions behind your back. Mr. Prime Minister, The fact is that the parallel of sanctions and inflation exists in your universe, and Hungary has little explanation for the inflation of the European record. The thing is, and from what I understand, you seem to have said that you don't really want to fight with this right now. You have said what measures have been taken and, for example, the smallest businesses have been left out. A truly conservative political force, pursuing civil policy, should be one of the greatest treasures of the smallest family businesses, small shops, family businesses, etc. or individual entrepreneurs that you have not given any explanation of how you are protecting them. They don't want credit, they want actual help. They are not in an energy-intensive sector, but in areas where they can no longer pay their energy fees. In essence, the smallest businesses have been completely excluded from the public policy, and that is why we are all faced with and your representatives specifically, who are members of the parliament of Hungary in the countryside, to close shops, close shops, and make families and communities out of it impossible. It is also clear in relation to inflation, Prime Minister, and that is why you must take it seriously, that it is necessary to take meaningful steps and not just to wait for it to go away, that we have seen inflation and you have said it as a disease, and we know about the disease that you are flying and leaving on foot. It will not be easy to combat inflation, but if you do not want to do anything about it and do not want to protect households, do not want to protect the smallest businesses, then we will be in a difficult situation. And you don't really think that a communist-style price cap can protect anyone, do you? Mr. Prime Minister, The fact is that the communist-style price caps cause a shortage economy, and we can also see now that they inflate inflation into the price of other products and help to increase inflation. You have failed to talk about a very important aspect. Our attitude to the European Community has been one of the important issues of the past period and the last political season. He did not report how our agreement with the European Commission, the European Community, was progressing. What we see now, Prime Minister, is that you are more at war with Europe, you are more at war with Europe, when we need to see that Europe is our security. We propose, Prime Minister, that they turn to Europe, and that Jobbik, as a conservative community, will turn in the same way that St. Stephen has turned, and take into account that Europe has always been Hungary's security. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2023-02-27-44	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I salute my fellow Members. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr Bertalan Tóth, Head of the Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor. [[15.40]]
u2023-02-27-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, If I want to summarize briefly where Hungary is at the beginning of 2023, I can say that the drift of the Orbán government without a compass continues. The captain and the officers are in a state of insanity, unable to see behind the steering wheel, misappreciating the position and condition of the ship, and sending those who can help to a warmer climate. It's a recipe for a disaster that will be the victim of every passenger on the ship. At the end of February 2023, Hungary is among the world's five most financially vulnerable countries, not by me, but by the opposition, but by the President of the Hungarian National Bank, with EU record inflation, the economy near the recession, with a rising budget deficit and falling real wages. And Prime Minister mentioned the minimum wage increase, with this minimum wage increase we can be second in Europe in the amount of the minimum wage from behind, because the Romanian minimum wage already exceeds the Hungarian minimum wage. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: It's a shame!]] Education is in crisis; health is in crisis; livelihoods and social security are in crisis, and the rule of law and democracy are still in crisis. We have not heard of this, but unfortunately we can see that the Orbán government has not been able to bring the rule of law into a reassuring way, nor can it be seen to end. Therefore, EU funds for catching up, development and recovery funds do not come. In addition, their fidesz lying tricks have also been exposed, thus putting Erasmus + and Horizon funds in jeopardy. The Orbán government's anti-democratic, autocratic policy and actions contrary to the interests of our federal systems make Hungary permanently isolated in the European Union and among our allies, and I wouldn't be surprised if this would weaken cooperation in a growing number of fields. Ladies and gentlemen, Fidesz previously promised to protect families by keeping the rent cut, by refunding personal income tax, by stopping gas prices, and by stopping food prices. Now everyone knows the Fidesz lied, and the government lied. They lied because the rent reduction was abolished in its former form. The price of natural gas was increased by 100 per cent for consumers, the price of electricity was increased by 30 per cent, and I am not saying it either, and this is not said by the opposition, but it is shown by the KSH, which is how much more Hungarian consumers pay for gas and electricity. They lied because the personal income tax refund has already been recovered through inflation; VAT revenue has increased much higher in terms of high inflation than the amount of money the families received last spring. They lied because the gas stop was abolished, and in Hungary fuel became the most expensive among the countries in the region. And they lied because now they want to take out the food price stop on April 30th. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Take it out... László Szászfalvi: You cannot be justified...]] Ladies and gentlemen, Food inflation has been almost 50 percent in Hungary since November 2022; this is nearly three times the EU average of 18%. The outstanding increase was caused by the Orbán government's tax increases, so this 30 percent surplus can be referred to as inflation in Orbán. [[Intruder from the benches of the ruling parties.]] They raised and extended public health product taxes, increased taxes on turnover. Food prices therefore rise not because of price caps, but as a result of nearly 30% VAT and special taxes on turnover having equivalent effect. The fast inflation caused by the Fidesz government is a special tax on the poor. It should be said that food inflation due to price increases has an important role to play in the official price of eight basic foods. Price caps do not reduce or increase inflation. The food price stop, even to a small extent, helps families with average income and average income during retirement to make daily living. We in the MSZP therefore believe that there should be a radical change in tax policy, but the Fidesz government refuses to do so, so it is necessary to maintain the food price caps further. In fact, it is justified to include additional products in order to make a more difficult living. [[Intruder from the benches of the governing parties: There you go.]] Ladies and gentlemen, We Socialists and Social Democrats therefore represent that, as long as food is so expensive, price caps for food should be maintained and extended. The VAT on basic foods should be zero percent. Extra VAT on food, which is currently 4.1 percent for everything as an extra withdrawal, must be abolished. Following the tax reduction, state authorities should check price reductions, and our respectful proposal is for small shops and small producers to receive public compensation for losses caused by price caps [[Dr. István Nagy: Do they have...]] Just like they used to get the little wells at the gas price cap. We will also launch an online consultation on these issues, and today the elelmiszerarstop.hu site will be launched, which is where we can support this five-point package of proposals. We ask that as many people express their views as possible. We need a food stop next to the resisttop, not fidesz restrictions. Thank you very much. [[Applause for the MSZP, sporadic applause from the DK benches.]]
u2023-02-27-46	Thank you very much. Dear House, The next speaker from the Momentum Group is Mr Ferenc Gelencsér Group leader. There you go. You have the floor. [[Complaining from the benches of the governing parties: Let's hear the statesman!]]
u2023-02-27-47	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Speaker, Dear House, Prime Minister, please confirm with one nod that you have understood what you just said. [[Complaining from the benches of the governing parties: No way!]] Not only does the Hungarian Prime Minister have an answer, but he does not even have a question about the issues most occupied by Hungarians, such as the livelihood crisis, the continuous reduction of health care. Today's news is that the rights of the Hungarian Medical Chamber will be cut by you. I would like to know what you think of the powers of the Hungarian Executive Faculty of Courts, the President of which is currently under arrest in advance. He didn't talk about the humiliatingly low salary of teachers, the water-eating, environmental-destructive battery factory in Debrecen, the biggest corruption case in the last three decades. [[Intervention from the benches of opposition parties: The American Billions...]] on the Völner-Schadl-Rogán scandal, which is rich in your government [[Sic!]] And I'm sitting across from his main culprits, but he didn't talk about the future of Hungary in the same way. On the other hand, he talked about the gender issue, whatever that means. Prime Minister, I do not think there is another politician in this country who is so concerned about this issue. I suggest you apply to university, take a vocational course, deepen your knowledge of your interest [[Moray and intervention from the benches of the governing parties.]] as a private person, but I ask that you deal with matters that are truly decisive for the Hungarian nation as Prime Minister. He also spoke of excuses; we heard a sea of objections. The saying is that success has a hundred mothers, but failure is always an orphan. Prime Minister, you are unfortunately unable to get out of your responsibility on these issues, and it would not be appropriate. What kind of Prime Minister is he who, after 13 years of government in full power, still has a fallen predecessor, where are the enemy images and narratives sent in Moscow's telegram, and where is your former philanthropist supporter, György Soros? I don't know what you and your supporter György Soros have been fighting about earlier, thanks to which you could study abroad, but I would ask you to discuss this in private, not to burden Hungarian public life with a personal debate. [[Intruder from the benches of the ruling parties.]] And Ukraine, he talked a lot about the war, but he didn't really say anything. We can hear the same endlessly empty, infinitely propagandaist phrases from you. He condemns Russia, but he doesn't; Ukraine must be supported, but he doesn't; we have nothing to do with the conflict, but all the trouble is caused by the great, distant war. Prime Minister, let us tell you the truth: if this conflict is as important to you as you say, and the current Hungarian government is not really pro-Russian, it is not in the interests of the war criminal Putin, both domestic and European and Euroatlantic politics, then why weren't you with us last Friday at the Russian embassy? [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Because of the company! Defiance from the benches of the governing parties.]] Why didn't you remember us about the victims of the war, the hundreds of thousands who died senselessly, the lives that were dusted and the future that was going nowhere? Why didn't you pay tribute to the blood sacrifice of our fellow Hungarians? You told us earlier to pay attention to what you're doing, not what you're saying. Unfortunately, these are rather talkative gaps in action. How come you're the last leading politician in the region who hasn't gone to Kiev yet? [[15.50]] Prime Minister, what are you afraid of? Or maybe you're not a free man, or until Vladimir Putin allows you to move a straw. [[Intercoms, including Foreman Novak, account for the dollars. The president's ringing the bell.]] Prime Minister, there was a time once when you were the future. Where's the brave young man who sent the Russians home and invited the West into this country? ! Please honor me by answering one question: what responsibility do you think Vladimir Putin is responsible for the war in our neighborhood? [[Viktor Orbán: He started it.]] The issue of inflation has also been discussed. The Prime Minister says that there is war and penalty inflation. This is not true, on the one hand, because inflation started in the six months before the war, and on the other hand it is difficult to explain that Hungarian inflation is currently 25.7 percent, this is the highest level of inflation in the European Union; Slovak 12 percent, Romanian 16.3 percent, Polish 17.2 percent. In your view, these parties are responsible for the highest inflation in the country, which has not been experienced in two decades, in Europe, except for you, who have been leading this country for 13 years. Prime Minister! Thank God I didn't live in the age of the movie The Witness is about, but I don't want to, but we're about to end up back there. And I have one more question: what concrete government steps are you planning to take to break inflation? Because the plan is a good tool, but it is difficult to understand in economic policy, and many of the measures that you have told us are not what you are doing or have done, it is not what you are doing, it is what you are doing, it is what you are doing, it is what you are doing, it is what you are doing, it is what you are doing, it is what you are doing, it is what you are doing, it is what you are doing, it is what you are doing, it is what you are doing, it is what you are doing, it is what you are doing, it is what you are doing, it is what you are doing, it is what you are doing, it is what you are doing, it is not what you are doing, it is what you are trying to drive consumption, avoiding the recession; otherwise, it is right, but it will not, but it will not be inflation. I see I have two and a half minutes left, so I'd like to take advantage of that, since you didn't think of putting on the agenda a minute's silence in the wake of the one-year war, I'd like to spend the next 60 seconds with it. Thank you. [[The speaker will remain standing. István Szilárd Németh: Good! Dr. István Vitányi: This is the best part of the speech.]]
u2023-02-27-48	Thank you very much, Congressman, Mr Group Leader, we will continue. [[Ferenc Gelencsér is still in place.]] The next speaker was the group leader of the Group of Dialogue, Member Bence Tordai.
u2023-02-27-49	[[While he's standing up:]] I'm sorry, I have to take the floor. [[Interject from the ranks of Fidesz: Hold hands! Ferenc Gelencsér sits down. The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Orbán! I would first like to address you as a representative, and to draw your attention to the parliamentary debate that started today at 18:00, which was initiated by the Dialogue, and on which it would be good to discuss with us the issues of the installation of battery factories in Hungary, because you are obviously not very informed about this matter, as your previous speech shows. So let's wait until 10:00 p.m., I think you can get a lot of useful information, and then maybe you wouldn't be building orange domination, but you'd be building green Hungary. As far as his report is concerned, on the one hand, it was very boring, because we have all heard it, and on the other hand, at the beginning of a dangerous year, it will be very little, very weak. So one of the greatest dangers when we are already in danger is that we do not face reality. If you are also being cheated on, you will not be in a state to eliminate these dangers, so it would be good to see, at least, that Hungary is in a rather serious state, instead of their propaganda invented by popular debauchery. If someone is informed only from the so-called public media, or if someone is listening only to your speech in the Hungarian Parliament, then they would think that everything is in order, that the economy is rushing, that people are living well, and that the green turn has taken place. Now, I'd like to say a few specifics, which, in any case, has somehow been left out of your speech. Today, three countries are in recession in the European Union, so when economic performance is reduced: this would not be possible for Hungary after the Czech Republic, Finland and your speech. In fact, the technical recession means that economic performance is reduced in two consecutive quarters. Economic performance in Hungary decreased by 0.7 percent in the third quarter of 2022 and 0.4 percent in the fourth quarter of 2022. Hungary is in recession, and credit rating agencies evaluate Hungary accordingly. But that is not the biggest problem, because it is not in GDP that we can measure the success of a country, but in the quality of life of people. The problem is that there is a livelihood crisis, which is perhaps the best perceived by combining inflation, i.e. the depreciation of the forint, price increases and the increase in wages and pensions. In Hungary, general inflation exceeds 25 per cent, while in the EU average it is 9 per cent and food prices are almost 50 per cent, the same figure in the EU is 18 per cent. In addition to the 50 percent increase in food, the rate of pension increases is 15 percent, the majority of social benefits, and I think the increase in total is zero percent, the wage increase of the vast majority of public service workers is zero percent, and those who participate in some wonderful career model can get up to 10 percent. Fantastic, what results, Mr. Orbán, this really is worth a shot! But let's keep moving, because the economy won't stop here. He also said that we stopped the debt crisis, or that you stopped the fast-paced energy prices, and that every Hungarian family receives HUF 181 thousand each month. The problem is that we can divide and multiply, we have looked at what is in the budget, we have looked at how much less these bills are: less than 30 thousand forints, so it is not 181,000, but it is not exactly 30 thousand forints per family per month that support Hungarian families in the energy crisis. Unfortunately, this HUF 30,000 is important to many people in Hungary, let's not underestimate it, but let's say it would be less important if pensions were on average 30 thousand forints higher, if they didn't change the formula for the pension increase, or if Hungary didn't have the second lowest wage level. It was just now that Romania has left us not only in terms of average wages but also in terms of minimum wage, so now we can only compete with Bulgaria for the title of the worst-paying EU Member State; this is a problem we think. So if you look at dangers, you will face the dangers of a livelihood crisis and do not deny not to lie to success where there are very serious problems. There are equally serious problems in environmental matters. You say that green development has begun because you have heard the words of time, right, and you have immediately continued to develop Paks II, gas turbine power plants and gas imports. Now, I would like to say, Prime Minister, that this is not a green energy strategy. Firstly, the green energy strategy would be to reduce energy demand, in particular by increasing energy efficiency and, secondly, by supporting renewable energy sources. Neither nuclear or gas fossil energy is renewable, so we can record that. So it would be good to go for renewables, and I can see that there are already some progress in the area of solar energy, but, for example, despite the fact that the Union is forcing you to approve wind energy, I had a proposal in the committee today that would have codified this, put it into law, and your fellow Members voted against it. So I would like to ask the Prime Minister to inform his fellow factions that you are now in favour of wind power stations, and if we submit a proposal to legislate on this, then perhaps you would be kind enough to support it. And it would be good if they didn't run into it, although it's not a problem for me if they're in a debate with their own voters, but apparently they're narrowed down: on the one hand, the pressure from Putin and, on the other hand, the pressure from the EU on the rule of law, and, on the third, the pressure from their own propaganda for domestic use, on the other hand, that you can no longer carry out a sound foreign policy manoeuvre. So the fact that you go against 97 percent of your own voters is going to vote for the tenth penalty package in a row is more than fun. So obviously the Hungarians didn't say that they didn't ask for sanctions, but that the Kubatov list had about one. Half of them said they didn't want the sanctions, but you asked for the sanctions. So you represent 3 percent of the Fidesz camp, or who you represent because you don't represent us, you don't represent the opposition, and you don't represent your own voters. [[16.00]] So it would be nice to tidy up your heads a little bit, get off your puppy horse, say in Ukraine's case that Putin's the culprit would be good if you put that name on your mouth, and then we wouldn't feel any second-rate shame on the one-year anniversary of attacking Ukraine. So if there really is a big threat and they need to join together and they need the help of the opposition, we'd be happy to help them make a green turn so that they can stop building the orange rule. But it's gonna take him to open his ears and hear what we're saying. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-02-27-50	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The next speaker was Máté Kanász-Nagy from the LMP group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-02-27-51	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister, Dear House, I listened to the speeches and did a word-seeking game; I specifically wanted to hear the word which, by the way, the Prime Minister's speech did not say at all, which was the battery or battery plant. So it is quite surprising that the technooptimist representative of a liberal party first pronounced the word "accumulator," even though they were so proud that Chinese batteries are at the heart of your policy, and that they are doing everything they can to bring the battery factories to Hungary. It's mostly Far Eastern, right, right now we're talking about Chinese battery manufacturers, factories. If we think about it a little bit more, however, Prime Minister talked about battery factories, we just need a little translation to understand that we were talking about battery factories, because Prime Minister talked about reindustrialisation. By the way, there is a reindustrialisation process going on; it should be translated more like re-coating, because by attracting the Chinese battery companies to a huge extent, they attract a huge number of them, the recent news is that the Fidesz mayor of Kisterek, I quote, wants to give a battery factory to the edge of the settlement. So this reindustrialization is a recouping, they want to turn this country into a battery ring. He also talked about the launch of energy efficiency programmes. Indeed, there are energy efficiency programs, I read in the Hungarian Gazette last week that HUF 115 billion is intended for the modernisation and renovation of the Szeged-Szolnok power line, which serves to bring the electricity from Paks to Debrecen through Szolnok and Szeged. So this is really about Paks II. Investment is also necessary from Russian credit to supply electricity to these Chinese battery companies. So, from Russian credit, a Paks II will be built to sell the electricity produced here to the Chinese who export batteries abroad. This must be a huge business for the Russians, who provide this loan, a huge business for the Chinese, who profit from this production, but we do not see how Hungary will benefit from any of this. And, well, he also talked about the need to improve the capital position of businesses. They improve the situation of large capital, the capital situation of large companies, and they continuously improve it, and can be read that they provide additional 100- and 100-billion HUF infrastructure subsidies and direct subsidies to these battery factories. And there it is, isn't it, the level of record low corporate tax throughout the European Union? Well, they've made the corporate tax record low precisely so that these Chinese battery companies or other large companies, but they can typically attract foreign capital here and keep it here. I say that this policy is clearly a re-greasing policy, and they want to turn Hungary into a battery ring, because these 100 billion-dollar government subsidies are interestingly not going to develop the SME sector, they are not going to raise the wages of public employees, they are not going to raise the care fee, and the rest are going to support the Chinese battery manufacturers, just as a classic colony behaves when it attracts the colonial capital into its own country. But let's keep going. They also make this country a battery company by using a lot of water, energy, and land. How is it that, on one side, there is a national policy banging the breast that Hungary's interests must be protected, but when it comes to Hungary's natural values, its environmental values, its natural treasures, we give them, we practically sell them to the Chinese capital, they can use our water? By the way, in the middle of the climate crisis, when there is a drought, when the water level is constantly falling in Hajdú-Bihar county, how can Hungarian water supply be sold to the Chinese? At a time when we are in the middle of the energy crisis, we have less and less energy, and we also import 30% of Hungary's total energy consumption, how can we sell energy to these Chinese battery manufacturers, who will otherwise integrate the Chinese battery into German cars and export it to Western Europe? Energy sales and use should not be increased, but should be saved and reduced. Now, a Chinese battery factory is everything but cheap. And we can say the same about land. So when Hungarian agriculture is increasingly sinking into a crisis, when there is a shortage of food, when a significant part of our food is imported from abroad, how can these battery factories be built on Hungarian soil? And we're talking about Debrecen's neighborhood. It's a colonial policy. When I look at it from a labour market point of view, it is typical of a colony that people living in the colony earn less than those living next to the colony who live in the center countries. Well, how is it that, say, in a German battery factory, in a German car factory that does assembly activities, they make a lot more money than they do assembly activities at the Hungarian-China battery plant? So even from this point of view, we are lagging behind, which is also the result of colonial fate. By the way, by continuously supplying these battery factories with 10, 100 and 1000 billion forints, there will be no money left in the public sector for wage increases, no money left for social policy expenditure. This, too, is typical of colonial fate, that the social benefits and wages of the colonial population are much lower than those of the central country. And there it is, isn't it, the pollution of how dangerous the activity of these plants is. Obviously, you're reading the continuous reports about the Göd that the Göd battery plant is constantly being punished by the authorities. Of course, only a few million forints will be punished. This activity is extremely dangerous and risky, but that is exactly the point of colonial destiny, that big capital can come here to the colony, that there can be looting of natural and human resources, and that can pollute the environment. So again, please respond to this: why are you turning Hungary into a battery ring? How is that worth it to who besides the Chinese and German capital? I would also like to ask you a specific question. One: the introduction of the county lease and the country lease. I don't know exactly what happened here; it may be that Minister Lazarus's presentation was a little incomplete, or he just didn't take the good advice of Minister Lazarus, I don't know what happened within the government, but why did local transport, local transport, I'm talking about a BKV lease or any city lease. You missed that. I do not know what is happening in the Ministry of Csaba Lantos with regard to the authorisation of wind energy, that Minister has not yet sent the proposal or sent it, but Prime Minister has vetoed it. Where is the government's decree on the licensing of wind power? Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition.]]
u2023-02-27-52	Thank you very much, Deputy Group Leader. The next speaker was Mrs Dóra Dúró, Vice-President of the Parliament, from the group of our country. Here you go, Madam Vice President. You have the floor.
u2023-02-27-53	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister, There is often a contradiction between your words and your actions, and allow me to highlight these issues in relation to the questions you have spoken of. On the one hand, he spoke correctly, and I agree with that, that the military conflict is deepening in Ukraine, and that is perhaps the greatest threat in the short term. The primary reasons for this are obviously the arms shipments and other assistance Ukraine receives from Western Europe under strong pressure from the United States. However, you are presenting to this House a proposal to vote in favour of the accession of Sweden and Finland to NATO. Do you not feel, Prime Minister, that this is also deepening the conflict, another step in escalation, and would it not be better for Hungary to vote 'no' to this intention of accession? The faction of the Hungarian Movement will definitely do so. [[16.10]] Unfortunately, we will also have to live with the war in the coming years, as, according to the IMF forecast, Russian economic growth in 2024 will prevent, for example, the economic growth of Europe's largest economy, Germany, but this is how it will be against French and Italian in 2024, and even more and more Western analysts point out that Russia will be able to finance this war for years. Thus, the Hungarian government must, in both economic policy and other senses, settle down that this war can determine our years to come. [[Viktor Orbán: Well, that's true.]] With regard to inflation and other economic policy implications, you blame only war and sanctions. Kind of reminds me of the bad football player, Prime Minister, your argument, who says that's why he lost the game. [[Defiance, interruptions from the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] Because the grass or humidity was like that, the conditions were bad, and he didn't play bad football, while if he reports any success, Prime Minister, he attaches it to the government's economic policy. I believe that this is a Pharisee attitude, especially in relation to inflation, because inflation started to rise before the war, even before the imposition of sanctions, and Hungarian inflation is particularly high compared to other countries in relation to food prices. Thus, according to the Hungarian Movement, the primary aim should be to support the domestic food industry in order to break down food inflation, which would otherwise contribute to our self-determination in the long term, and would also strengthen it, as opposed to the government's economic policy of installing battery factories, as this increases our exposure, strengthens the money pump of the multinationals, and which has not been mentioned here yet, also results in the introduction of a significant number of guest workers to Hungary, which goes against the policy that you have in relation to immigration, at least in words, proclaims. He said, Mr Prime Minister, I quote literally that the whole country can be proud of the expansion of family policy and family support in Hungary. That is simply not true, Prime Minister. A new family support has been introduced, three have been abolished, such as car shopping for large families. So family support, for the first time since 2010, has narrowed down in Hungary. There are fewer forms of family support, and what is much more serious is that all family support has lost its real value because of inflation on 1 January this year. All of them, not one or two, but all of them. In fact, the tax relief introduced in 2012 for large families, i.e. families with three children, is today, in real terms, worth one third of what it was then worth. This is the 99 thousand forints, the value of which should now be around 300 thousand forints if it could have kept the same real value. But the biggest problem, Prime Minister, is not that family subsidies are falling, but that there is failure, which is also the first time in Hungary since 2011 that the total fertility rate has decreased; this is the biggest problem. In this regard, Prime Minister, I would ask you that in 2018 you set out in the Prime Minister's inaugural speech to ensure that by 2030 Hungary will have the 2.1 fertility rate, that you have renounced it? Have you given up on this purpose? I would like you not to give up on this, but, at the same time, if we are to achieve this, further family support is needed to increase it. With regard to pensioners, you pointed out that the 13th month pension had been returned, and that family support would also need a similar one. Finally, I would also like to comment on the subject of child protection, because the Momentum may not be interested in this, but this is a real problem in Hungary. Not only does the law need to be tightened up, but the system itself should work better, because this particular man, who has now, in the last few days and weeks, had the attention of the public, specifically his case five years ago, was reported by the Sixty-four Várgye Youth Movement to the school where he taught at that time by a VIII. It was a district school, and so was KLIK. The documents, photos, and no response to this have been provided, Prime Minister. This is outrageous! And not only is there such problems in education, but unfortunately the LGBTQ lobby has dug its way into the world of education, prosecution, police, media and advertising. The Child Protection Act will work more effectively if sanctions are imposed on it, but the legislator has failed to do so in the previous amendment. I ask you not to do this now, because if there are no sanctions, then everything will go on as it has been. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of our country's movement.]]
u2023-02-27-54	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I respectfully ask my fellow Members that the factions which have not yet spoken wish to speak. [[For signal:]] I now give the floor to Mr István Simicskó, Head of the Group of the KDNP. Here you go.
u2023-02-27-55	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, thank you very much, Prime Minister, for your presentation. It touched on current and important issues, since the issue of war and peace is more exciting to everyone in Europe today than anything else, and everyone is more excited about the issue of failed sanctions in Brussels and the energy crisis than any other issue, because peace and security are a fundamental value for all of us, a condition and a pledge of our prosperity. The position of the Hungarian Government and the Prime Minister is clear and clear, and we are on the side of peace, and that is what we want to do in the future. In this, we support the government to a great extent to stand up for peace. Ladies and gentlemen, The Prime Minister also spoke about the national consultation. A real Hungarian peculiarity, a real Hungaricum, which is done very well by the Hungarian government here in Hungary, very wisely, asks people about important national issues and international issues that affect Hungary. The success of these is clear and exemplary. In such a difficult situation, when we live in the age of crises, threats, threats, war is raging in the neighbourhood with all the harmful security effects of this, the Hungarian government recognises the real problems and is doing everything to remedy these problems and problems: protecting jobs, increasing exports, import records, reducing budget deficits, reducing debt, supporting families, on the one hand, protecting the reduction of the rent in difficult circumstances, introducing the 13th month pension, raising pensions and HUF 335 billion in family support. This is also a huge record, with 4.3 percent of GDP being used by the government to support families, which is outstanding and exemplary throughout Europe. We are pleased that Christian Democratic values are constantly being kept in mind by the government, and in fact and in the reality of the nation's strategic goals, it also shows in the budgets, because, for example, following the introduction of the 'free' of young people under the age of 25, which I think has been a very serious success, now women under the age of 30 who are having children can also benefit from tax exemptions. These are very serious results, as families are Hungary's future, and our children are the key to this. Allow me to say a few words about the war, too, beyond what I said at the beginning, that the Hungarian government is very rightly and wisely on the side of peace. We, too, see that it is not the tanks, but the negotiations and the truce that bring peace. The immeasurable transport of weapons to Ukraine shows a prolonged war. If one wonders how this war can end, it is clear that if this war escalates and does not give it to God, to become a nuclear war and to a NATO-Russian conflict directly, then this war cannot be a winner, because Russia has the largest nuclear arsenal. [[16.20]] We can also see that important military, military, military aspects and lessons can be learned from this war, because it is clear that modern military technology, i.e. drones, and the use of combat robots, are here today. A few years ago, it was only visible and imaginable in such science fictional films. He's here today. We can see on both sides that the use of drones causes very serious damage to both countries' armies, especially in heavy equipment. The Bayraktar TB2 drones used on the Ukrainian side, equipped with four precision missiles, can destroy up to four tanks at once, and drones are much cheaper in price-value ratio than, say, a Leopard 2A4. It is certain that the development of the Hungarian Defence Forces is progressing at a very good pace. For my part, as former Minister of Defence, I am pleased that the development of the force has been boosted. It is important that we also develop the military industry, and Hungary has a truly important capacity for defence; the strengthening of military capabilities is essential. This could be a kind of deterrent if any misconceptionist might want to attack Hungary in a military sense. Ladies and gentlemen, The culture of warfare clearly proves that there are three classic warfare cultures. One is material-centric, the other is motion-centric, and the other is guerrilla-type warfare. The Russian army has always been characterized by material-centric warfare, since it has over 17 million square kilometers of space, enormous energies, and if not infinitely, but for a very long time, it is capable of providing its forces with the right tools and weapons arsenal for a very long time. Historical examples also show this. The classic display of motion-centric warfare, let's say, German-Prussian warfare, because they don't have those financial reserves. But it's certain that with quick maneuvers, you can see the Blitzkrieg and the war experience show that they were able to be successful in many wars for a while. But prolonged wars always favor the greats, those who have a vast area and a huge number of souls, human resources, economic power. The United States Army has always been strong in materialistic warfare. The guerrilla type of warfare and clearly the warfare of small countries, the raid, the sudden, to say the war culture of curiosity attacks and strikes. So this shows that this war has been going on for over a year. Russia has not been on its knees with sanctions, sanctions in Brussels, and it is clear that if it is up to Russia, this war will not end as quickly as it was planned, but they can stand it, even if the majority of Western countries support the Ukrainian army for a long time. We know we're living in the fourth generation of warfare, don't we? The psychological element is important in this regard, since the influence of societies, especially in a multi-party democracy, is of great importance as to what the perception of war will be and how long the governments can sustain it. So psychological impact is crucial. I believe that, in addition to strengthening the government's commitment to peace, which we can add to this, we Christian democrats, are none other than the apostle Paul's letter to the Ephesians, in which he wishes us to put on the full armor of God, because it is also important to strengthen faith, a strong army can feed on his faith, his spirituality. These six weapons are the belt of righteousness, the shield of faith, the armor of justification, the helmet of salvation, the sword of the soul, and the ability of peace. I wish the government and everyone to have the power of peace and the wisdom of Salamon that is needed for peace. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-02-27-56	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The next speaker from the DK Group is Mr Ferenc Gyurcsány Group leader. Here you go. [[Moore from the pro-government benches. Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2023-02-27-57	Sillyness remains nonsense even if it is to be bred by ambition [[Applause and applause from the pro-government benches.]] if the void is not filled with content by the power. [[László Szászfalvi: Cicero Highlands!]] We need peace. Of course we need peace. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] The question is whether the killer's peace or the victim's peace. You actually support the peace of the killer. What you've taken, the ones you've killed, you don't need to say. You really want Ukraine to surrender. It's a rag thought, it's a rag attitude. You are actually supporting peace in Trianon at the expense of Ukraine. You're eye-wielding people! We want peace, too. [[An intervention from the ranks of Fidesz: Eyeblower!]] The peace of order, of legality, of honor, of honor, of sacrifice; quite simply, of Russia going home. A young Hungarian said something similar in 1989. We are saying this right now: Russia should go home, it has no business being in Ukraine or anywhere else. Our speaker in 1989, if he was not a poor courseman then and since then, or still today, he owes us a sentence: Hungary is not for sale, Ukraine is not for sale. The question is overwhelming: why is the Hungarian Prime Minister doing this? Why are you turning against everything and everyone and taking sides with the Russian President? In addition, we in Europe are the most expensive people to buy gas from Russia. What's going on? Meanwhile, basically without any preparation, we buy a new Russian nuclear power plant. What's going on? In addition, we take in a Russian spy bank, and we are now the only owners of the European Union. What's going on? How can this happen? Is it possible that the Hungarian Prime Minister is an agent of Russia? What else would explain that Russia is more important to him than his own country? [[Intercoms from Fidesz: Ooh! Ouch!]] If the Prime Minister is not independent, then neither is the country. If the country is not independent, then it has no control over its own destiny, then it will be a slave country and a slave nation. [[Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi: That's you, Feri!]] It will be if you stay. Such a government and such a Prime Minister must fail. We're gonna do it! [[Defiance and interrogation in the pro-government benches: You've failed! Big enough. Laszlo Szászfalvi: The shadow government will come! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] We in the Democratic Coalition, in the shadow government of Klára Dobrev, dream of another country [[Delight and applause in the pro-government benches.]] And we're doing it for another country. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] We're far from patriotic boobs. We're far from fighting adversaries. Our country and its citizens are close to us, and we understand that it is the job of a government to take care of the country and look after the people. As we have heard, the Prime Minister does not really have anything to say about the pain of an ever-strengthening life, the legitimate bitterness of the world of education, the rebellion, the collapsing health care, the internal and external loneliness of Hungary. You must go and come to a new patriotic European government, the government of hope, integrity and partnership. [[Moore and applause from the pro-government benches. Máté Kocsis: Then you never want to govern!]] We're not your opposition. We're your opponents, because we're patriots, and the patriots are against you, and they're coming with us. If you're a patriot, you're with us. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-02-27-58	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mr Máté Kocsis, Head of the Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2023-02-27-59	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, The most important thing, perhaps, is why we came here today, yet there is a situation around us that we need to relate to. Thank you, Prime Minister, for the part of your speech in which you support the two party groups. [[16.30]] After all, we are planning to present to Parliament a declaration of pro-peace that I think it would be important to be supported as widely as possible. The war between Russia and Ukraine has been going on for a year, and there is no indication that this will end soon, but the consequences are already dramatic: hundreds of thousands of people and one of the biggest humanitarian crises in recent years. Meanwhile, Europe is living in the days of drifting into war and the European Parliament is demanding further arms shipments. It is no secret in this building that both Hungary, the Hungarian government and the Hungarian governing parties and the Hungarian parliament are under pressure. This pressure is a political type of pressure, so we recommend that we give it a political type of response. That is why Parliament must adopt a decision setting out its clear position on what it thinks. It is also sad that some Member States have already committed themselves to arms shipments, and unfortunately these steps have brought a possible world war within sight. And we can easily see that avoiding this is in the common interest of all of us. It is also sad that the powerful powers to the west of us and do not underestimate the ability of the United States or the European Union to assert their interests, are not working to establish peace between the parties, but are working towards more ammunition between the parties. And at the end of the multiple ammo, there are people's lives, orphans, and widows, and I think that the only right attitude is to enforce peace as soon as possible. In this spirit, we also wish to support the government's policy so far, to present a proposal for a resolution to the Parliament, and I ask you to at least do it with good intentions. And here I would like to note that I considered Prime Minister's speech to be a little optimistic or ambitious, because we have repeatedly tried to ask our left-wing opposition to join forces with us in this matter. At first, we tried to meet a left drifting to the national side in the context of the migrant crisis, but we failed. Then, under Covid, we tried to find a left, Prime Minister, that would work together with the ruling parties, and we didn't find any. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: We voted for the statement!]] ; and in the context of the war, we were also hoping to have a left that represents national interests. The truth I could address to Prime Minister once again, but it may be interesting in a broader sense, the truth is that our left-wing country is always a different country, and we have our own country, it's always a different country, it's always a different country, it's always a different society, it's always a different society, and we love our own. You love other people's, and we love our own country. [[Gergely Arató: Like István Széchenyi!]] The fact is that this is the opposite that makes our everyday life irreconciliable, and that is what is difficult to form so-called cooperation or a common political will. I would also like to add that the many speeches here might be worth responding to all of them, but [[Breathing:]] Ferenc Gyurcsány, President of the Democratic Coalition, said the last speech on the one hand and the most dramatic on the other. You're the one who's talking, I understand, eye-wielding. Dear Lord. [[A statement from the benches of DK: Congressman!]] The fact is that in 2008 Russia carried out military aggression against Georgia. You were the Prime Minister of Hungary. After the military aggression in 2008, he lay low like that one in the grass. In fact, so much so that he even traveled out! His Highness [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] private visit to Moscow to a military aggressor, lunch at a Ukrainian restaurant. [[Noise. Bence of Turdai: You fool each other!]] In fact, my dear former Prime Minister, current Head of the Group, and if it is up to us, I would like to say to you that the fact that you have read the words of decency and honour was not at first clear in your speech. But after you do all this, you should have at least enough self-esteem and self-esteem to ask one of your fellow Members to give these kinds of speeches. We've gotten used to everything from you, facial thickness, regardless of everything, but I didn't expect you to be the prime minister at a time of Russian military aggression, and then you went punching in Moscow. [[Noise in opposition benches.]] In the meantime, the Hungarian Oil Company has played it into the hands of the Russians, at least listen to me! [[Grumbles and interrogations in the pro-government benches: That's right! Shame!]] Don't talk to us about eyeballs, don't talk about dishonesty. And that his political allies are political Stockholm syndromes, that sooner or later, [[Fidesz benches.]] [[Fidesz benches.]] They fall in love with their captors and cross the line, and I congratulate you on that. Congratulations on that. The DK is expanding nicely. Everyone will find their place there! You're tired of the school system, gentlemen. Notice that. (Development in the benches of Fidesz. ) They're coming in line. Socialists do not have much to do; I wanted to respond to you, but I just can't think of anything. [[Fidesz benches. Olga Kálmán: Matthew, this is very weak!]] The only thing they have to do is sign the transit forms. Go where you belong. And the fact that you are creating a political alliance with the fallen Prime Minister, which represents a completely corrupt policy, your soul is on it, but don't be surprised if the Hungarian people will send you to hell again and again in the elections! [[Kálmán Olga: This is very weak.]] However, I would like to note one thing for the Members of the Momentum. We don't know how they're gonna understand, but I'd like to keep that in mind. [[Fidesz benches.]] [[Fidesz benches.]] And I don't mean it as a joke. I don't know how it's worth arguing with people who bathe the electric scooter in the bathtub like a baby. (Development in the benches of Fidesz. ) I don't know if it's worth it. They understand that this is a serious professional issue! The Hungarian Government, including the Hungarian Parliament, must have serious expectations on this matter. [[Bence of Turdai: I need them!]] Clear rules must be followed, which will be enforced both in Germany and in the European Union. Don't be mad at me, you won't be able to hold this debate. What I would like to say to Mr Tordai's loud speech is: how many dollars is such a speech, Congressman? [[A round of applause and applause in the benches of Fidesz.]] Shouldn't you have said something about antifa? Violent left-wing scramblers beat Hungarian citizens on the streets of Budapest. This belongs to your moonyard. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In closing, Mr. President, excuse me, allow me a half sentence. Prime Minister, I understand the intention of joining forces. You can be sure: this political side will always represent Hungarian interests [[Gergely Harvesto: We'll see! An uproar in the opposition's benches.]] that political side is something else. Thank you very much. [[A big round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-02-27-60	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán in return. Here you go, Prime Minister. You have the floor.
u2023-02-27-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm struggling with the disturbance of abundance right now. Perhaps we should take the most important step forward, since almost all the faction leaders spoke about Ukraine. I have long wondered why we cannot grind in a mill in this Ukrainian case, even though it is so obvious to us that it is in Hungary's interest and why we must stand there. Therefore, it would be an easy prey, but I'd rather let go of my response to the thoughts of the leader of the Jobbik faction. But didn't your party president leave during the Donyeck referendum? Ring any bells? There was a referendum in Donetsk. [[Intercoms.]] Donfus, Donfus. Everyone was careful, kept their distance, thinking what they thought. He was one man, one serious, internationally listed politician who went there. Isn't he the man who's your president now? After all this, you really want to attack us on the Ukrainian-Russian war? Are you sure this is appropriate? Lucky thing? But let's be serious about this. And now that I've heard you live today, I think it's become clear to me why we don't grind in a mill, and I'm afraid we've also understood why we won't. You talk about Ukraine by imagining your place. [[16.40]] You talk about Ukraine, making a parallel with Hungary as if you were talking about Hungary. The withdrawal of the Russians was mentioned on the same page as the current war, but that was us Hungarians, that was not us. Isn't the problem that you don't distinguish between countries? Isn't this about you taking Ukraine to the same level as Hungary? I think that's the problem. They cannot think of Ukraine as Hungary, because Ukraine is Hungary. We cannot think of Ukrainians as Hungarians. [[Ferenc Gyurcsány is leaving. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] That's very good. 'Cause that's the whole point. We respect the Ukrainians, we help the Ukrainians, we give them everything we can; there's one thing we can't do to put them above us. The interests of Ukraine can never exceed the interests of Hungary and can never prevent the interests of the Hungarian people. [[Gergely Arató: Only the interests of Russia.]] We're not gonna ruin ourselves for anyone's sake. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] I understand all the moral considerations, I understand everything, they're important, we have to deal with it, let's not cross this Rubicon, let's never put it above us and before us. Hungary is the first. This is the only right approach in international politics. Anyone not on this basis is not on a national basis, who is not on that basis, is on an internationalist basis. Then you're making the mistake that I'm hearing from people on the left with no bad intentions who talk about Ukraine and Ukraine's interests as if they were us. We feel sorry for them, we feel solidarity, we feel for them as long as we can, we go and help them, but only until then, because from there, another world begins. So I ask you that when we talk about the Ukrainian-Russian war, we try on Hungarian glasses and in Hungarian national interest [[Intercom from the opposition: Transcarpathia!]] to approach this thing, which is part of Transcarpathia, but that is not what I want to talk about, although it is a very important question. I am choosing a different approach because it is not entirely hopeless to find some elements, Mr Group leader, on which we can even agree. Because I understand that there are two things in which there is agreement between the left and the national side of Hungary. One of them, I understand, is that we don't want to live in the shadow of a Russian threat. So we want a European security system in which Russia is not a threat to Hungary, if I understand correctly, we agree. As I understand it, we also agree that we do not want a common Russian-Hungarian border. So we also agree that there must be something, this is what we call a sovereign Ukraine between Russia and Hungary, which is wide enough and deep enough to provide security for Hungary. If we agree on these two things, then we have already agreed on important things. How do we get to this goal? You think it's war, we think it's a truce. You think it's a defeated Russia, we think it's a European security system. This can all be discussed in a meaningful way if a national agreement is reached in the first two items in Hungary: Russia should not threaten the safety of Hungary, and there should always be a sufficiently deep and wide area between Russia and Hungary that gives Hungary security. If we agree on that, the rest might be easier. Therefore, I am still talking to the Head of the Group about Jobbik, the question of what the path to peace is, it sounds like a ceasefire. The first step is the ceasefire. Anyone who thinks that a peace can be achieved by making a peace proposal for everyone's interests on the table in advance, and if that is the case, then the war will stop, it will be wrong. This is not the nature of things, the nature of things is that there is a ceasefire. This is what we want: a ceasefire! As long as there's a ceasefire, peace talks can be started, if we're lucky, peace talks will be a solution, if we're unlucky, the fights will return. But the point is, the first step, and this is my answer to your suggestion: peace is the way through the ceasefire. Several people talked about inflation, and the faction leader also said that the government's decisions do not help small and medium-sized enterprises. You are mistaken, I have tried to present these measures here, I see that I have failed, so I will tell you now that six out of the ten economic measures are directly helping small and medium-sized enterprises. We give HUF 220 billion to support energy intensive small and medium-sized enterprises. In the Széchenyi Card Program, we give HUF 290 billion to small enterprises for a preferential loan scheme, they receive a 5 percent loan, while the central bank base rate is somewhere at the height of 13 and 18 percent. We extended the interest rate stop to small and medium-sized enterprises, which would have affected 60,000 companies, which would have been destroyed without it, and this would make it easier to repay a loan of HUF 2000 billion. There is a moratorium on loan repayment in agriculture, with HUF 285 billion of loans suspended for 7500 agricultural enterprises for 16 months. The payment of the development contribution to small and medium-sized enterprises in the world of tourism enterprises has been suspended and support for work affects small and medium-sized enterprises as much as the large ones. So after I've said these things, you stand up and say that the government is doing nothing for small and medium-sized enterprises, unfortunately, you are making our conversation frivolous. I feel that we are not responsible for this. You have once again encouraged us to become more European and to behave better in negotiations. I understand that, but wasn't it your party that used to burn an EU flag when it came to an easy seance? [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I just think I do, gentlemen. Gentlemen, Honourable Jobbik! Gentlemen. Dear Jobbik, but still, do you think that the only proper and effective order of political debate is when the party that burns the EU flag discredits the government that it does not negotiate in a committed European way? Are you sure? [[Intercom from the opposition: Wash your hands!]] My fellow Member, Bertalan Tóth, is also unhappy with the government. Let me answer for just one sentence. The president said we were drifting without a compass. Well, all I can say is the MSZ. [[Defiance and applause in the ranks of the governing parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] We have heard the President of the Momentum explain the context of inflation. So, that's what happens when you write your answer in advance. And then, unfortunately, what we have to say is not in line with what the first speaker said myself. I repeat, therefore, that inflation will be reduced to one digit by the end of the year. In Hungary, inflation is higher because Hungary is a country with a high industrialisation rate, we are doing a lot of industrial development, we are in the first three in the European Union in the investment competition, and we will also make such investments. This all raises energy needs while we don't have our own energy. And when energy prices go up in the world, there is always the highest inflation in countries where industrial development is high, industrial capacity is high, and it does not have its own energy, but it has to import it, and there is nothing to be surprised about. This is necessarily the result of the structure of Hungarian industry and the economic policy direction chosen by us. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] The question is what can be done to ensure that inflation is not abandoned, but reduced. This is what I have put forward in my speech a package of 20 points in economic policy, and believe me, this will bring its results. Now we can talk about what will happen in the coming months, but we will get to the end of the year, and then let us see that at the end of 2023 it will be as we hope as a result of our decisions, and inflation will be one-digit, or as you say, and we will not be able to reduce Hungarian inflation. If you'll excuse us, we wouldn't be rooting for you. I must briefly comment on my fellow Member, Bence of Tordai, because there, I do not claim that out of spite [[Alpár Gyopáros: Yes, out of spite...]] But there are factual errors, and it would not be right for them to be fixed. [[16.50]] First of all, it's a matter of recession. Economic growth in Hungary was 4.6 percent in 2022. A 4.6 percent increase is not called a recession, but an increase. This is particularly true if, at the same time, economic growth in the European Union was 3.6 percent in 2022 and 4.6 percent in the European Union. Is the Hungarian economy now in recession? I understand that such technical numbers can be found in the quarterly breakdowns, but the Hungarian government's aim is to make economic growth more difficult in 2023 than in 2022 and more dangerous in Hungary. The economic policy that we are pursuing is the budget that we have presented here and which sets out the direction of our work, which we believe will result in an increase of at least 1.5 percent in 2023, and if there is an increase, there will be no recession, my honourable fellow Member. What is green energy? Today, the generally accepted European approach is: priority is given to green renewable energy sources. However, the EU also accepted that unfortunately there would not be enough of this, so it dismissed nuclear energy from its previous banning, exclusion and negative judgment and declared it neutral; it was neither positive nor negative, so it does not conflict with green policy. The Union then said that, since we cannot spare hydrocarbon resources, it can provisionally accept, prohibit or punish Member States for building hydrocarbon-based energy capacities. Horribile dictu only doesn't affect us, he also said that black coal is acceptable temporarily. Now I would also like to stress to you again that, when all energy or much of the energy is green, we cannot turn it off, even when we can't completely turn off fossil energy sources, because weather-dependent energy sources bring uncertainty into the system. And as long as energy is not transported by telepathy, but by cord, the tension there must be constant, even if the wind is not blowing and the sun is not shining, and that tension must be maintained. Therefore, there must always be a spare capacity behind green energy that, in case of adverse weather, produces the energy that can be transported on the lines. Therefore, green energy is the most expensive energy in a certain approach, because where we build up a unit of green energy, we need to build at least a reserve of at least that much for lasting tension. They have to be created. So this green matter is a little more complicated than the way you would think listening to my fellow Member from Turda. I would like to have a longer discussion with my fellow Member Matthew Kanász-Nagy, because what you said is, I believe, a net anti-investment. I think this is a serious issue, and it is particularly important for Hungary, because because of communism, we started here with an economy with a lack of capital in 1990. The serious question is how to get from a fully anti-capital economy to an acceptable level of competitiveness and a level of prosperity that can only be created in a competitive world economy that is already on the capital line. It's a serious question of how to get here. And our answer is because we have been dealing with this issue for tens of years now is that we need to strengthen our own national capital and we need foreign capital investment. Without foreign investments, we cannot raise the Hungarian standard of living and the performance of the Hungarian economy where we all want it to be. If we had 40-50-70 or 80 million people like the Germans, foreign capital investments and even exports could be considered secondary. But if this is not so, but if there is a 10 million-dollar country with a capital shortage, then how will this turn into one of the best economies in the world? It will only be if we properly combine our own capital power with foreign investments. The question, therefore, is where we are directing foreign investment, into what industries we are moving it to and to which part of the country geographically. So the approach that considers all of these to be negative and speaks of all foreign investments as not needed by Hungary is not based on Hungarian realities, and on this basis it is very difficult to speak seriously. Well, imagine just for a moment I look over there and there I see a Győr representative without a foreign investment in Győr. Congratulations. Or imagine Kecskemét. I'm looking at the representatives of Bács-Kiskun County. Imagine Bács-Kiskun County without any foreign investment. Or maybe talk to the Esztergoms. Without Suzuki, what would life look like there? And so on and so on and so on and so forth. Are you sure you can take what you're saying seriously? I have doubts. But I did not want to say that, although we clearly disagree on this issue, it is not possible to speak rationally. Maybe you should. I would like to add it quietly, because we are living in difficult times, and this is not the right attitude, but we hardly talk about the fact that, according to international competitiveness research institutes, Hungary is among the ten best countries in the world in terms of the complexity and complexity of a given economic system. Because we would be threatened by the threat of foreign investment policy that we are only travelling to one or two industries and that the internal balance of the Hungarian economy is completely out of balance. There are dominant industries now, but the rest doesn't go away, it doesn't go away. So, given the complexity of the economy, we are among the ten first countries in the world. That is why there is a minister responsible for innovation, so that the development of universities should be addressed so that the complexity that provides security to the Hungarian economy against storm strikes in the world economy can remain. Finally, our country. Several important questions have been raised here. The question of NATO accession is right here. As I understand it, our country's plan is not to support this. Please consider this. In fact, I would ask you to reconsider your position. We have two reasons for this. The first is that it is now, and I think that it will remain so for several decades, that without NATO, Hungary's military security cannot be guaranteed. NATO will not trigger its own self-defense capability, because anyone without self-defense will not be protected by NATO. Because in a war, help that our soldiers don't risk their lives on, and soldiers in other countries, we won't get. It is therefore a mistake to bring Ukraine to the same level as Hungary. Everyone primarily cares about their own soldiers. So if we have the ability and the will to defend ourselves, NATO will be with us, and then our security can be guaranteed. So I think NATO is a national strategic issue for Hungary. Believe me, there are few people sitting on NATO summits with more critical ears than I am, and I do not say that I am enthusiastic about everything that happens there, what they say there, and I think some of the decisions are of concern, but this should not lead us to the border or beyond the border that represents Hungary's NATO membership. Secondly, the question of Ukraine's NATO membership will come up, which will be a serious topic, a serious and serious issue. It is not so far away, as the issue of EU membership is already on the table in the form of candidate status. Regardless of what the current legal situation with regard to NATO membership is, that it is never possible to take on a war country, even though it is also a rule made by humans, we will see, but we will certainly have to consider another enlargement of NATO to the east ten thousand times. We would not be in such a vulnerable position that a NATO border conflict at the eastern ends would drag Hungary into a war because there is a common defence policy. So this question about Ukraine will come up. But I do not think that this question is relevant in relation to Sweden and Finland. I therefore believe that the inclusion of Finland and Sweden does not pose a safety risk for Hungary. There's something to talk to them about. They will surely have instructive ways for our representatives when they go to speak with them in the framework of the parliamentary delegation, but I do not think that the inclusion of these two countries will increase Hungary's security risk. [[17.00]] And then finally, a matter in which I agree with the Congresswoman is a matter for family support. I do not agree with you to describe as shrinking the changes that have occurred, I would prefer to call it keeping at a level, but please understand that 2023 is not the year of expanding social care, it is not the year of broadening the family support system, because there is a war, because inflation is happening, because energy prices are skyrocketing, and we also have to fight to grow instead of recession, not to talk about where there is a 4-5-6 percent increase, and where it is possible to think about how to divide the extra income generated between debt reduction, wage increases, family support, pension increase or other goals. It's not gonna be like this in the 23rd year. Therefore, while I agree with the assessment of the situation, I do not agree with the fact that you are making a criticism of it against the government for the economic policy year 23; I do not think that is fair. There's no more in it this year. I think it is a great feat that we have been able to make at least one family policy measure expand our family policy system. And I also agree that once the Hungarian economy gets more air, there should be a further expansion of family policy in the first place, and I also agree with what you said about putting the value of the previously created family policy support elements first, because they were a breakthrough at the time, and in the meantime, especially because of high inflation, the value of these values has become worn out, so they need to be renewed and energy added to achieve the effect that we would have liked. Ladies and Gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your attention; I thank you very much for your efforts, even critically, to the Prime Minister's information. I would like to ask you to understand that the usual expectations are brought into line with reality in the social, economic and economic field, with regard to government and economic policy. This four-year cycle, in which we are now, will consist of two different periods of time, there was the, 22nd and 23rd years, when we have to solve very difficult tasks, and we hope that there will be an easier, 24th and 25th years, when we do not fall into recession in 23rd and have an increase of at least one-and-a-half percent, then the Minister of Finance can set out a much bigger economic expansion, resource increase, and then again talk about the sharing of resources between the big goals. The year 23 is not going to be like this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-27-62	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would now like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present further speeches that are not on the agenda. [[Noise.]] Please listen carefully. Here you go, notary.
u2023-02-27-63	Thank you. Dear Parliament, János Bencze, Jobbik; László Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Ferenc Varga, independent; Balázs Barkóczi, DK; Andrea Hegedüs, DK; Zoltán Varga, DK; Péter Jakab, independent; Dániel Kárpát, Jobbik; Ander Balázs, Jobbik. Bernadett Bakos, LMP; Tamás Mellár, Dialogue; László Toroczkai, Mi Hazank; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Imre Komjáthi, MSZP; Gy. Erzsébet Németh, DK; István Hollik, KDNP; Barna Pál Zsigmond, Fidesz. János Bencze, Jobbik; Zoltán Sas, Jobbik; Dóra Dúró, Mi Hazank. On Wednesday, the speaker came to the agenda of President Novák, Mi Hazank; Z. Dániel Karpát, Jobbik; Gergely Arató, DK.
u2023-02-27-64	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear House, Katalin Novák, President of the Republic, sent the Parliament transcripts on the termination of the term of State Secretary and the appointment of a new State Secretary. I now invite Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs to take turns in the transcripts of the President of the Republic. Here you go, notaries.
u2023-02-27-65	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, Article 9 (four) (j) of the Fundamental Law and CXXV of 2018 on Government Administration. Law 202. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act on the List of Ministrys of Hungary, Section II. Law No. 1 § (c), (d) and (e) and Article 5 Article 182/202 on the tasks and responsibilities of the members of the government Government decree 198 and 199. on the proposal of the Prime Minister, I concluded that Dr. Zsófia Koncz, Dr. Anikó Raisz and Attila Steiner were State Secretary of the Ministry of Energy from 1 December 2022; Balázs Csepreghy and Lánszki Regő and Bálint Sándor Nagy State Secretary of the Ministry of Construction and Transport from 1 December 2022; Dr. Sándor Czomba, Gergely Fábián, Dr. János Fónagy and Máté Lóga from 1 January 2023, State Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Development. Budapest, 30 December 2022 Sincerely, Katalin Novak.
u2023-02-27-66	László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4) (j) of the Fundamental Law and the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration. Law 205. § (1) and (4) and 229. On the proposal of the Prime Minister, Dr. Anikot Túri, Secretary of State of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister, was relieved of this mandate with effect from 31 December 2022, and was appointed Minister of State of the Ministry of Economic Development with effect from 1 January 2023. Budapest, 12 December 2022 Sincerely, Katalin Novak.
u2023-02-27-67	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4) (j) of the Fundamental Law and the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration. On the basis of the relevant provisions of Act No 2023, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, I concluded that Dr. Péter Hoppál, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Culture and Innovation, will be terminated with effect from 31 January 2023, and I appointed Mr Magdolna Závogyán as State Secretary of the Ministry of Culture and Innovation on the proposal of the Prime Minister with effect from 1 February 2023. Budapest, 25 January 2023 Sincerely, Katalin Novak.
u2023-02-27-68	László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4) (j) of the Fundamental Law and the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration. Law 202. On the basis of paragraph 2 of the Act, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, Mr Zsolt V. Németh was appointed State Secretary of the Ministry of Energy with effect from 8 February 2023. Budapest, 7 February 2023 With all due respect, Katalin Novak. I'm sorry, I'm sorry,
u2023-02-27-69	Thank you very much, notaries. Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of Parliament and myself, to congratulate the secretary of state, the secretary of state, and wish you every success in your work. Dear House, I would like to inform you that Holman Magdolna has resigned as Vice-President of the State Audit Office with effect from 30 November 2022. With effect from 1 January 2023, László Windisch, President of the State Audit Office appointed Dr. Csaba Szomolai as the new Vice-President of the State Audit Office. I congratulate the Vice-President and wish him every success in his work. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that there was no consensus at last week's meeting of the House Committee on the proposed working schedule of the 2023 Spring Session of the Parliament. Therefore, Parliamentary Act 13. Pursuant to paragraph 6 of Section 6 of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the working order. [[17.10]] The proposed working schedule was available to my fellow Members on the website. Before we begin the voting procedure, we will carry out a presence check to verify that the voting machines are operational. My fellow Members, please take your seats and press one of the buttons of your voting machine. [[Attendance check.]] I note that 179 are present and 19 are absent, so the Parliament has a quorum. Accordingly, I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the proposed schedule of work of the 2023 Spring Session. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the schedule of work of the 2023 Spring Session by 130 votes in favour, 41 votes against and 10 abstentions. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the government has submitted a legislative programme for the spring session, which interested parties have been able to learn on the IT network. Dear Parliament, It is now time to set the agenda for our meeting starting today. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time shall be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. The resolution house rule is 86. § 4 pursuant to Rule 37 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure The Commission shall discuss the application of §2 in a time-frame. On this basis, I would like to propose that V/2851 on the environmental and economic impacts of battery factories installed and to be installed in Hungary. The Parliament will discuss the number of proposals in a four-hour time frame. The agenda recommendation shall include a time frame allocation. I now call on notary Lajos Szűcs to present the motion for a time frame allocation. Here you go, notary.
u2023-02-27-70	Dear Parliament, The distribution of the proposed timeframe is as follows: 82 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 38 minutes for the KDNP Group, 22 minutes for the DK Group, 18 minutes for the Momentum Group, 18 minutes for the MSZP Group, 16 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 14 minutes for the Group of Hungary, 14 minutes for the Dialogue Group, 14 minutes for the LMP Group and 4 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 10-10 minutes lead speakers.
u2023-02-27-71	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. So I ask the Honourable Parliament, and he agrees that the proposal will be discussed within a four-hour time frame. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the hearing of the proposal in the time frame by 130 votes in favour, 49 votes against and two abstentions. Dear Parliament, The government initiated an exceptional procedure for the Parliament to discuss the 2006 XCVII on professional chambers in health care. T/3065 on the amendment of Act T/3065 and certain related laws. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The Government initiated the possibility of submitting an amending proposal within 3 hours of the decision on the exceptional procedure, the consolidated debate being held on Tuesday, 28 February 2023, on tomorrow's meeting as the first item on the agenda, and the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote on Tuesday, 28 February 2023. Rule 62 of the House Rules Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that more than half of the Members, namely 100 Members, have to vote in favour in order to order an exceptional procedure. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for decision-making. I'm asking you, do you accept T/3065? Submitted in exceptional proceedings pursuant to the national motion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the hearing of the proposal in exceptional proceedings by 129 votes in favour, 52 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, In accordance with our agreed decision, it is now possible to submit amendments for 20 hours and 15 minutes. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on the amendments to the agenda. The Fidesz Group proposed that the proposal contained in the proposal for an exception be decided at 15.00 on the meeting of the Parliament on 28 February 2023, that is, Tuesday. Anyone who agrees with that, vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I note that this is a visible majority, i.e. the visible majority of the Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The Group of Mi Hazan suggested that T/637 on the announcement of the Protocol on the accession of the Republic of Finland to the North Atlantic Treaty Bill No 638 and the T/638 on the publication of the Protocol on the accession of the Kingdom of Sweden to the North Atlantic Treaty The general discussion of the legislative proposal No 1 shall not take place at this meeting. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] It's an obvious minority. I find that the visible majority of Parliament has not accepted the proposal. [[Dr. Bertalan Tóth reporting.]] You can only apply on a case-by-case basis once the agenda has been adopted. This is a crucial point in the House Rules. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, In the absence of a committee agreement, on the basis of the motion tabled by the President, we now decide on the Commission's discussion and decision-making of the proposals. I ask the Honourable Parliament to invite the designated Economic Committee to submit a report on the safety of nuclear energy in the year 2021 B/2225. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the designated committee to take a decision by 127 votes in favour, 50 votes against and one abstention. Dear Parliament, I ask the Honourable Parliament to invite the designated Economic Committee to submit a report on the security of the domestic application of nuclear power in 2020: B/2274. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the designated committee to take a decision by 125 votes in favour, 52 votes against and one abstention. Dear Parliament, I ask the Honourable Parliament to invite the designated Committee of Culture to report to the President of the Hungarian Academy of Arts B/2357. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the designated committee to take a decision by 127 votes in favour, 50 votes against and one abstention. [[17.20]] Dear Parliament, I ask the Honourable National Assembly to ask the designated National Defence and Police Committee about the implementation of the Defence responsibilities in 2021, the preparation, state and development of the Hungarian Defence Forces [[♪ It's a secret]] B/2358. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the designated committee to take a decision by 126 votes in favour, 50 votes against and one abstention. Dear Parliament, I ask the Honourable Parliament to invite the designated Justice Committee to submit the Parliamentary Report on the activities of the National Remembrance Committee in 2021, B/2388. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the designated committee to take a decision by 126 votes in favour, 51 votes against and one abstention. Dear Parliament, I ask the Honourable Parliament to ask the designated Economic Committee to ask B/2790, submitted on behalf of the State, on the operation in 2021 of organisations exercising ownership rights on behalf of the State, on the evolution of the stock of state assets, on the processes of government wealth management. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: The Parliament asked the designated committee to take a decision by 125 votes in favour, 51 votes against and one abstention. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now possible to present a point of order proposal [[On Dr. Bertalan Tóth's signal:]] which the congressman had just withdrawn. Thank you very much. We're taking a two-minute technical break. (Sunning: 17.22 17.25 President: Dr. János Latorcai Note: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Szűcs)
u2023-02-27-72	I would ask both my pro-government and opposition colleagues that those who wish to leave the Chamber now should do so as smoothly as possible so that we can continue our work. Thank you very much. Now it's 5:25 and we're moving on to interpellations. Dear Parliament, Congressman Ferenc Dávid, a representative of DK, has submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade. When is it expected that we will leave the Russian spy bank and no longer endanger the security of Europe? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, István Nagy, Minister for Economic Development, who is responsible and competent according to the subject, responds to the interpellation. Márton Nagy, Minister for Economic Development, has appointed Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary. It is for Congressman Ferenc David. Here you go.
u2023-02-27-73	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity. Dear Secretary of State, You will remember that the Minister of Foreign Affairs actively participated in the agreement that in 2019 the Fidesz majority voted in favour of the Russian spy bank, the International Investment Bank, which moved to Budapest and is based here, by exempting all its employees and guests from the supervision of the Hungarian authority. This means that leaders and guests can move according to the rules of diplomatic immunity in Hungary and throughout the European Union. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Now the situation has become even more embarrassing because Hungary is completely alone among the shareholders of the International Investment Bank in Europe. As a result of the Russian aggression against Ukraine, Slovakia and the Czech Republic had already left the bank earlier, Romania will be leaving on 9 June, and Bulgaria has now announced that it will terminate its shareholder membership on 15 August. Hungary, therefore, remained entirely alone among the bank's shareholders, in an area such as Cuba, Mongolia and Vietnam; in a bank called the Russian spy bank all over Europe, which, according to many, was the extended hand of the Russian secret service. A bank through which Putin can smuggle Russian spies to Europe, who, using your diplomatic immunity, are free to travel on the continent, who knows what matters to do. I repeat: while other European countries are trying to get rid of all the connections that can link them to the Russian spy bank, their leaders and guests are still fully exempt in Hungary. That is why I ask Mr Secretary of State: how is it that Hungary remains the sole shareholder of the Russian spy bank? How can the Hungarian government afford not only to tolerate an establishment that seriously endangers the security of Europe but also to support it enthusiastically? How much is Hungary's support for an organization that can help spies of the war aggressor in Europe? How does this serve peace? When is it expected that the Hungarian government will announce that it will leave the spy bank and will no longer endanger the security of our country and of Europe? That's what I'm looking forward to, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much in advance. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-02-27-74	Thank you, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. State Secretary János Fónagy responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2023-02-27-75	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to make it clear from the very beginning that you referred to 2019 that Hungary has entered an international bank based in Hungary, not a financial institution classified by you. Ergo, where we didn't enter, we can't leave. We didn't enter a bank of the kind that you've just classified in your question. At that time, this did not endanger or threaten the safety of Europe, or even for the sake of the United Nations. [[17 .30]] Unfortunately, we have to agree that the war in Ukraine has changed everything in politics, economy and banking. The International Investment Bank is a multilateral development institution established to promote the development of relations and integration between the economies of the Member States of the Bank in order to support sustainable growth and increase the competitiveness of certain national economies, also relying on the historical links established and existing between them. The Bank was established as an international organisation on the basis of an Intergovernmental Agreement on the Establishment of the International Investment Bank, signed on 10 July 1970, signed at the United Nations Secretariat on 1 December 1970, which was subsequently amended several times, and the Statute of the Bank, which is an integral part of the Agreement. Until the outbreak of the war, the International Investment Bank was one of the highest rated financial institutions in the operational areas, with the average rating of international credit rating agencies. The International Investment Bank is not a threat to Europe's security, as I mentioned earlier, either because of the aforementioned UN entry. On 23 February 2023, i.e. four days ago, the bank's shareholders were also Bulgaria, Cuba, Hungary, as you mentioned, Mongolia, Russia, Romania and Vietnam, which I did not normally underestimate. The Government of Hungary has always sought to comply with international treaties. The known sanctions have no impact on the functioning of the bank, as an international financial organisation registered in the UN Secretariat, we consider that it is outside the policy. I would ask you to consider what you said when you adopted your reply. Thank you for the opportunity.
u2023-02-27-76	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman if he'll take the answer. You have the floor.
u2023-02-27-77	I'll start right off with the point. Secretary of State hasn't answered any of the questions I've asked. So that's why I couldn't accept the answer, even if I were to approach it with good intentions. What Mr Secretary of State has not said, and I think it is extremely important that we do not know the financial activities of this bank. What we do know, however, is that this institution is experiencing very serious financial difficulties. So in any way, from a national security point of view or financial point of view, the existence of this bank in Hungary does not serve our interests, there is no reason for this bank to be here. In Hungary there is Development Bank, the state, if it has such activities, can provide it. Besides, it can only be suspicious, Mr. Secretary, that everyone in this bank has fled, except Cuba, Mongolia, Vietnam. Two: that Hungary is now the second largest owner of this bank as a result of many exits, and if this bank goes bankrupt, Hungary will have serious payment obligations. Therefore, I repeat: the answer to me is unacceptable to us. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-02-27-78	Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that a decision will be taken in accordance with our agreed agenda today. Dear Parliament, Imre Komjáthi, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interview to the Minister of Finance:.. Why does the government allow inflation to devour pensions and incomes? Or the case of the tiger and the brave Prime Minister. Congressman Imre Komjathi has the floor.
u2023-02-27-79	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, inflation is like a tiger, and you only have one bullet. If you don't hit him, he'll eat you. Please trust us, we'll hit you. Viktor Orbán said in his short-term year review with puns, but a little shorter than Mrs.Putin. I do not know where Viktor Orbán came from with the tiger, when the bear is the greatest danger here, and why he has only one bullet, but the main reason why this metaphor limps is because this tiger was actually created by the Hungarian government. The hunting Prime Minister wants to fight his own creation. I would like to support this with the following: Hungarian inflation at European level has been rising since 2021. Analysts also found and showed that inflation increased several months before the beginning of the war, as early as the summer of 2021 and early autumn. Nowhere else has inflation increased as much as in Hungary. In the euro area inflation is falling, while Hungarian inflation is the highest in the European Union. The change in food prices has been the highest in the EU since summer. Drought damage has not been sufficiently mitigated for farmers, and the government is not providing support to farmers because of increased overhead costs, so they are forced to raise prices. That's the explanation for the price explosion in September. Furthermore, according to the government, sanctioned inflation is the cause of all this. But if the prices had indeed gone so far because of the sanctions in Brussels, who was responsible for this? Who voted for these sanctions? The Hungarian Government is responsible for sanctioning inflation, as it has voted in favour of all sanctions. But now, let's get to the inflation rate for pensioners. As I have already mentioned, from September 2021 everyone could feel the rise in prices, but pensioners, low incomes, have suffered far above average price increases. According to January data, pensioner inflation was 27.4 percent. Compared to this, the government beats its breasts by raising pensions by 15 percent. So here's a giant tiger, a record inflation and about half the size of a pension increase, and the wage increase isn't much more than where it was. For all these reasons, why does the government allow the tiger to eat pensions? How will they hit this particular tiger? I must add that in recent weeks we have asked the government a number of questions about pensions and social benefits, but we have not received any meaningful answers. These questions remain questions. I'm waiting for answers.
u2023-02-27-80	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Deputy Minister András Tállai responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2023-02-27-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Party President, As far as the inflation debate is concerned, I must say that it is quite difficult to interpret it, because it is difficult to argue that the rise in energy prices is the main cause of inflation throughout Europe and, of course, in Hungary. It is also difficult to argue that the significant increase in energy prices and the price explosion were caused by sanctions in Brussels. The result is that the increase in energy prices has spread to all sectors, since all sectors use energy for their production. Of course, you say that Hungary voted in favour of these sanctions. From this it is true that in a good sense, the Prime Minister of Hungary lobbyed in Brussels to take out the points, to remove the elements of the decision that are harmful to Hungary. And when that happened, he never vetoed the imposition of the sanction. As regards the impact of inflation, it is not the first time that we have discussed which party's pension policy is the right one, yours, the MSZP or the Fidesz-KDNP government. Therefore, it is true that you were not a Member at the time, but the MSZP government also experienced a crisis. True, it was economic in nature, and it is also true that the MSZP government, led by Ferenc Gyurcsány, did not recognize the problems and problems in due time, so it could not act. At the last minute, the Hungarian budget started to pay at all, and therefore turned to the IMF's credit. This is your crisis management. And the IMF has ordered you to do a lot of things. For example, not to preserve the real value of pensions, but to reduce it, reduce it by less raising pensions than inflation and reduce it by taking away the 13th month pension. [[17.40]] On the other hand, the pension policy of the Fidesz-KDNP government is completely different. It is about the fact that in 2010, we made a promise and an alliance with pensioners that we would always protect the real value of pensions, the value of the customer, whether it be peacetime and difficult economic situation, whether it is peacetime and a better, growing economic situation and result, and at that time we gave additions, we were able to provide a pension premium, and be difficult time, crisis time, Covid, war, Brussels sanctions, energy price explosion, difficult economic situation, inflation, price increases. I think that we have preserved pensions by 15% for 2023, but if that is necessary, as we have done last year, we will also make an extension to pensioners during the year. One sure thing we promised the pensioners was that we would keep the value of pensions, and that we would do it, and we would do it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-02-27-82	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Deputy Minister's reply. You have the floor.
u2023-02-27-83	Thank you very much. I cannot accept the answer, Mr Secretary, and I have strong suspicion that there is a government artificial intelligence, there is much talk about it now, this chatGPT, on which you enter the words Brussels and the Gyurcsány government, and about this response. Unfortunately, this is not the reality; you are living in an alternate reality. The reality is that pensioner society and otherwise Hungarian society suffer from inflation. The reality is that people go to the store, and they look about like they're at a museum tour, where they look at the goods, they look at the prices, and they see everything for the eyes, nothing for the hands. Therefore, we recommend that the MSZP proposals be adopted, that the pricestops be maintained, that they be extended; that they give support to small shops, farmers, to reduce to zero the VAT on basic foods, thus helping the troubled Hungarian society, which suffers from inflation. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of MSZP.]]
u2023-02-27-84	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman did not accept the response to the interpellation. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our sitting today. Dear Parliament, Róbert Dudás, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Economic Development:. There is also a solution and a source to save the mails. Congressman Róbert Hondas has the floor.
u2023-02-27-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Last autumn, the government came up with the less thoughtful, but far more damaging idea of closing 366 of 210 settlements. I spoke on this issue long before you said that these were just false news that I was talking about. You said last fall that this was purely temporary. I've already told you that once a post office is closed, or whatever it is, the reopening of it is always questionable and doubtful. Not six months ago, a week and a half ago, the Hungarian government announced that these post offices would not open again. Six months ago, I was told that I was only temporarily locked up. They tried to get the local authorities to take over the mail; 32 were also managed by the municipalities, but this does not mean that they did not want to take over the other 330, but they do not have the resources and they do not have the opportunity to finance it. Mr. Secretary. You've been planning this for over a year, and we don't know where it ends; you've just been waiting for some reason, some reason to do this. They are now saying that this must be done by the crisis caused by sanctions. Two things are forgotten about sanctions. One is that Hungary's Prime Minister did not vote for all the sanctions, but the Prime Minister of Hungary did. They also forget to say that it is merely a will, because it would be a source, because only last year, HUF 1400 billion more tax revenue came into the Hungarian state than was planned. Mr. Secretary. Let's get this straight, let's be honest and honest. What's your plan with the Hungarian Post? Do you even want to help me, and how many more mail do you want to close? The Hungarian government has made a commitment to 1600 post offices in the direction of Magyar Posta. Do you really want to go down to 1600? Because that means 600 more post offices have to be closed. Mr. Secretary. Let the Hungarian government have legal protection and guarantee that the Hungarian government will no longer go below 2200 in terms of the post offices! Get legal protection for small-town mail. The current number of thousands of permanent staff should be reduced to 500, so that it would not be possible to close a small town post office. In fact, support will be given to Jobbik's budget amendment, which seeks to protect the now closed six months ago theoretically temporarily, but it has now turned out that it is permanently closed for the reopening of mail. That would be HUF 20 billion. There would be a source; the question is whether there is a will. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2023-02-27-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary János Fónagy responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2023-02-27-87	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You mentioned it yourself, and you are right, the energy prices that have been unleashed by war and sanctions in Brussels have put the post office in a difficult position. This penalty premium represents an additional cost of approximately HUF 20 billion for the company. However, you know very well that the Hungarian State cannot provide support to the post office because it constitutes prohibited state aid. In this crisis, the government has undertaken to complete the internal renewal of the post so that we can reduce the loss and make its operation sustainable. The Hungarian Posta must become a modern state company with a customer-oriented, competitive, digital and service-oriented approach, which meets European trends. The task of the company's management is to rationalise and modernise the organization and establish the basis for economic operation. In recent years, Magyar Posta has made a number of improvements that make postal services available not only personally but also on the most modern digital channels. However, postal services remain at a high level at the available places of service after the changes have been made. Magyar Posta is currently and in the future substantially overachieving its legal obligations. According to the EU directive, which you have mentioned, in a country of this size and population, more than 2,200 post offices are currently available to customers across the country instead of around 1,600 post offices. Domestic coverage is also outstanding at international level: in Hungary there are 3.46 post offices for 10,000 inhabitants; this number is 2.91 in Europe. In rural settlements, the mobile mail service has fulfilled its expectations, and according to the public feedback, customers are very satisfied with this service. We have examined the proposals made by Congressman. In our view, neither postal, economic or customer-side considerations justify or support their fulfilment. In February 23 the company launched a new partnership programme, which provides an opportunity for local governments, businesses, grocery stores, pharmacies, bank branches et cetera and other partners to participate in the operation of the mail. Internationally, many countries have similar forms of mail. In the framework of the Hungarian village, the post office is integrated into 220 of the small regrowing settlement shops. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the companies intend to give the partners the opportunity to receive checks, receive letters and take packages in a partner's treatment, so the delivery to the house and to the address point will continue to be carried out by Magyar Posta. In the new partner model, postal responsibilities can be provided in addition to existing entrepreneurial or service activities, thus increasing customer base and turnover. [[17.50]] The new model provides an opportunity for the public to continue to provide services locally but at longer opening hours. Magyar Posta will continue to provide the possibility to operate the mail on the basis of a contract under renewed conditions. In this case, the contracting party shall pay a fee on a business basis and the company shall pay a fee at the place requested by its contractual partner. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] carries out the services with its own employee and its own assets. I ask you, Member, to appreciate what I have said in my reply. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-27-88	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask the congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2023-02-27-89	Thank you, Mr. President. I appreciate it, Mr. Secretary, the answer you've given me for a long time, but I can't accept it. You're talking about modernising and introducing a new model; it's closing, I'm just saying, not modernising. There is no person in Hungary who does not support modernization, we cannot support closure. He's got to be competitive, he says. Mr. Secretary. In Hungary, the average earnings are 582,000 forints based on the KSH data, which is a lot to argue with, according to the official data of the Hungarian Post Office, 378 thousand forints. Twenty-five thousand postmen live from this, so it is safe to say that they are in doubt that, by the way, the Hungarian Post Office has pushed their two-percent wage increase even more generously by one percent this year. We're talking three percent! Mr. Secretary. Financial and moral appreciation to both the office and its employees, and through them to the whole country of Hungary, and even to the inhabitants of the city, to all Hungarians; Jobbik represents this as a conservative community. Please support our bill on this subject. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2023-02-27-90	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our sitting today. Dear Parliament, President Novak, representative of Mi Hazan, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior: -Why does a policeman have to die in order to finally use a weapon against a criminal who attacks a knife? It's an address. Congressman Novak has the floor.
u2023-02-27-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The murder of a policeman in NewBuda requires action beyond the expression of compassion, so that similar tragedies may not occur in the future. I suggested a heroic death in the line of duty for the posthumous promotion of Police Sergeant Péter Baumann. You have done this, Minister of the Interior, thank you, but you have no longer supported my proposals for legislative change and procurement of protective equipment. Under the current, overly strict rules, cops almost never dare to use their weapons against criminals. For example, a few months ago, on the M5 highway, smugglers were chased for tens of kilometers while firing sharp firearms at the police in traffic, and when criminals ran towards a field, even when policemen dared to use their weapons, which would be necessary to show a deterrent force. I therefore call for an increase in the right of public authorities to use weapons in service. You refused this motion by saying that in the case of the NewBuda police murder, there was a possibility of using firearms, that the policeman would not be dragged for it this time. But, Mr. Secretary, why does a policeman have to die in order to finally use a weapon against a criminal with a knife? Do you realise that the use of weapons by police officers should be encouraged and their rights broadened? In addition, I asked the staff to be equipped with puncture-resistant and cutting-resistant breasts, so that at least if the police were to go to such violent disorderly persons, they would be in such protective clothing. According to the Secretary of State, the police have the necessary number of ballistics, which means they have bulletproof breasts. Or are you suggesting that Peter Baumann, a police officer who died of heroism, made a mistake? Of course, there may be a flaw in training, but their equipment is also incomplete, we have to say that. The currently regular and installed ballistic vest, the blue, a heavy, useless vest, which is mostly designed for military use, so it's not as good as anyone can get from eBay, and what, say, can be put under a sweater. You should have something that the policeman picks up on duty, and he doesn't mind moving, he can wear it almost undetected, because it's comfortable. If that vest that's currently on the schedule is picked up by the police, it can't move, it looks more like an ice hockey guy. However, we believe that the police should be more of a role model than the Italian police's protective equipment. Are you therefore willing to make the necessary changes in order to avoid similar tragedies in the future, or will everything remain the same? [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-02-27-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2023-02-27-93	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, After 2010, we set out to have, on the one hand, a proportionate defence option for everyone who is under attack. We can remember that many times before 2010, those who saved their own property or their own physical integrity and their lives were placed on the bench of the accused, and they examined whether this was proportionate or not; on the other hand, we sought to increase public security in Hungary as much as possible. On this particular matter, I think we should all speak first of all in the voice of compassion, since it was the death of a true, committed young policeman. Minister Sándor Pintér not only declared Peter Baumann heroic but also promoted him to posthumous police chief. Obviously, it's a huge blow, it's a tragedy for a parent to lose a child, and that's as sad as it gets in life, it might not be worth losing a child of its own. This shook the police working there, all the other police officers and all the good people in Hungary. At the same time, if we are talking about equipment, the legal environment, honourable Member, as you have said, every patrolman in his car has a vest that he can wear, and of course the right legal conditions also exist: the law of the police, precisely so that the police can defend themselves, it is particularly important, it provides all legal possibilities. And we have to say that this current police law, the current rules on the use of weapons, you know that they were later likely to use their weapons, and that on the street the two wounded police officers were able to dispose of them, this is the current law on the use of weapons, but the current training of the police has led us to the fact that the number of deliberate manslaughter has dropped by about half over a decade, but the annual crime rate has also dropped from 447 thousand to 152 thousand; this is much less than half, about one third of the crime rate has dropped. If you have also read the survey of the French polling company Ipsos, which has been conducted in almost every more developed country in the world, it has also shown that one of the Hungarian people has the greatest sense of security, so in one of the smallest proportions Hungarian people think that they can become victims of crime or violence. So the road we went in made Hungary one of the safest countries in the world, the Hungarian people are one of the most secure countries. So when we bring up regulations in other countries here, let us consider that it is usually possible to refer to the regulation of countries where criminal statistics are worse than in Hungary, where the situation of public security is worse than in Hungary. With this proportionality, this equipment of police officers and the increase in police wages, the exchange of arms money, police cars, the renewal of police stations, and, of course, the development of prisons and the strong expansion of the number of residents, Hungary is fortunately one of the safest European countries, and Budapest is one of the safest capitals in Europe. Thank God there are very few times when cops lose their lives. Each case is a tragedy, but if we look at the last 10 to 15 years, we can see that this is even less common in Hungary than in other countries, and especially in relation to America, thank God, these cases are less frequent. Every such case is a tragedy, but if we look at the whole police force, the whole country, then we can see that the kind of system that is now built up and financed from the budget has made Hungary one of the safest countries in Europe. Thank you very much.
u2023-02-27-94	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll ask the congressman if he'll take the answer. You have the floor. [[18.00]]
u2023-02-27-95	Secretary of State says everything's fine, everything's fine, and yet a policeman is dead. He had to die because they couldn't use their guns because the police wouldn't dare use their guns. [[Bence Rétvári: They could have used it!]] And what you're saying is, in the end, the two wounded officers on the street could have used it after one of their own was killed. They weren't supposed to use their guns on the street in the stairwell, but they can't do that. Therefore, there is a need to widen the police's right to use weapons and encourage policemen to use weapons. It's been a couple of weeks, and we've gotten to the point where the cops can't even protect themselves anymore. However, there is one thing that the government is very good at, I have to admit: the cosmetics of numbers, the cosmetics of statistics, for example, that it says and boasts that the number of crimes has decreased, mainly because the default threshold has been increased to HUF 50,000. [[Bence Rétvári: Is the number of homicides therefore reduced?]] And so, let's say, stealing an average bike is no longer a crime, of course, that's just a violation. Therefore, I cannot accept your answer. It's been two weeks a lot, we're out of patience, we want order. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-02-27-96	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman did not accept the Deputy Minister's reply. A decision will be taken in accordance with our adopted agenda on our sitting today. Dear Parliament, Sándor Berki, a representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Economic Development: It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-02-27-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The government itself admitted: Hungary has no competitive advantage in battery production other than generous state subsidies. In other words, there is no condition for us to be a power of battery production following the government's fever dreams. There is no cheap renewable energy because it has been forbidden to build wind farms for ten years and because solar panels are subject to a penalty tax. There is no water, because the country is drying out because of climate change and failed government water management. And there is not enough labour for which the government and its conscious wage reduction policy are also responsible. In the Samsung factory in Göd, less than half of 3594 workers are Hungarian citizens, the other foreign migrant workers and less than a hundred inhabitants of Göd work in the plant. Then why did Gödre set up this factory? I'm sure it's not the work force. Yet, in a false way, the government classified the industrial area as a special economic zone on the grounds of protecting jobs. By taking away the trade tax from the Göds, they must suffer the environmental damage, they must live with the constant fire and explosion risk the factory poses. They do not benefit from the economic benefits because the tax paid by the factory is taken away by the government. This is how Hungary's Government works small and large: you have the profit, we have the damage. The Debrecen Battery Company has similar problems. While the residents of Debrecen still know almost nothing about the investment, local news shows that they are already looking for the apartments for Chinese migrant workers. Why aren't people lining up to work in a battery factory? Wages are too low, you hear about 1200-1700 forints an hour. Well, that's not an attractive offer. Especially with the fact that working in the battery factory is dangerous, the authorities have detected dozens of occupational safety irregularities at Samsung, none of which has been seriously sanctioned, even though there has been a death. The most important thing for me is security, and it is impossible for workers to sacrifice their health, lives and livelihoods for the profits of foreign factories. That is why I look forward to your response: how does the government tighten up controls to ensure that battery companies are safe jobs? And what do they do to ensure that these factories employ domestic labour primarily by paying a fair, competitive wage? Thank you for your reply.
u2023-02-27-98	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary János Fónagy responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2023-02-27-99	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I ask that we take each other seriously, and not just express our views by referring to rumors and various press opinions. I think it is not disputed that, despite the prolonged war and harmful sanctions, the number of people employed in Hungary has increased by 46,000 compared to the previous year, and is currently 4.7 million. The unemployment rate was 3.9 percent, thus Hungary is somewhere the fifth and sixth most favourable in this respect in the EU. The government also helps to increase domestic employment and to meet the growing labour demand of companies through legislation, primarily through the use of Hungarian workers. This political will has not changed since 2010. We have developed and implemented a number of measures to encourage the increased job search and return to the labour market of the so-called inactive workforce reserve in Hungary. According to the latest figures, and I say this to your question about wages in December 2022, the average gross wage rose to HUF 581 900, the average net earnings increased to HUF 400 300. In 2022 as a whole, gross average earnings increased by 17.5 percent and net average earnings by 18.2 percent, even under international conditions. With 14.5 percent inflation last year, the real value of wages increased by 2.6 percent per year, so we believe that real wage growth has been in progress for 10 years since 2013. This is also outstanding at international level, for example, the decline in real wages in Germany for the third year. In addition, the government can also help companies to favour Hungarian workers by improving the employability of the labour force reserve. This is supported by an administrative measure which ensures that third-country workers can, as a rule, obtain a work permit in Hungary only if they are unable to complete the job in question with both domestic and EU workers. As regards the location of the Göd plant: please, this was not created in a settlement of 20,000 people, but in Central Hungary, in the catchment area of several medium towns such as Vác or Dunakeszi, but in the centre of a region of 3 to 3.5 million people in Central Hungary. It is natural that a larger factory recruits the workforce not only from the municipality concerned, but also from its wider area. In the case of investment in Debrecen, we expect employees not only from Debrecen or Hajdú-Bihar County, but also from the North Great Plain region. Finally, unlike a number of other issues, I agree with Mr President that when industrial plants operate, safety and environmental protection are essential aspects. The competent authorities shall monitor the strict compliance and enforcement of the relevant OSH and environmental rules both in the issuing of permits and in the operation of the plant. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Hungarian legislation is more stringent than the EU's expectations, and I consider it to be the strictest in the EU. I ask you to take this into account in your response to acceptance. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-27-100	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2023-02-27-101	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I am very pleased that we agree on OSH. I know the statistics, too, but reality overrides what has been said here. I've heard of such high average wages and various things, but that's not true in reality. In reality, the employees are not paid, in reality the salary is not HUF 500,000, but HUF 200,000, and these are unacceptable to the employees. The second is that trade union systems need to be strengthened, the interests of workers need to be better protected; the environment must be protected, and jobs must be created in such a way that both the environment and man benefit from it. Therefore, I cannot accept Mr Secretary's reply. I can ask Mr Secretary of State to lobby together so that Hungarian workers can earn more, as much as they can make a living. Thank you. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]] [[18.10]]
u2023-02-27-102	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. In accordance with our adopted agenda, the decision will take place on our sitting today. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Energy:. Why does the government sell out our agricultural land, our drinking water and other natural resources in exchange for the service of foreign battery manufacturers and foreign profit interests? By answering the interpellation, Prime Minister Péter Szijjártó appointed Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, who was competent according to the subject, to reply to the interpellation at the request of Minister Levente Magyar Deputy Minister. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-02-27-103	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We are going to talk again about an issue that basically defines the future of our nation. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, you have made a political decision to install a whole range of foreign battery factories in Hungary, and you intend to pay a price in exchange for this goal, which is basically a match for the future of our children. Your political decision actually ignores the protection of our natural resources, selling our land, our water resources, so that, by the way, only the economic effects of this are clearly negative. According to your decision, foreign companies, these gigantic foreign companies, bring pollution here, revive our natural resources, but take the profits away, and typically do not give the opportunity to the local, not the Hungarian workforce. But in order not to speak in the air, I would like to quote some thoughts from László Palkovics about battery production. László Palkovics said at the hearing of the Ministers' Candidates: "In terms of sustainability, in my opinion, there are risks. Unfortunately, the greens, environmental NGOs, or industry lobbyists, who sell themselves green, do not necessarily see this; therefore, László Palkovics sees this about battery factories. And László Palkovics also said at this meeting that if we look at what is related to battery production, what energy needs, what raw material needs, what environmental pressures, then this is the other part of the matter, so we have to create a ballansz in some form between the two; once again, I just stress that I quoted László Palkovics. Well, as far as your plans are concerned, there's no balance. You bring these gigantic foreign battery manufacturers here without counting, without any overall strategic consideration behind this plan and its implementation. You do not talk about the extent to which these foreign companies use our natural resources, the extent to which they use our water resources. There is no mention of the enormous increase in the energy demand of Hungary when the energy demand of the Hungarian economy is already quite disproportionate. And they don't talk about how you're practically trying to build new nuclear power blocks to power these alien battery companies. And not only do they not talk, but they keep secrets, they practically hide the price of your plans from the Hungarian people, they hide that the price of the rich West's green transition is being paid by the Hungarians. Mr. Secretary, three times you have not answered my question, so I would like to ask you: what will be the total energy and water needs of the existing and planned battery plants? And one more question about the fact that Debrecen's pro-government mayor openly agreed to implement the battery plant against the city's interests and the city's intentions. You'll accept it. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] that the inhabitants of a city have the right to make decisions about the future of their own settlement, their own city? Thank you very much. [[Antal Csárdi applauds.]]
u2023-02-27-104	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister Levente Magyar, who responds to the interpellation. Here you go.
u2023-02-27-105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, On the opposition's part, you refer to these investors in Hungary as foreign battery manufacturers, while this indicator is not used so often for other industries. By doing so, I think that they want to create a kind of atmosphere that should be developed against foreign investors in this particular segment of the Hungarian public. I do not think this is appropriate, because if, in other cases, there is no problem with foreign investors arriving in Hungary, I would also say this aspect in the case of the battery industry. And by the way, what does the "alien" cover? It covers Chinese, Koreans, Germans and other ethnicities, so I think it's a good sign to treat. The congressman is well aware of the figures, and he understands how much of a slide it is to say that the Paks expansion is for the sake of the battery manufacturer. That's not why it's happening. This is a determined, strategic and indispensable energy source, electricity capacity in Hungary ten years ago, which we cannot replace with anyone else. Whether battery manufacturers come or not, Paks II. enlargement is justified, and there is an elemental interest in the Hungarian economy and the Hungarian families, even because, in time, as Congressman knows exactly the dates, Paks I will be released. This is under trial for exactly when, but sooner or later, Paks I. is out, so if for no other reason, that's why Paks II. absolutely necessary. So my request is to talk about these issues objectively and without any tendentious overtones that give us a context from which we can see the substance much more clearly. For the mobility of the future, for the successful implementation of the green transition, we all know that the use of high-performance battery technology has become essential worldwide. Accordingly, the players in the industry have made huge improvements, so we cannot only observe this process in Hungary. According to Bloomberg data, there are 55 current battery production sites throughout North America, embodying some 813 gigawatts of power. Based on the current plans, 14 battery factories will be implemented in Germany. Almost half of the EU Member States will have a factory that will specifically produce lithium-ion batteries, i.e. the technology with which the CATL will work in Debrecen, but almost all Member States will participate in the production value chain, i.e. the different stages of production. The automotive industry obviously understood this challenge. All three premium German car manufacturers in Hungary imagine achieving a significant section of their electromobility strategy, and partly because of this many suppliers are also established in Hungary. The government's strategic goal was for Western car manufacturers and Eastern battery manufacturers to meet in Hungary, thus creating the opportunity for the Hungarian economy to remain on a long-term growth path. As far as water consumption is concerned, honourable Member, this is a recurring concern about the occupation of land. Here's some numbers, let's check out Debrecen. May I remind you that at the meeting of the Committee on Sustainable Development convened on your initiative and conducted by you on 14 February now, expert Dalma Deák said, referring to official documents, that the average water consumption of the CATL factory will be a fraction of the number quoted in the written question, 70% of which the company intends to replace with grey water. For the government and the municipality, the security of water supply for the population of Debrecen is the most important. The water consumption of the plant does not jeopardise local drinking water supply. I think that we can discuss these concerns in detail during the night, on Parliament's debate day, here, let me conclude this short speech by encouraging everyone to limit ourselves to objectivity when we talk about this issue. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-27-106	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Deputy Minister's reply. You have the floor.
u2023-02-27-107	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr State Secretary, once again there has been no response to all the water needs and all the energy needs, this very important information is hidden from the Hungarian people by the government. By the way, the committee meeting quoted was indecisive because your representatives and your ministers did not come. By the way, the WWF expert at this meeting pointed out that the specific grey water programme, which has practically only one design phase, is about only a certain percentage of the average water volume of the first phase of the Debrecen battery plant designed for the three phases, so that the peak demand for the three speeds is not guaranteed in any way or is uncertain to ensure this. So the expert said exactly the opposite at this meeting. But if you would honor us, not us, but the Hungarian people, to respond to how you want to meet this amazing energy demand and how you imagine water needs to be met, then people would be given more information to finally express their views, which is also supported by our referendum initiative. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We will indeed have a lot to talk about tonight, but I cannot accept this answer because it has not been said in its content what people really need and what people have the right to know. Thank you, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-02-27-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman did not accept the Deputy Minister's reply. In accordance with our adopted agenda, the decision will take place on our sitting today. Dear Parliament, Gabriella Selmeczi and Mónika Dunai, representatives of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the finance minister: It's an address. Congresswoman Mónika Dunai has the floor. [[18.20]]
u2023-02-27-109	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Our country, Hungary, is a multigenerational home, where we, the Fidesz-KDNP party representatives, believe that it is our duty to create and maintain the safety of the elderly, just out of respect for our parents and grandparents. We must all respect the generation of our parents and grandparents who have built this country, who have a life's work to live today as we can. Over the past few years, we have faced a number of crisis situations that have never seen before, and let us just think about migration flows, a coronal virus epidemic or a war in neighboring Ukraine. All of these problems have affected our quality of life, our safety, our well-being, which the Orbán government has listened to the opinions of all Hungarian citizens in creating a strategy to protect values. We have almost not yet rid ourselves of the pandemic, we are already being shielded by the economic and energy crisis caused by the war in our neighbourhood and the failed sanctions in Brussels, which, on the basis of the latest national consultation, is rejected by almost 97 percent of Hungarians. While the national government makes decisions in difficult situations only in relation to the interests of the Hungarian people, seeking their opinion, and despite sanctioning inflation, it does not use restrictions on the population, the left-wing crisis management of Gyurcsány-Bajnai meant that pensioners were not spared, since left-wing governments between 2002 and 2010 took away the 13th month pension from 2.4 million pensioners in the worst times. If it were up to the left, the Hungarian household would not be guaranteed to protect Hungarian families, which frees every Hungarian household from the payment of approximately HUF 181 thousand each month. However, there would be no 13th month pension today, which is a huge help, and the Hungarian pensioners received it in full for the second time. Dear Secretary of State, I respectfully ask you how the government values our retired countrymen.
u2023-02-27-110	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Deputy Minister András Tállai responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2023-02-27-111	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Appreciation of pensioners has been an important goal since the change of government in 2010. This area was already highlighted in the government programme. It is a matter of respect for pensioners after a life worked out, during which today's active, search-and-go generation was raised under far more difficult circumstances than today. There are several ways to appreciate pensioners, the most important of which is obviously pension. In 2010, we agreed with pensioners that while Hungary has a national government, the purchasing value of pensions will be preserved. We kept our promise. The impact of our actions has been experienced by pensioners, as pensions have increased by nearly 92 percent since 2010 and the average pension has increased from HUF 97 thousand in 2010 to HUF 208 thousand in January 2023. Even when our 2010 campaign included this element in our programme, restoring the financial value of the elderly, we also knew that this had to be covered by the economy. However, the country was then given to us by the socialists that businesses were on the brink of a gap, the public finances, in debt, were on the verge of bankruptcy, the families were in constant financial difficulties, with foreign exchange loans in their necks, and the pensioners were even deprived of their 13th month pension. The government has developed an economic policy that has put families and businesses in a position to put public finances in order. We had to ensure the stabilisation of the incomes of families and households, including pensioners. We managed to turn the economy on a growth path, and so we were able to meet our commitment to pensions. In today's world, the prolonged war, sanctioned inflation in Hungary has been the same as in many countries of Europe. However, the government has adapted to the new situation, as we have raised pensions by 14 percent in the last year with a two-year supplement, of course, going back to January and 15 percent in January, pensions and pension-like benefits; some 2 million 440 thousand people have been raised. Only the size of the increase, the need for budget resources is about HUF 774 billion. As the Member said, one of our greatest achievements was to restore the 13th month pension, which we planned for 2024, but the good performance of the economy already made this possible in 2022. Dear Parliament, The pensioners have experienced that the civilian government considers it an important task to maintain the financial security of the elderly and helps them to maintain the reduction of the rent until the average consumption, which means saving some HUF 181 thousand per household. The government continues to monitor, monitor the life situation of pensioners and ensure the integrity of pensions. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-02-27-112	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll ask Congresswoman to accept the answer. You have the floor.
u2023-02-27-113	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, I accept your answer because, not only from that, but from every decision of the government, it is clear that the government is supporting you even in a difficult situation and is trying to guarantee the safety of people, including pensioners, and to live in predictable living conditions. However, it remains unacceptable for me that left-wing politicians, following orders from Brussels, are constantly attacking measures to help millions of Hungarians, including decisions for pensioners. Thank you very much for your reply. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-02-27-114	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman has accepted the Deputy Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, Béla Mihálffy, a representative of KDNP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Energy:.. How can the Government maintain the protective measures for Hungarian families? It's an address. Congressman Béla Mihálffy has the floor.
u2023-02-27-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The most painful point of the global crisis caused by the Russian-Ukrainian war for a year now and the sanctions crisis due to the European Union's failed response is the energy crisis for Europe's countries. Since access to energy has become more difficult for our country because of the current international situation, regardless of the exemptions fought out by the government, it is a key question for us how Hungary can increase its energy independence. In addition, it is vital that we put every single forint in the Rehabilitation Fund in order to protect families from high energy prices due to sanctions, and that the country can pay the penalty premium for energy. We Hungarians know exactly what a burden it is that in 2010 the price of electricity and gas was the most expensive for Hungarian families compared to salaries in the Gyurcsány era. [[18.30]] Therefore, the government is determined to defend the reduction of the rent despite the price of war energy. The average family saves HUF 181 thousand per month from energy prices that have been released due to faulty sanctions in Brussels to the average consumption, because in the case of the population, there is no increase in the average consumption of gas, electricity and district heating, while in the case of the above average consumption, the reduced retail market price remains until the end of the heating season, until 30 April. The reduction in the amount of average consumption is a unique measure across Europe, thanks to which Hungarian families pay the lowest energy prices in the EU. Dear Secretary of State, We find that the government's action is not only a pro form, but it is actually felt and enforced on the family's wallet. MVM Next Zrt. According to information, based on an analysis of the invoices issued by the end of November, 78 percent of the invoices issued for the supply of natural gas and 67 percent of the invoices for the supply of electricity did not include energy accounted for at retail market prices. This has a prominent role to play in reducing gas consumption by 32 percent in January compared to the first month of the previous year, while overall electricity consumption decreased by 9.5 percent. Hungarian people, households, government and local government institutions have thus made a responsible contribution to maintaining the country's energy security, which shows that they are aware of the wealth of the current, limited energy, and of the enormous help that the government of Hungary has provided in the matter. Therefore, I ask the honourable Secretary of State how the government can maintain the measures to protect Hungarian families. I look forward to the honour of Mrs Secretary of State's reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-27-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Zsófia Koncz responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2023-02-27-117	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I think it is on a very, very important topic, because due to the misguided sanctions in Brussels for the war in Ukraine, energy prices have increased to an incredible extent, and even a few months ago, it was not certain that enough energy would be available in winter. In this situation, the Hungarian government had to protect the interests of the Hungarian people from all aspects. It must be said that we have made incredible efforts in this regard over the past period. Despite the international energy crisis, Hungary used almost 6 percent of its GDP to protect electricity in 2022, making it the fourth place in the EU ranking. Thanks to the reduction of the rent, Hungarian families in the European Union pay the lowest energy prices, and thanks to the premium, they save at least HUF 181 thousand per month. The Hungarian families in the EU receive gas and electricity at the lowest prices. According to a survey in Finland, Hungarian electricity tariffs were the most favourable in the European Union in January. The European average is more than three times the domestic price, but already in Zagreb, the fourth place of the EU list, the tariff in Budapest is one and a half times the price, and the most expensive Romans have to pay more than seven times the domestic price. According to the analysis, the average gross domestic price of natural gas in the European Union was again the lowest value in Budapest. It should be noted that the price paid in Stockholm is 12 times the price paid in Budapest. The increase in average prices of consumers of natural gas in January compared to December is also quite instructive. While in Warsaw 28 percent, in Rome 14 percent, in Copenhagen 12 percent more was paid by residential consumers for natural gas, in Budapest 0 percent. The average average price of electricity in January was 21 per cent in Rome compared to December, 20 per cent in Warsaw, 11 per cent in Vienna and 0 per cent in Budapest. I think these numbers speak for themselves. Maintaining protective measures is also a priority in 2023. The Rezségvédelmi Fényi Fund, whose fiscal framework was first established by the government in HUF 670 billion, has, however, increased it fourfold to HUF 2600 billion due to changed circumstances in order to continue to protect families and Hungarian businesses. As Minister Csaba Lantos recently announced, thanks to the Rezief Protection Fund, there will be no increase in the cost of gas, electricity and district heating for the general public throughout the year, nor will the system usage fee and, in the case of consumption above average consumption, the reduced retail market price remain until the end of the heating season, i.e. until 30 April. However, support is also granted to municipalities, state-owned public service undertakings, churches and civil service providers. For example, there is a very positive impact on the electoral district of the Member, as the city of Szeged receives nearly HUF 1.3 billion of government rent, which can be used by the institutions, nursery schools, kindergartens, social institutions, sports facilities, cultural institutions. I would also like to thank the Minister very much for his work on this. Hungary's Government is insisting on the results achieved so far, and, despite the drastic increase in energy prices, it continues to provide affordable energy to the Hungarian people. Thank you very much for the support of the Christian Democratic People's Party. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-27-118	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2023-02-27-119	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for your reply. As an individual Member of Parliament, I know how important it is for people living in Szeged and Sandbackland, families living there, pensioners to reduce their rent. I am pleased that the government will continue to stand up for the Hungarian people, the Szeged people and the people in the Sandbacks. I accept your reply with thanks. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-27-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Komáromi, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. Why didn't you think before starting to break up the on-call system and the general medical care? It's an address. Congressman Zoltán Komáromi has the floor.
u2023-02-27-121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I forward, I know from your answers to me that you will probably go through the usual, repeated lies and slides of Fidesz about the state of health in Hungary a decade and a half ago, and those who were born then have graduated. But please explain to me how, after 13 years, you managed to bring complete Hungarian general medical and on-call care to the brink of collapse. At the beginning of March, i.e. two days later, the on-call system will be launched in two new counties, while the Director General of the National Rescue Service recently admitted in an interview that in Hajdú-Bihar County, where this system has already started, they managed to conclude on-call contracts with 10 to 20 percent of the general doctors, and that 40 percent of the on-call staff have no doctor. The ratio in Győr-Sopron County is even more alarming, there the on-call program starts with hospital residents, who are not aware that they are prepared for this task. Tell us about these numbers, Secretary of State, not the data of a decade and a half. Instead, you should talk about where people who get sick may turn, but who are not around to order a family doctor, in the new on-call system, in which the usual on-call facilities are being cut off in many settlements. Tell us in which settlement how many hours you will have to take a bus or drive to get help. Tell me, because I don't see a trace of the wide-ranging information campaign, and in two days, hundreds of thousands of people will be subject to the new system. You can also talk about the fact that almost 920,000 Hungarians live in areas where there are no general practitioners, and only substitutions can solve the care. Also, tell us that some 33 percent of GP practices are in an unfilled village, and according to the latest information, only 6 GPs over the age of 30 and 7 000 GPs over the age of 70 practice, i.e. literally extinction, threatening the provision of GPs. I ask the Secretary of State why the proposals of the Hungarian Medical Chamber and other professional organisations were not incorporated into the legislation before the new on-call system was imposed on the general practitioners. [[18.40]] Why didn't they solve the problems of GP first before they were sent as line soldiers into an unprepared, assembled system? After 13 years, why can't they see that the expertise is not a Bolshevik trick, but the most important and important value of Hungarian health care? Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-02-27-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. Deputy Minister, you have the floor.
u2023-02-27-123	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You yourself have pointed out, honourable Member, that the new on-call system has been in operation for nearly a month in Hajdú-Bihar County. [[Noise.]] the new, completely new on-call system. Can you tell me one single case where someone in the new on-call system hasn't been treated? Can you tell me one case when someone didn't make it to the emergency room? Can you tell me one single case where someone didn't get the on-call car? [[László Varju: How can we not?!]] Can you tell me one single case when someone called 1830 and didn't get any help there? Can you tell me one such case? [[Laszlo Varju: Yes! Dr. Zoltán Komáromi intervenes.]] In the press, wherever there was one case where a patient in the new on-call system didn't receive the care they needed? There is no such thing, honourable Member, because you are attacking this system without any example in the last three or four weeks that there is any problem in Hajdú-Bihar County, but yet you are attacking this system. If you look at the numbers that the emergency services have repeatedly published, you can see that doctors usually have to treat less than one patient per hour. You said there would be a tumult, what expectations. Mr. Congressman, what are you talking about? If you look at the number of recipients either during the afternoon evening or during the weekend period, you can see that you need to treat a maximum of one patient every approximately hour. The numbers are completely public, they are traceable to everyone, the National Rescue Service has reported on them, there is no secret in this, it is a functioning system, honourable Member, but you are criticising this, and that is what people are being tuning against, which is a huge irresponsible thing. This is a much more secure system for everyone, the new on-call system, because, on the one hand, you don't have to bug the phone numbers to see what the number of duty is; on the other hand, if there are more numbers, which I call; on the other hand, if I call them, whether they'll pick you up; if they pick you up, whether I can talk to a doctor. This is all assured, because the number 1830 should only be noted, and it should be noted that if there is a big problem, 112 should be called, and then the ambulance comes, if there is a small problem, then the 1830 has to be called, and there is a fixed telephone conversation that starts with the same quality assurance conditions as the quality assurance of the ambulance service, so it is not necessary to go out for an on-call car, you could see in the press that the on-call car was working well, but there were people who didn't work well, but there were people who had a uniform telephone number at national level; they discuss what the situation is, why medical intervention is needed; or the patient can go to the on-call, right, until 10 pm; or you have to call an ambulance, because the situation is so serious; or if the situation is not sufficient for the doctor to go to the patient in the morning, or if the home doctor is needed; This is a well-functioning system, Your Honour, and yet you are attacking it. You have not been able to give any specific example that, in the last few weeks, since it has been operating in Hajdú-Bihar County, we have had a problem with that. I can see that this is a political pressure exercise, and even though there are previous agreements with the Medical Chamber or others, suddenly the opinion of the Medical Chamber changes, and as they put it in their weekend announcement, they only use pressure to try to keep the general practitioners away from this new on-call system. GPs have been on the lookout, they are still on the lookout; so far they have paid less money, they are now able to pay more money; so far they have had to make phone calls or map, much more to deal with, now the National Rescue Service is at the best possible level on a fixed telephone line, which intelligently tries to recognize the caller's location [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] If you're calling from a phone number, you're trying to help. Honourable Congressman, [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] You made a political attack because you couldn't make any professional excuses. [[Applause and an intervention from the ruling parties: Yes! Gergely Harvesto intervenes. Move.]] (Dr. Lajos Szűcs in the notary seat) Replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai.)
u2023-02-27-124	I thank the Deputy Minister for his reply. With all due respect, my fellow Members, please take your seats so that the Member can respond in a worthy manner. Congressman, I'm asking you to accept the response to the interpellation. You have the floor. [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Yes!]]
u2023-02-27-125	Dear Secretary of State, [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Unlike you, I've been on watch for eight years, there's been a month of 15. [[Bence Rétvári: Now we only need one more! See how simple it is?! Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I don't need one now because I'm retired. [[Defiance in DK's ranks. Bence Rétvári: It's so easy!]] However, if you had answered my written question last month, where I asked for the data, this interpellation would probably not be born. You have written in three sentences the spectacular issues of the last month, but there is no way to conclude that this on-call really works. I believe that not only the Hungarian medical society, but also the professional organisations of the workers, have been ignored, because what you call conciliation has not been included in these very important legislation. [[Bence Rétvári: It's in! It's in!]] There's a mess you're not gonna be able to clean up. I believe that consulting doctors and workers is the solution, and that is what the shadow government will do. [[The president's ringing the bell. Bence of Rétvári: Patients heal with consultations! Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-02-27-126	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The congressman did not accept the Deputy Minister's reply. A decision will be taken in accordance with our adopted agenda on our sitting today. Dear Parliament, It's 6:46 p.m., and we've reached the end of the interpellation trial. We will now continue our work with decisions. Dear Parliament, In line with our adopted agenda, decisions are now being taken to accept the responses to the interpellations that have been made today. Ferenc Dávid, representative of DK, I/3006. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 96 votes in favour, 43 votes against and 6 abstentions. Imre Komjáthi, representative of MSZP, I/3017. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 107 votes in favour, 48 votes against and one abstention. Róbert Dudás, representative of Jobbik, I/3014. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 110 votes to 110, 48 votes against and one abstention. Foreman Novak, representative of our country, I/2954. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 112 votes in favour, 20 votes against and one abstention. Sándor Berki, representative of the Dialogue, I/3011. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 112 votes in favour, 48 votes against and one abstention. Lóránt Keresztes, representative of LMP, I/3013. No response to interpellation was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 112 votes in favour, 48 votes against and one abstention. [[18.50]] Zoltán Komáromi, representative of DK, I/307. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 114 votes to 114, 45 against, with one abstention. Dear Parliament, It follows in line with the 11/2022 on the establishment of committees, the election of members and officials of the Parliament. [[V. 2.]] A decision to amend a decision. S/3074 put forward by the President You can find out more about this on the website. I would like to ask Mr Winning Vinnai to present the content of the personal proposal put forward by the President. Mr. Messenger!
u2023-02-27-127	11/2022 on the establishment of committees, election of members and officials of the Parliament [[V. 2.]] OGY Decision No 1 is amended as follows: The National Assembly to the Committee of European Affairs dr. István Tiba, Fidesz, instead of Zoltán Bóna, Fidesz; to the Committee of Budgets Zsolt V. Németh, Fidesz, Gábor Törő, Fidesz; to the Committee of National Inclusion Zoltán Bóna, Fidesz, instead of dr. István Tiba, Fidesz; to the Committee of Welfare, Ference Varga, independent, elected as a member of the Committee. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption.
u2023-02-27-128	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept S/3074. Proposal 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the proposal by 163 votes in favour, no votes against, with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the decisions, and now we are going to proceed to the discussion of immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "When will it be enough? It's an address. It is for Congressman Gergely Arató to take the floor.
u2023-02-27-129	Thank you very much. Dear House, Prime Minister! You are a big fan of sports success, but you have now managed to set a record that none of us can be proud of, and none of us is happy about: this is the European record of inflation. In Hungary, food prices increased by 50 percent in December in a one-year comparison, including bread by 80 percent, eggs by almost 80 percent, butter and butter cream by 75 percent, and I could continue. Meanwhile, the European average is 18%, Prime Minister. The situation is similar with general inflation, because you always have the answer to that, so, the sanctions, well, these bad sanctions, that's why everything is. [[György Balla: That's right!]] But these are very specific sanctions if inflation is pushed only in Hungary, because according to January data, inflation was 26 percent in Hungary. This is more than two and a half times the European Union's average, and this inflation is not only decreasing, but it is also increasing in Hungary. The fact is that you lie to the Hungarians when you say that inflation is due to sanctions, for example, because in Poland this inflation is 16 percent, because you also said that anyone with a long border with Russia or close to Russia is in danger. It is harder to be closer than Poland, but the situation is similar in Romania, which has a long border with Ukraine, and there is 13,4 percent inflation, and I could continue. Mr. Prime Minister, No sanctions for inflation, no war inflation, orbán inflation. The citizens of my constituency are asking about Stone Mine and Kispest when it will be enough. When do you realize you can't handle the situation, you can't handle runaway inflation? When are you gonna resign? [[A round of applause for the opposition, a huddle in the government benches.]]
u2023-02-27-130	Dear Parliament, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán will answer the immediate question. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2023-02-27-131	Honourable Congressman, I have the impression that he even surprised his own faction. [[Laughing:]] With this demand. [[Fidesz benches.]] I am used to the fact that from Members who sat in your predecessor's party from the late 1980s, I am used to the fact that whatever bad things are happening in Hungary or in the world, sooner or later, the government will be responsible for the Prime Minister. A little joy in the wormhole: this was the case here in 1990, even during József Antall's time. I think to say that the Hungarian government is responsible for inflation, complete indiscretion and economic inadequacy. Obviously, inflation is due to the release of prices across Europe. The high price level is because Europe has decided to impose sanctions on Russia, since cheap energy comes from Russia. Since then, it has not arrived from there, and therefore the European Union must be given expensive energy. Since the price of Russian gas is also linked to the stock exchange, the stock market prices have gone up, so we too, who do not receive energy from the West, suffer the consequences. In addition, as I was lucky to say earlier, Hungary is a country with very large industrial capacities with a high energy demand. However, we do not have our own energy source. We are dependent on imports, and inflation in Hungary is more painful because of our high import exposure than in countries with lower exposure. The question is not that, it could be an academic economics debate. The question is, what do we do? What the Hungarian Government is doing, and I had the opportunity to present it to this House this afternoon. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-02-27-132	Thank you, Prime Minister. I'll give the floor to the congressman in a minute. Here you go.
u2023-02-27-133	Dear House, Prime Minister, there are still one or two industrial countries in the European Union. It seems to me that, in the past, the text was that those close to Ukraine have high inflation, and now the text is that inflation is high where industrial production is high. In Austria there is industry, there is 11.5 percent inflation. In Germany, which you believe has ceased, inflation is 9.2 percent, Sweden 9.6. Prime Minister! In that rejoinder, you made only weak excuses. Your government can't handle the inflation situation. In Hungary, inflation is so high, if you like, the price increases are so high because your government has engaged in bad economic policies and is pursuing bad economic policies. (Believe Dezső in the notary seat) Replaced by Sándor Szabó.) When are you going to admit that it has been spoiled and that you are thinking about what can be done to really lower prices in Hungary? [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2023-02-27-134	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2023-02-27-135	Dear fellow Member, I think the Hungarian government has a good economic policy. The foundation we're building on is the work-based economy. Compared to your governance, there are one million more jobs and working people in Hungary. That's how much more people live on work, and that's how much less on welfare. Even in the difficult period, such as 2022, where growth in the European Union was moderate, the growth of the Hungarian economy exceeded that moderate level, and there is a good chance that we will not be in recession this year, but that the Hungarian economy will grow. Economic policy's fine. Our energy policy must be adapted to the situation in which the entire European economy has been put into, I think, in a way that differs from your opinion, essentially because of sanctions. If sanctions were imposed today, inflation would be reduced by at least half in all countries across Europe in one moment. I think your assessment is unfair, and I feel your demand is excessive. [[Delight and applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[19.00]]
u2023-02-27-136	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Dávid Bedő, Ferenc Gelencsér, Szabolcs Szabó and Márton Tompos, representatives of the Momentum, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question. It's an address. Congressman Dávid Bedő has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-02-27-137	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, I have prepared a very simple math example for you today. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties. Bence Rétvári: There's nothing else I can do...]] Yeah, listen to him. You walk up to 100 people on the street and ask everyone to ask for an orange. Eighteen out of 100 people say yes, give me an orange. The remaining 82 won't answer you, ignore your absurd question, and walk away. So my question to you, Prime Minister, is how many percent of people want oranges. [[Peter Cseresnyés: 52! Defiance and applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2023-02-27-138	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2023-02-27-139	I welcome you in my office to discuss all such childish questions. [[Delight and applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-02-27-140	Thank you very much, Prime Minister, for your reply. You have a rejoinder, Congressman.
u2023-02-27-141	Thank you. As always, the Prime Minister is funny. [[Eszter Debate: Like you!]] But the more perceptive ones have probably figured out that this story isn't really about oranges, it's about your lying propaganda. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Billions of forints were spent on their current kamukonsultation, completed by a total of 1.4 million Hungarian citizens, about 18 percent of voters. [[Bence Rétvári: How many votes did they vote for you?]] Yet, on billboards all over the country, 97 percent of Hungarians said no to sanctions. [[First of Novak: Count the dollars as well.]] Billions of forints! They lie all the time with an unscrupulous face, then bang their boobs to ask the Hungarians. While it is obvious that you are not interested in the opinion of the Hungarians. [[Intercoms, including Bence Rétvári: The Momentum! The president's ringing the bell.]] But it is not enough to advertise their lies out of billions, it is not enough to shout loudly everywhere that the Hungarians do not ask for sanctions, because you are going out to Brussels and voting in favour of the tenth sanction package. But in my interpretation, there are two options...
u2023-02-27-142	Congressman, I'm so sorry, your time limit is up. [[Bence Rétvári: Your time is up in a minute. Math!]]
u2023-02-27-143	... either acts contrary to the wishes of the majority of Hungarians, or admits that the whole consultation and propaganda on sanctions are a great lie. What is the truth, Prime Minister? [[A round of applause from Momentum.]]
u2023-02-27-144	I'm sorry. Prime Minister, you have the floor for rejoinder. Here you go.
u2023-02-27-145	I'm obviously slowing down because of my age, but wasn't that about the price of oranges? [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] So, if I understand it correctly, this is not the case, it is the national consultation. More than a million people participated in the national consultation. We respectfully thank you for taking part in the consultation, on important issues the Hungarian Government has similar sanctions [[Sic!]] It will continue to organize in the future. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-02-27-146	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question with the title of "Actual issues." Congressman, you have the floor.
u2023-02-27-147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister, I'd like to start with numbers from the Central Statistical Office. In January prices increased by 25,7 percent compared to the previous year. Pays, pensions are worth so much less, but what I think, in this regard, concerns the livelihood of everyday people, is that, by transforming the overhead reduction, in a sense, whatever they have said so far, Prime Minister, according to KSH data, domestic energy has increased by 52,4 percent, including the price of fixed gas by 88,6, firewood by 58, electricity by 27,7. What affects people, whether they want to or not, is the 44 percent increase in food prices, and I don't list the 80-70 percent increase in basic foods in the last year. The Prime Minister says we should talk about what can be done. Our leader has made a suggestion, and I would like to ask the Prime Minister's personal position: have you seen a chance to make any real progress in this area? We say that in such a case, price caps, official prices for food can and should be maintained temporarily, and that we believe that other products should be extended. But that is only true, Prime Minister, if you are willing to give up Europe's biggest taxation and the 27 percent VAT and the 4.1 percent retail tax on each kilo of bread, with which the state will take back one third, even in such a case, the state is willing to give up this. And then it can be extended to additional products, and indeed, as long as inflation is so high, it should be maintained for the benefit of our fellow countrymen, who, believe me, are still having a problem in the millions of scale to go into the store and what they can buy or what they can't buy there at all. I look forward to your reply, Prime Minister.
u2023-02-27-148	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2023-02-27-149	Thank you for asking, Congressman. If I understand correctly, you say that energy prices have increased in addition to the impact of the reduction in overhead costs; if I understand correctly, there is a debate between us on the scale, but perhaps not on the substance. Imagine what would happen if there weren't a policy for reducing the rent. For once, those who criticize us, calculate that if there were no reduction in the rent, if there were no support until the average consumption, then what would the budget of a Hungarian family look like? How many, how many hundreds of thousands or millions of families would have been ruined because these energy prices are simply unpayable. If the government did not support energy consumption by average consumption, Hungary would face the worst social disaster. Therefore, I think it is worthy, regardless of party affiliation, that in such a difficult situation, the government does not want to give up on those people, the families who have finally moved from insecurity to middle class status in the last ten or so years, because they would be the ones who would fall back there first. So I think that the reduction of the rent is a good system of institutions, a good system of instruments, should not be criticised, but rather strengthened. As far as price caps are concerned, I would like to reiterate that price caps cannot be removed until inflation has started to decline noticeably and encouragingly in the longer term. In order to extract it from new products, we can talk about it, and I would recommend caution. And what we have learned about VAT cuts is that I cannot support this proposal, that if we reduce VAT, then the resulting savings will not go to voters or buyers in the form of price reductions, but to traders in principle, and the aim is not to support them, although we also recognise their work. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-02-27-150	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply, and I give the floor to the Member in return. Here you go.
u2023-02-27-151	Prime Minister, it's very simple: I said what happened. Last summer, you stopped the existing reduction in the overhead costs. What I'm telling you, you can't argue with him because it's the numbers of the KSH. So average consumption has been brought in, ladies and gentlemen, it is quite simple, if the same rules were the same as last year, then the price of gas would not have increased by 88 percent for the population, but by zero. But you've changed the rules of the reduction, and thanks to that, people pay 88 percent more for gas than they did a year ago. That's what this song means. [[Dr. István Nagy: Industry, industry! Gergely Arató: KSH residential data. István Szilárd Németh: You're lying!]] Prime Minister! [[Intercoms in the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2023-02-27-152	Go on, Congressman.
u2023-02-27-153	Former Secretary of State is yelling here that I'm lying, I can't lie, because I'm reading you the data of the KSH, Mr. Németh. [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing party: You're wrong!]] On the other hand, as regards the VAT reduction, Prime Minister, please reconsider what you said, because we would ask for and demand that you give up VAT on products subject to the public authority's price. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] At the official priced product, Prime Minister, the trader can't swallow the VAT because it's official priced...
u2023-02-27-154	Mr Congressman, thank you very much for having a one-minute time frame.
u2023-02-27-155	... butyoucan give people 30 percent cheaper food. Thank you so much for listening.
u2023-02-27-156	Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. Here you go. [[19.10]]
u2023-02-27-157	It's a little humiliating, but not just for me, but for you, too, I think it's a question of fact. A sensible debate is not about white, six is about six, and seven is about seven, but about what conclusions can be drawn from it and what is worth doing. In my sillabus, from which I work, it appears and the government is at the base of this knowledge that 67 percent of households pay for electricity and 78 percent only for gas. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: No!]] That's the exact opposite of what you're saying. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó intervenes.]] No, it's the exact opposite. I claim that the policy of reducing the costs has been maintained and that, after protecting the families, 78 percent of the families will only have reduced gas prices and 67 percent will only pay for reduced electricity prices and that is right. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-02-27-158	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Brenner Koloman, László György Lukács and Dániel Z. Kárpát, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask Mr. Prime Minister an immediate question about this. It's an address. Mr László György Lukács has the floor.
u2023-02-27-159	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister, I don't know about you, but shopping is still very difficult, and it's almost impossible to find products, sugar, milk or even chicken breasts at the price where you fixed them. Thousands of shoppers experience this in shops, find empty UHT milk shelves, sugar and oil shelves. This is clear, and I think it shows you that the communist-style price-stops and price caps have caused a shortage economy. We're almost there, like in the curse, that it's good to have an acquaintance of a shopkeeper or bartender who saves him from these products. Or you could say that if there were three wishes from the reputable or dear show, Uncle Tibi, then the children would be asking for sugar or milk, as they were asking for bananas on this show as a wish from Uncle Tibi. It is also clear that, in return, these pricestops, price caps, have resulted in the price of other products, essentially having an impact on inflation. It is clear, therefore, that the price stop and the price cap were the ones that fired inflation. It is also apparent, Prime Minister, that while the multinationals were struggling with this pricing, the most difficult situation was the smallest businesses, the smallest shopkeepers, who had nowhere to back off from this, and now they are counting their losses. You have achieved that these are the smallest businesses, which, according to the Jobbik-Conservatives, are the biggest support for the Hungarian economy, and they are in the most difficult situation. Otherwise, it is not unusual for you to use such communist means in some way. We remember the centralisations and nationalisations that have been done over the past period, often at the expense of local governments, water utilities or even the maintenance of schools, they believe in central governance. In fact, the new concept of national or state fires also points in this direction. But to come to the essential question, Prime Minister, will you not lead it out, or if you do not lead it out, how long do you intend to keep these communist-style price caps and price-stops? [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2023-02-27-160	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2023-02-27-161	Your comment reminds us of what we talked about earlier today, when the situation in a economy comes up when the state has to intervene deeper than the normal regulatory role. That's a legitimate question. In general, the good thing is that the economy can operate according to its own logic, and the state strives to intervene only and where, preferably in a limited way, where it is absolutely necessary. I believe that there are questions that economic operators can answer better than the state or the government at all times, even if we are in government. So I certainly do not consider the policy of intervention as a general rule. But it is also true that there are conditions and cases where intervention is inevitable, and if you are already interfering, you cannot intervene in a normative way, the worse the situation, the more specific and targeted you need to intervene. That's what the government did: intervened. There is a division of views about what you did right and what the consequences were. I don't share your point of view. You say that our actions have led to a shortage. It is true that the trader tries because he is also human and makes a living on money to defend himself against such interventions. In such cases, auxiliary rules must be made to force traders to keep certain products in the store. These measures have been taken, and I do not see the situation as serious as you have described here; especially as it refers to the state of absence in the curse. I don't know, it's because of his youth, but believe me, it wasn't like that. In the curse, the shortage was not like what you see now. As far as convenience stores are concerned, and there is the government, understanding and knowing what you said that they are more vulnerable and vulnerable, in 2023 you will give 8 billion HUF operating support to small shops that have difficulty with the price cap. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-02-27-162	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2023-02-27-163	Mr. Prime Minister, We believe that in a normal country there is no room for such measures for so long. The thing is, you guys introduced these price caps, price-stops before the war, when the prices seemed to rise. It is certain that if there is an opportunity for the state to intervene in some way, it will be possible for a short time, but the way in which you intervened is indeed a communist, a real old-fashioned intervention in economic life, which is not necessary. In a normal country, governments do not hit the smallest traders with price caps, in a normal country they effectively protect the population against food price increases in Europe's record, and in a normal country there is no shortage economy, Prime Minister. Believe me, many of these products are a real challenge to find the right ones. It is time for them to focus on the solution and for the smallest businesses to really find help in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2023-02-27-164	Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2023-02-27-165	What I consider worthy of further consideration from the Member's words is how long it is worth to maintain these measures. Because I agree with what you said: it would not be good for this to become a permanent practice and be integrated into the toolbox of economic policy. So the question is how long. Our answer is that, after we believe that the measures needed to reduce inflation have been taken, if you like, the antidote has been introduced into the body and we expect that there will be visible signs of this in the coming months, so our answer is that once inflation is firmly on a permanent downward path, price caps can be removed. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-02-27-166	Thank you very much, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, President Novak, representative of Mi Hazank, wants to ask the Minister of Defence an immediate question:. Are you willing to put an end to the training of the Hungarian Defence Forces? It's an address. Because of Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. Tamás Vargha has given him the right to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2023-02-27-167	Thank you, Mr President, but I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to explain himself personally.
u2023-02-27-168	I would like to inform the Member that the Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, President Novak, representative of Mi Hazank, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: -Do you support the proposals for a solution to the Hungarian Movement? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári was entitled to respond. I ask you to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister himself for an answer.
u2023-02-27-169	Thank you, Mr. President, but I'd like to wait for the Minister.
u2023-02-27-170	I would like to inform you that the Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, László Toroczkai, representative of Mi Hazank, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What is there money for, Prime Minister? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-02-27-171	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, It seems that the government always has the money to support the richest global corporations with the money of Hungarian taxpayers. This is what we can now see in the case of the world's largest battery manufacturer, Chinese CATL, when the government gives 320 billion forints to this giant company. But this was seen in the case of the US BlackRock, when, at the opening of the office in Budapest in 2017, the government gave 280 million HUF as support to the world's largest trustee, which has over ten trillion US dollars. This giant multi-company must have needed the money of Hungarian employees, the Hungarian SME sector. At the same time, the current government, together with the former Balliberal governments, has built up a smearing system which, in turn, takes away the last penny for the Hungarian man, the Hungarian entrepreneur, the Hungarian worker, and the Hungarian pensioner. [[19.20]] This is the system that has now been completed in the enforcement mafia case, and it is a system that has been systematically built for 30-35 years, which is about the fact that in Hungary a simple parking ticket can be a debt of up to hundreds of thousands of forints, in the end you can lose it, say, your house or you can lose your car, and in this system we see that at the end there are executives, who are ruthlessly taking away the laws, not following the rules, even more than 33 percent of their income, taking away the family allowance, and the bank is spreading its hands. My question to Prime Minister is what the Government has done, what the Prime Minister has done or what the Government has created by the Prime Minister or the Government led by the Prime Minister, I must look at the name of this Supervisory Authority for Regulatory Activities; so what it has done to investigate the abuses of this executive-mafia and to ask the Prime Minister for a straight answer to the question of the Hungarian Movement, so that implementation is non-profit in Hungary at last, let this Mafia system cease. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-02-27-172	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go.
u2023-02-27-173	Thank you very much. As regards the restructuring of the implementation system, we welcome any proposals and will consider them in substance. If you'll allow me, it's more serious than saying it's a spell or a charm all of a sudden. But if you have such a suggestion for your party, I ask you to come to us with confidence, and the Minister of Justice will examine you, and we will give you a fair answer to whether or not we can grind you in a mill. As far as subsidies are concerned, I am obliged to say more than once that the support for large foreign investments in Hungary, which takes place in a transparent system, is part of the current budget, the amount that we are spending on this is significantly lower than the amount that we are spending on helping Hungarian, basically small and medium-sized enterprises. This is Hungary, so Hungarian businesses have priority. And where Hungarian businesses are able to deliver and serve the Hungarian economy world-class, we do not really need foreigners there. That is why there are also areas where we simply bought them out, let's just say that we bought back what was previously in national hands, and now it is in Hungarian state control again. But the other side of the truth or the coin is that we need such investment, and for these investments there is competition. So it doesn't look like it's coming from the head of some of my fellow Members here, and I see that the Hungarian government is calling someone, and then the whole thing just comes here with a big investment. This is done by making big companies compete with countries in terms of which country they are going to go to. This is true for battery companies, but for automotive companies, for any economic, basically industrial investment. So, in fact, companies are not looking for a place to live, but countries want to, especially undercapitalised countries like Hungary, and we are putting together all kinds of packages for them from employment to financial support to choose us from among the many rivals rather than other countries. I think that Hungary should play well in this race. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-27-174	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I'll give you the floor in return. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2023-02-27-175	Prime Minister, I'll take that opportunity right away, and then let's just say our proposals here. So, on the one hand, the implementation should be non-profit, as it has already been in Hungary, and in many countries of Europe it is currently non-profit, and then it is not possible for such an enforcement mafia to develop. On the other hand, my request to the Prime Minister is to help and in no way hinder the detection of this executive mafia case. So, if you're a pro-government politician or anyone involved in this case, it should go to jail or even be arrested in advance, even if it is the Secretary of State. On the other hand, foreign exchange lenders should be really helped, as there are still those who, for a lifetime, are often their children, either because they are guaranteed for their parents' foreign exchange credit, are still being persecuted for life by the enforcement and the system, while in other countries, even Western countries, and there are five years of limitation in enforcement cases. Here Hungarian families were simply driven away from Hungary because of this system. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-02-27-176	Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2023-02-27-177	As I understand it, the congressman was talking about two different things. The first is how we're dealing with former foreign exchange credentials now. After not giving me the help of telling me in the title of the question what we're going to talk about, I'm forced to rely on my memories now, and I hope I'm not wrong, and I'm not wrong at all, but if I remember correctly, it was 1.1 million, so 1 million 100 thousand contracts that were a foreign exchange loan contract. This problem had to be solved. I can't answer your question about how much we've gotten out of this, but I think it's almost all of it or the overwhelming majority of it. That doesn't mean they could all stay, and the next time, we'll be happy to discuss it with you in substance and depth, how many of them are left, what's their fate, and what we can do to help. You can count on us for that. As far as compliance with the law is concerned, it doesn't matter whether someone is a minister or a secretary of state, Prime Minister Horribile dictu, the laws must be observed by everyone. [[Depreciation in opposition ranks. Applause in the pro-government ranks]]
u2023-02-27-178	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Rebecca Szabó, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Mr Prime Minister, why are you endangering the future of our children? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2023-02-27-179	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Mr. Prime Minister, You say on the road and on the road how important it is for you to protect your family and children. [[Noise in the ranks of the governing parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] The reality is, however, that you don't give a damn about the future of our children, because you're willing to sacrifice our waters and agricultural land, throw them away to foreign multinationals, so that you and your business partners can fill your pockets. Yet, the safety of our children is not the safety of environmental battery factories, but water and soil. Because of your current great power fever, thousands of acres of land are being destroyed in our country. Only recently, due to the battery factory near Debrecen, the highest quality of agricultural land was sacrificed, which, by the way, is in fact contrary to the soil protection law. In addition, the battery companies also want to increase the country's water consumption by one tenth, Prime Minister, which represents an additional one million people's water demand in total, while there is also a climate crisis in Hungary, the groundwater level of the Great Plain is constantly falling, drought is getting worse. If the Chinese battery factory is built, Debrecen and its surroundings will simply dry out. And I don't know, you know, because of the battery company in Komárom, they want to use the karst water in Tata. This is the highest quality water you want to waste for industrial purposes. Prime Minister, with all due respect, why are you cementing the best Hungarian soils? Why are they deliberately drying out half the country, sacrificing our drinking water? Why are they endangering our water resources, including food production and the natural environment? Why not try to protect these waters with effective measures? And with all due respect, I'm asking you to answer my question for the sake of mothers and fathers who are worried about the future of our children, instead of brizzling and turfing. Thank you. [[Noise, uproar in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-02-27-180	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Prime Minister, please.
u2023-02-27-181	I'm just saying that you've banned me from the most important questions. [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]] , but seriously: every investment in Hungary has one order. An investment can be created in Hungary, whether it is a factory or not, if the legislation in force is complied with. These legislation also includes environmental and safety requirements. In addition, rules apply to the issue of the licence, rules apply to the investment in construction and operation. And I can tell you with the utmost confidence and good conscience that all such rules must and will be enforced by the public administration with investors. So I think that, as you say, the parents can expect the Hungarian state to be as strict as possible at all investments in the interests of their children, and, in the case of Hungary, it is sometimes subject to stricter rules than European rules, I believe that Hungary will meet this requirement today. As far as batteries are concerned, because I see that this has become such a hit theme, it is that the whole European and even the world's automotive industry will be transformed and electric cars will be produced. The question is where these electric cars, including all their important components, will be manufactured. [[19.30]] Where these factories will be built, there will be jobs. Today, in Hungary, hundreds of thousands of families live in the automotive industry. If Hungary cannot play a role in the production of electric cars, these hundreds of thousands of people will lose their jobs, because the factories of old-type cars will be demolished. It is therefore necessary to comply with the rules, which precedes everything, but also to make rational decisions from an industrial policy point of view. Support for vehicle manufacturing is such a decision. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-27-182	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I'll give you the floor in return. Congresswoman, please.
u2023-02-27-183	Mr. Prime Minister, On the one hand, it is completely absurd that in a country this size, the most polluting industry of all electromobility [[Grumble in the ranks of Fidesz.]] They want to bring the battery production here in this amount. There's gonna be a lot of, too many battery companies in this country, and they're gonna use a lot of electricity, land and water. Moreover, it is very bad news that you may not have been informed, but the fact is that the environmental authorities in Hungary have been roughly dismantled in your last 13 years. For example, if you look at the Samsung battery factory in Göd, which has already been operating, how many violations of the rules have been brought out of disaster control, they cannot punish them, they have found toxic solvents in the groundwater. It would also be interesting to see how you can allow the Tata karst water base to be used as industrial water for battery production. Prime Minister! Please look into this, because you may accidentally sacrifice the water resources of this country behind your back and destroy our natural resources. He did not mention this in his speech before the agenda, but believe me that natural resources are also of strategic importance, not just economic growth and the money you hope to bring here with the battery companies. [[A round of applause in the dialogue.]]
u2023-02-27-184	Congresswoman, thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2023-02-27-185	Dear fellow Member, While I am concerned about natural resources, I think I share your position, yet I am forced to consider what you have said here quite simply a rumor. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: That's right!]] What you're saying is simply not true. Therefore, no one in Hungary can or may not endanger water resources; no industrial investment can be made, which would not be subject to clear and clear rules. That you want to exclude certain activities or production directions from the future of the Hungarian industry, and I do not consider it a sensible position, given that, from the green point of view, Germany is going to build 14 battery factories in the near future. The largest battery plant in Europe is not built in Hungary, but in Poland. In Poland there are 60 companies, huge companies that stand up for this industry. Do the Poles want to destroy their own country? Are the Germans famous for their precision going to destroy the German economy? Is that what you're saying? So I think this kind of attitude is nothing more than spreading rumors. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-27-186	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, representative of LMP [[There's a grumble and a blur in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] You would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What do you think of this, Prime Minister?" It's an address. [[Intercom from Fidesz: Doctor! Bence Rétvári: Doctor, let's hear it. The president's ringing the bell.]] Congressman Antal Csárdi has the floor.
u2023-02-27-187	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. Prime Minister, Bad news, we'll pick up where you left off. You have classified the LMP's protest against the installed battery production capacities as a fight against foreign investments. That is not true, Prime Minister. But what does your battery-making strategy mean? A significant part of the world's battery production goes here, the batteries go there, and the environmental load stays here in our country. What am I talking about? Valuable land is sacrificed in order for these companies to settle here. You, Prime Minister, have said that you will never allow the land of Hungary to fall into foreign hands. What do we call building a battery factory on a good quality agricultural land? What else does the battery strategy mean? Waste of our water reserves. It is known that Komárom, as has already been said, must provide drinking water from the neighbouring area because Komárom's natural water supply is consumed by the battery plant that operates there. [[Gábor Bányai: The Danube? Are you talking about the Danube? Defiance in the ranks of Fidesz.]] Direct pollution. The Samsung factory in Göd was fined 17 times by the end of last year. True, the current authority has always been very careful to ensure that the fine is not priceless, and it should not be painful for this company, which can therefore be planned with HUF 760 billion in revenue. Not least, EU rules say that manufactured batteries and their waste should be treated where they were produced. Mr. Prime Minister, When can the Hungarian nation expect future generations to be taken into account in the planning of economic policy?
u2023-02-27-188	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán to reply. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2023-02-27-189	I think I understand what you're saying, and I agree with you on the matter of soil protection. So the heart hurts when you see that, by the way, agricultural land is withdrawn from cultivation not only for industrial investment but also for the development of residential areas and is used for other purposes. No one's happy about that at all. A villager like me is the least of it. So that's not a good thing. At the same time, it is also obvious that roads must be built somewhere, railways must be built somewhere, factories must be put somewhere. So the question is not which foot to stand on, but how to keep our balance. So everything that can be protected must not be sacrificed unnecessarily, but everything that Hungary needs must be done in terms of road, railway and factory construction. If you had said that if you had come to this conclusion, even as a criticism to the government, that the government should therefore be more interested in making more of a brownfield investor, i.e. a new industrial investment in previously withdrawn areas than a greenfield investment, I would have been able to agree with you. We're working on it. It's not that simple. Now we're going to put in a bill, which, by the way, is trying to create a better ratio than before. So I share an important part of your theory. What I don't share is battery obsession. Today, battery factories operate in France, Spain, Italy, Poland, Great Britain, the Netherlands and Sweden, and as far as we know, half of the 27 EU Member States will have a factory that will produce lithium-ion batteries specifically and all European countries except Malta and Cyprus will in some way participate as producers in this value chain. This is the European panorama. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-27-190	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2023-02-27-191	Mr. Prime Minister, The basic question is, after all, the environmental conditions under which such factories are set up. At the moment, as a result of climate change, the Carpathian Basin is drying out. And no, it's not the Orbán government's fault. [[Defiance and applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]] But it's true. Compared to that, I think the responsibility is for the Orbán government to notice that... [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] [[Defiance and applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]] But it's true. Compared to that, I think the responsibility is for the Orbán government to notice that... (Continuous noise. The president's ringing. The responsibility lies with the Orbán government to see if... (Development and applause in the ranks of the governing parties.)
u2023-02-27-192	Go on, Congressman.
u2023-02-27-193	So I'll tell you the third time, although I can see that your faction doesn't like it. [[Erik Bánki: Yes, very!]] The responsibility lies with the Orbán government. [[An intervention from the Fidesz ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] To pay attention to the dwindling Carpathian Basin, to take responsibility for ensuring that these battery companies do not cause environmental pressures here, because it is not in the interest of the future generation. It is possible to pursue an economic policy that will make Hungary successful, but this education would require billions of dollars.
u2023-02-27-194	Thank you, Congressman, time's up. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2023-02-27-195	As strange as it may seem, I agree with you on the point. Especially when it's not our fault to dry the Carpathian Basin. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] But if we turn this into a serious matter, the fact is that this responsibility is a shared responsibility, it still exists and it will also burden the next governments. There are changes in the world, in the climate, the Carpathian Basin will not remain the way we want it to be. We need serious things here, serious policies. However, I would like to distinguish between the rumors and the legitimate fear of people. [[19.40]] So I think that the justified fear of people needs a clear, straight answer, and we will give it. I can't believe we're drying out the Carpathian Basin. It's not true that we use enough water to destroy those habitats. It is not true that the investor will release pollution around the neck of Hungary that will make the lives of the people living there impossible, all of which are not true. At the same time, people expect and are right to receive a clear, straight answer to each of their fears and reservations in this regard. And it is the duty of the Hungarian state to give these answers, and we will continue to do so calmly and calmly. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-02-27-196	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Attila Barcza, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: what is expected overseas in exchange for rolling dollars? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-02-27-197	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Dear House, In addition to the historic electoral defeat of the US dollar left in April, 2022 has brought the biggest party financing scandal in Hungary since the regime change. As is already known to everyone, the dollar left received nearly HUF 4 billion for its election campaign overseas. At the end of August, Péter Márki-Zay himself, a fallen left-wing prime minister, exposed the dollar left-hand side: he admitted that they had received billions from the United States for the election campaign. It became clear, then, that the dollar left in the campaign was not his own control, but he spoke and acted in the best interests of the circle from whom these dollars, let us say, rolled to you. We cannot stress how unheard of and unacceptable it is that foreign money was used to influence our country's democratic election. Alien powers intervened in the Hungarian elections, national sovereignty, and for this, any incredible Hungarian left-wing parties, politicians and a complete dollar media are financed with serious amounts. We know that Péter Márki-Zay has never been independent in political life, has always functioned as the side rib of Ferenc Gyurcsány, and is singing in order from the music of his boss. The left led by Ferenc Gyurcsány and the dollar media behind it, some of whom are still present here in the room, continue to do their best, as usual, to blur the case: clouding, sniffing, but, as in the case of countless other occupations, they fail to do so. Facts are stubborn things. The governing parties have repeatedly called on the dollar-left politicians to admit what they know about the dollars that roll from abroad into our country. Dear Minister, The question remains, what is expected overseas in exchange for rolling dollars? Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-02-27-198	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2023-02-27-199	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The question was what would be expected of opposition parties by those who were able to give this extremely diverse, interesting opposition alliance $4 billion in the election campaign and election campaign. We could say what we saw in Parliament this afternoon, but for that kind of money, you can expect more than that, so that's not a good enough argument. [[Gergely Arató: Discuss with the Marquis-Zay... you tell us this in vain...]] It is certain that, from the moment such money is offered and this money is accepted, other advice, requests, and instructions must be given and accepted. That is why we can say that there is no sovereign opposition in Hungary today, in violation of the principles of the unchanged party financing regime for 32 years, serious billions of dollars were adopted from abroad in an election campaign. The first and most important thing is that everyone can see clearly in this truly 32-year-old, unprecedented party financing scandal. To this end, an investigation is under way, also known in the Committee on National Security. To this end, after the elections, the State Audit Office will continue to examine the management of all parties each year in accordance with the law, and we hope that, as a result of these investigations, we can also clearly see who the principals were, who not only transferred these significant amounts, but who added this together in order to achieve a change of government in Hungary. What foreign interest and foreign power was it that didn't spend 4 billion forints of money in order to finance a coalition, which is apparently completely unfit for government in all respects, extending from the far right to the far left? Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-02-27-200	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I'll give you the floor in return, Congressman. Here you go.
u2023-02-27-201	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Thank you for your answer, but I think that the subject, and as you have explained in your reply, is very worrying. It is clear that the dollar left has sold Hungary's interests to foreign authorities. There's a disturbance on the left. Péter Márki-Zay, as has been the case, is talking about money coming from abroad. Recently, he claimed that they could not account for all campaign costs, and that several accounts and contracts were missing. A few days later, however, he said that all accounts had been sent to the State Audit Office. Marqui-Zay and the left should heed Mark Twain's words that if you're always telling the truth, you don't have to remember anything. Dear Minister, I trust that this case will be revealed in every respect. [[Gergely Harvesto: We too!]] Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-02-27-202	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2023-02-27-203	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Indeed, the fact is that although we do not yet know who actually gave us this money, because so far we have encountered only the usual lies from the opposition, it is clear that the Democratic Coalition was involved in the case. [[Deterioration in the benches of the ruling parties.]] I mean, there's a couple whose genetics is a lie. [[Gergely Harvester: Ugh! That's a strong argument.]] But one, even if my fellow Member Arató doesn't like it [[Gergely Harvesto: Isn't that right...]] We know for a fact that whoever was behind this huge $4 billion grant was the worst investment in their lives. Making such a campaign out of that kind of money is certainly a very, very bad achievement, so we can trust that Hungary and everyone who is proud of the sovereignty of this country have no donor who is willing to give these parties a similar amount of money, so the defence of the sovereignty of the country can be strengthened by the weakness of the opposition. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-02-27-204	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Hajnalka Juhász, representative of KDNP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. Why does the pro-war Left represent foreign interests? It's an address. Due to Mr. Minister's absence, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I ask Congresswoman, she accepts the person who is responding.
u2023-02-27-205	Thank you, yes.
u2023-02-27-206	You have the floor.
u2023-02-27-207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, For more than a year, the war has been going on in our neighborhood, which has claimed hundreds of thousands of victims, families have torn apart, and has pushed Europe into a downward spiral that we have not seen for many years. Brussels will only be able to review the failed sanctions policy if it puts the interests of Europeans first over global power interests. The ruling party is pro-peace and will do everything to ensure an immediate ceasefire, but as the Prime Minister said today, there is no national agreement because the left is pro-war and the ruling party is pro-peace war and peace. [[Gergely Harvesto: How beautiful!]] In Brussels and in Hungary, the left has a war rhetoric; he stands for the transport of weapons; he stands for new sanctions and argues for them. [[Gergely Harvesto: You voted...]] to participate actively in military training. Bence Tordai also supported the European Parliament's resolution on the newer and more arms transport. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] In addition, Péter Márki-Zay, Gergely Christmas, your shadow-president, Klára Dobrev, demands sanctions and arms transport. This is done by the war-inspiring left-wing opposition with hundreds of thousands of Russian-Ukrainian citizens dying, and we have victims of Transcarpathians in Hungary. [[19.50]] Now is the time to say that the left is pro-war, and I think the time has come when the absence of this national unity is clear. The majority of Hungarians are pro-peace and stand by us to represent a humane policy. It is important to see this, and it is also important to see whose order our left-wing opposition can be pro-war. Therefore, I ask with great respect the Secretary of State: why does the pro-war left represent foreign interests? [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-27-208	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
u2023-02-27-209	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, The building of this Parliament was inaugurated in 1904, and perhaps June-July 1914 and September-October 1939 were the most important periods of decisions in the past 120 years. In 1914 Hungary did not start on the road of a rapid war, a local conflict, at the beginning of a local, rapid war, because it was not in this Chamber that Hungary, the Kingdom of Hungary, decided to take part in the war against Serbia, but there was a delegation room where the ambassadors of the Austrian and Hungarian delegations met, and we were not the ones who could decide. [[Gergely Harvester: That's not true!]] I don't know if we're going to go into that war or not. We Hungarians were against it, but our sovereignty lacked the part we could have decided on; the Delegation Room is still a symbol of this. We didn't want to get into one of those wars at any cost, but, since they made this decision in Vienna, Hungary was dragged into it. [[Gergely Arató: In Vienna or in the Delegation Room?]] 660 thousand of our countrymen died as soldiers in the First World War, with some consequence of the Second World War, in which 950,000 of our countrymen died. World War I brought the idea of communism, and as a result, Nazism also started its European conquering journey, causing great suffering in many countries. Both wars began with the end of the war by the time the autumn leaves fell. Even in World War II, it was said that Blitzkrieg would start a rapid war, which would be over quickly, with few casualties, and both became world burns, millions and tens of millions died in these wars. We Hungarians would have made the right decision if we could have made our own decision to stay out of the war. [[Gergely Arató: We made the decision to join Hitler on our own. Do you deny that, too? A statement from the opposition: Shame and shame in this House!]] But still others were able to force their will upon us. Today, in this Parliamentary Chamber, we can decide on our own position regarding the war that is taking place next to us. We, the representatives of Fidesz-KDNP, have clearly said that we will not make any decision that will bring Hungary closer to the war. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit. Intercoms from the opposition.]] 'Cause it's XX. In the first century, everyone in this Chamber had to learn that we can only take the view of the war that we are missing out on the war. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-27-210	Thank you. Dear Parliament, In return, I'll give the floor to the congresswoman in a minute.
u2023-02-27-211	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. We all see that Europe is increasingly drifting towards the war, which is demanding more and more sacrifices. Our most important task is to keep Hungary out of this war. I ask the Hungarian voters to look carefully at the pro-war left. [[Gergely Arató: Eyes on the left!]] Because we pro-government must do everything in our power not to drift into war. [[There's a grumble in opposition lines.]] They could put us at risk of war, and the only measure the left did not support was the protection of families or the protection of jobs against sanctioned inflation. Let us never forget that the final battle in history has always been won by the pro-peaceists, and the Hungarian government is on the side of peace. Let us not forget that, in the interests of national unity, we should serve peace, and if we consider that the Vatican stands up for us internationally, it is extremely important, but how great it would be if our opposition, the left, were to be pro-peace at home. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-27-212	Dear Parliament, The Deputy Minister shall be rejoined. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-02-27-213	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, The Hungarian left, on the other hand, serves the last cent of the $4 billion worth of millions of dollars they received, as Ferenc Gyurcsány told us why Hungary should join the war. [[Gergely Harvestó: He didn't say anything!]] Péter Márki-Zay said that if the others go, we have to go too. The rest of you, you're all leaving. The others are all going now, and if the Hungarians had listened to him, the Hungarians should go now, because everyone around us is going. Gergely Christmas also voted for the war. András Fekete-Győr also made a pro-war declaration. Bence Tordai was in such a rush that he made pro-war statements even after the elections. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] Dániel Berg, Momentum, also, and Katalin Cseh does nothing else. [[Intercoms. The president's ringing the bell.]] As in Brussels and Budapest, he constantly argues for drifting into war. There may be many issues that some take lightly, but the question of war or peace cannot be treated as a joke. In this war people are dying, unfortunately Hungarian people in Transcarpathia too. It is our responsibility to do everything in our power to ensure that Hungarians never die in war again. [[Gergely Harvesto: Shame on you! The president's ringing again.]] I would like to quote to you the sentence of Pope Francis on the one-year anniversary of the war, and also a reflection of conscience for all politicians:.. Did we do everything we could to make peace come as soon as possible? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-27-214	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the immediate questioning. With these questions, the Parliament will continue its work under the leadership of Vice-President János Latorcai. I'm ordering a two-minute recess. Two minutes, and then we'll get back to work. (Recess: 19.56-20.00) President: Dr. János Latorcai Note: Dr. Winner Vinnai and Sándor Szabó)
u2023-02-27-215	Ladies and gentlemen, We'd like to get back to work. With all due respect, I would ask those who are leaving the Chamber now to do so as far as possible so that we can continue our work. Here's the question. Dear Parliament, Member Balázs Barkóczi, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister for Regional Development a question. It's an address. Mr Balázs Barkóczi has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-02-27-216	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, It was clear last December that you were bluffing when you said that we could get suspended EU funds in January this year. This has now been confirmed, as not only the suspended money is not coming, but the European Commission has envisaged that Hungarian students and teachers can be excluded from Erasmus + and Horizon Europe. We might think that at least now, in this situation, they will do everything to ensure that the cost of your failed policy is not paid by the students and the instructors, but it is not. Minister Navracsics has told us that they have no intention of excluding government officials from curatoriums but only ministers and secretary of state. In other words, the Deputy State Secretarys, the Members of Parliament and the Mayors will remain in the Curatoriums for millions of HUF a month's salary. Thus, the withdrawal of ministers is a hoax. There is nothing to see here, the composition of the university foundations continues to evolve according to the convenience of the Fidesz government, only one loyal party soldier is replaced by another. It doesn't give universities their freedom back, they're going to be transformed into a cadre. And we are living with the suspicion that you are suggesting that the European Commission will only be disturbed by conflicts of interest. And on academic leave, the country loses one or two billion euros, but what is this amount compared to the fact that you can keep universities and university wealth. According to the shadow government, the creation of foundations was already a mistake in itself, but in the present situation all government officials must be excluded from curatoriums. Therefore, it is safe to say that today the shadow government is Hungary's only hope that Hungarian universities will be free again. I ask the Secretary of State how much more important the filling of fidesz mameluk is than the interests of Hungarian teachers and students, and they would really invest a billion or two euros in exchange for keeping the university's wealth. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-02-27-217	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard from Secretary of State Csaba Latorcai. Here you go.
u2023-02-27-218	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I assure you that Erasmus + and Horizon programmes will continue. If necessary, the Hungarian budget will also be able to continue to travel abroad to continue their studies, and Hungarian universities will continue to participate in international research cooperation. So Hungarian students and Hungarian researchers should not suffer any disadvantage. In 2022, the Hungarian Government undertook to extend the application of EU conflict of interest rules in respect of public-interest trust funds, among the 17 measures laid down in the Conditional Procedure. And I stress that Hungary, the government, has fulfilled this commitment by the end of September 2022. The text of the rules on dynamic conflicts of interest has been agreed with the European Commission, which has been in line with them and has not been requested to exclude government officials and mayors. The government's firm position is that Brussels claims do not have an EU legal basis and that even higher education autonomy is not taken into account to an extent that is unprecedented, and the Commission is clearly applying double standards on this issue as well. However, contrary to the left, the government has always put the interests of the Hungarian people first, and we have made the decision: we will further modify the rules of conflict of interest, and ministers, ministers of state, government and ministerial commissioners have renounced their role in the academic board on 15 February. Honourable Congressman, Minister Navracsics did not talk about the arrival of funds in January, but about a new trial. Please, if you're going to call yourself a member of the shadow government, show more knowledge and don't mislead people. I would also like to draw attention here to the fact that Pál Veres, the DK mayor of Miskolc, is still a member of the board of the University of Miskolc. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] So if you'd just face it honestly and take this question seriously, you wouldn't say anything until Mr. Mayor's in the university board. You're busted, Congressman. Thank you for your patience. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-27-219	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister of the Interior a question, "Why can't the leaders of outpatient careers heal after 1 March?" It's an address. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai has the floor. Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer. Here you go.
u2023-02-27-220	Thank you very much. Dear Deputy Minister, Pursuant to Act C of 2020 on Health Service Service, the head of the health service provider is not allowed to engage in preventive medical activities. However, in recent years, the ban has been suspended for outpatient healthcare providers. In 2021, the Parliament adopted an amendment that does not apply this rule until 1 March 2023. However, this deadline expires in two days, and in two days the leaders of various outpatient clinics will not be able to cure patients. There is a legitimate question as to what the point is. These leaders were chosen, often with decades of careers behind them, because they have extremely high theoretical and practical knowledge. I'm sure most of them would like to heal and continue to do so in the future. It would be very irresponsible if we just let these professionals stop curing us from Wednesday. Undoubtedly, the management of outpatient clinics is a great responsibility, but we know doctors who run entire cities as mayors and have time to heal them. I don't think the management of settlements is smaller, so why the restriction? Why can't the managers of outpatient care services heal after 1 March? I look forward to your reply, Deputy Minister.
u2023-02-27-221	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2023-02-27-222	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Indeed, during the epidemic, there were transitional rules that allowed leaders to participate in everyday work. At the same time, the old order is restored, as it is very important to manage a clinic as accurately as possible, to manage a hospital as accurately as possible. Obviously, you know that in many cases hundreds of colleagues have to conduct their work every day, and obviously, if someone does some other activity regularly within the hospital, they may not be able to pay any attention to it. What is important is that a manager organises the operation of the hospital, the clinic as much as possible, because if he can spend more time and more time organizing his order, it will buy us much more time, we can help people with a lot more illnesses than if he could spend half an hour a day, two hours of his own work. That's why we're going in the direction that the leader really is a leader, a full-time job to run a hospital, a bigger practice. That's not even eight hours a day, that's a lot more responsibility. Obviously, those who act as medical director can carry out such activities, but who is the number one head of the hospital, which in many cases does not appear to be a doctor, there were not one, not two such hospitals in Hungary, and in that case obviously does not even raise this question. But the point is, he wants a whole, full man. And the best thing would be that whoever is the number one leader would be dealing with the most optimal operation of the hospital, the organization of the order, recruitment, recruitment of colleagues, development issues, the organisation of sick roads within the hospital, the development of certain areas, the procurement of instruments or the renovation of the building, and this would take away not only a whole person but much more. That is why the government has decided on this division of labour that there are healers and managers of hospital management. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-27-223	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman János Bencze, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture what strong protection does Hungarian honey and beekeeping receive? It's an address. Mr János Bencze has the floor. Minister will answer. Here you go.
u2023-02-27-224	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Minister, We are pleased to hear that you have listened to the request of the beekeeper society and are trying to clarify the Hungarian honey market situation. It is now well known that a product that the honey society does not like to call honey flows from Ukraine under the name of honey; and the price of this has pushed down the buying-in price of domestic honey, which has put very, very many beekeepers in a very bad position, in essence, to the limit of insolvency. As an expert, we are both aware of the threat to the Hungarian bee-keeping sector, and it is no exaggeration to say that the decisions of the future period will have a major impact on the future of the whole bee-keeping sector. [[20.10]] It is therefore very important that these decisions be taken with particular consideration, taking into account the interests of domestic producers in the sector. We are also pleased that in the European Union Hungary has entered among the countries where honey labels will be required to show the origin of honey. However, we also have concerns about this. What sanctions will be imposed on counterfeiters of origin? What penalty will be imposed on a person who destroys a complete sector by forgery of origin, takes families' livelihoods and destroys them? You know, every decree is worth as much as it can be observed. Beekeepers ask you to create a decree that forgers of origin who consciously destroy an entire sector, the livelihood of families can be stopped for counterfeiting if it turns out to be a series of violations of legislation. Thank you.
u2023-02-27-225	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I have already mentioned, will be given by Minister István Nagy. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2023-02-27-226	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, My dear fellow Member, The problem he raises is real and very serious. However, a slight correction is necessary, since what I am going to be honest about the development of the current honey market is not exactly so. Because you hold Ukrainian honey responsible and tell us how poor and false it is. Let's make a difference here. That's not the problem. What you're referring to is that certain artificial honeys come from Asia, which raises a very serious food safety issue. The question of Ukrainian honey is a European internal market problem, as the war caused the 700 thousand Ukrainian beekeepers to sell their honey immediately after the spin, at roughly half price compared to European prices. And this honey did not arrive in Hungary, but arrived where we wanted to sell it, so it broke into the German, French, Swiss and Austrian market, and the buyers filled their warehouses full of them. This has crippled practically the entire European internal honey market. What do we have to do to protect ourselves from the fake honey that comes from Asia most of the time? This has some very serious points. The only way to get to Hungary from 2015 is to check it out. Hungary was one of the countries that required and demanded strict labelling labelling from the European Union, and we will be the first to take the measure in national competence that it is not only enough that it is a mixture of the two countries within the EU, outside the EU, but also a weighted indication of the honeys on the label by country. I fully support the fact that counterfeiting must be punished depending on its weight ratio. At the moment, there are three more years of banning fines, but I report to you that we are working to ban all traders or food processors who place false food on the market forever from doing so in order to ensure that Hungarian food security is enforced. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-27-227	Thank you very much, Minister. Member László Toroczkai, the group leader of the Group of the Mi Hazank Group, wishes to ask the Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister a question: Why did the Hungarian secret services not prevent foreign terrorists from arriving in Hungary? It's an address. Dear Chief of Staff, Deputy Minister Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State will answer you. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-02-27-228	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As is well known, for three days prior to February 11th, they were free to hunt foreign far-left, so-called antifa terrorists in Budapest, in the Hungarian capital, for national emotional or at least national emotion. Personally, unlike some newspapers, I know of nine victims, and I've spoken to several of them personally. So I must say that I am quite familiar with the circumstances of these attacks. It is also shocking that left-wing terrorism has appeared in Hungary, but it is even more shocking that the Hungarian authorities, and in particular the secret services responsible for the security of the nation, seem to have endured and left it idle. Here's the question. While foreign citizens arriving peacefully at the outbreak events on 11 February were detained by the German authorities at the Frankfurt airport, obviously based on intelligence operational information and were not released from Germany, they were not allowed to travel to Hungary, how is it possible that, based on the news so far and information from the BRFK, the perpetrators were aware of at least 15 perpetrators, some of whom could travel to Hungary. But obviously there were Hungarian threads. We know this, on the one hand, from the police and, on the other hand, from one of the victims, a Hungarian traditionalist who was beaten to the brain because of only one record in the Gazdagrét, who had not suffered very serious permanent injuries, thanks only to divine luck. I spoke with this young man, who said that he was addressed by a young lady who spoke Hungarian, who was obviously also part of the team. How could it be that Hungarian secret services did nothing, did not prevent internationally known far-left terrorists from coming to Hungary with help from Hungary and committing such terrorist attacks? Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-02-27-229	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The answer will be heard from Deputy Minister Csaba Dömötör. Here you go.
u2023-02-27-230	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, The acts that took place a few days ago were committed by members of an extremely violent organization. Indeed, it is no exaggeration to say that this group shows in many respects the characteristics of a terrorist organisation. And it is also important that there are foreigners among the suspected perpetrators. These attacks are, in fact, not unprecedented. Last time, for example, in Erfurt, Germany, two people were beaten up by persons linked to the radical left. On this basis, the anti-wood movement, which is linked to the attacks, deserves special attention from the Hungarian authorities. The strictest action is necessary, as is the case with all radical organisations that threaten Hungarian public security. Information on the activities of the services in certain matters may be requested through the National Security Committee. As you know, this is strictly regulated by domestic law. In any case, it is a positive development that, thanks to the effective work of the authorities, a number of suspected perpetrators have been apprehended and further possible perpetrators are being investigated, and criminal proceedings are already under way. It took twelve years of consistent work to keep Hungary among the safest countries in the world. We want this to stay the same in the future. This also means that violent radical movements have no place in this country, whether they come from abroad or are radical movements on the left side of Hungary. If you think this is important, I would like to confirm that you can count on the government in the future. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-27-231	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister, Secretary of State. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Ms Rebecca Szabó, representative of the Dialogue, would you like to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office a question:. Do you agree with the spectacular violation of the rules on land grabbing and installation? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and By answering this question, the Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of Construction and Transport, who was responsible and competent according to the subject, who authorised Mr Balázs Lánszki, State Secretary, to answer his question. Congresswoman Rebecca Szabó has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-02-27-232	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. The strong position of Fidesz and the government is that the Hungarian rule of law is as perfect as it is, and the urban legend in Brussels alone is that there is a problem with the legitimate functioning of our state administration. What a pity that daily experiences show otherwise! You know that according to Hungarian law, a house could not be built on agricultural land. Except for the judge in Ghevi, you say that, and by "Judge in Ghevi," you mean mostly fidesz politicians, party-to-party oligarchs. The Tihany outskirts have already been built by your key people with swimming pool villas, both on paper and agricultural buildings and reservoirs, with the busy involvement of the government office. [[20.20]] And now the same thing is happening massally on the south coast. In Siófok-Töreki, an entrepreneur who lives in Budapest buys parcels from local farmers in gross violation of pre-emptive law, and also with the help of the local government office. Some of the orchards and fields in question then end up with emblematic figures like the 4iG Jászai Gellért moving closely with the government in the Vodafone case, so that, in these lands, swimming cottages can appear. And this process now threatens the lands and existence of a local animal shelter. So please inform me that you agree with this spectacular violation of land grabbing and installation rules, in which, as we can see, government agencies have a key role to play. If you don't agree, please tell us what you're doing to eliminate the serial violation. If you do agree that this is good, will you maintain how the Hungarian rule of law works? Thank you in advance for your answer.
u2023-02-27-233	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. As I said, the answer is given by Secretary of State Balázs Lánszki. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2023-02-27-234	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I tried to follow the logic of the question, but frankly, it was a little difficult to follow from Brussels through Vodafone to Siófok, and so, if I may, I would prefer to stick to facts and concrete rather than unnecessary political solo flowers. In Hungary, the rules of installation and the possibilities of installation are given primarily by the so-called local regulations of the municipal authorities, which are called HÉSZs. Both functions and installation points may be defined according to the installation parameters contained in these policies. Obviously, the state also has general policy options, laws, regulations, but in any case local regulations have primacy [[Rebecca Szabó: Construction Authority and Government Office!]] in terms of rules, compliance with the rules and, where appropriate, penalties. [[Rebecca Szabó: Government Office!]] In short, the local and municipal government has the right and duty to ask you [[Rebecca Szabó: No, no! No!]] In particular, in the case of residential property, it is also important that, in this case, what you have said, I suggest that I ask the mayor, I understand, that he is your political ally, so I am sure that you can take action on this. And as for the purchase of land, Congresswoman, there are also serious rules in Hungary, and it is not easy to prove credible, to justify local attachment. By the way, the system is designed to justify the fact of local interest by the local Chamber of Agriculture, and questioning this from here in Parliament is highly questionable. But, of course, you have the means of redress that anyone can use. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And while you have mentioned Brussels, we have decades of debate about the EU so that we do not relax on the rules, do not do it, and do not make it easier for foreigners to get to land. We strive to pursue Hungarian and local interests. Finally, in one sentence, I would like to say once again that the government does not have authority, but what we can do is to comply with and tighten up the regulations as strictly as possible. So I would like to draw your attention to this week's bill on Hungarian architecture, in which we wish to explicitly tighten up the construction rules. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-27-235	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. With all due respect, I would like to remind you that two minutes is the opportunity to respond, but since you have no parliamentary experience yet, I have, of course, left. [[Balázs Lánszki Regő: Thank you.]] To tell you everything you have to say, because I thought it was important. So thank you very much. Congressman Máté Kanász-Nagy, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Energy a question: what is going on in Recsen? It's an address. Honourable Member, the Secretary of State, Madam Deputy Minister, will answer you. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-02-27-236	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The preparatory work of the andesit mine is carried out in Recsk, opening an andesit mine directly within the administrative border of the village, next to the houses. In recent weeks, I have had the opportunity to make sure on several occasions what is actually happening in Recsen and how the locals protest against the mine opening. I have seen closely that this mine is opened in the immediate vicinity of the residential houses, which can cause extreme damage to the inhabitants, the residents, the noise pollution, the increased use of road traffic. We're only in the preparatory phase, but we've already started the so-called rock-welding explosions, so they exploded right next to the apartments, two huge explosions shook the settlement not so long ago, and as the residents reported it, the houses were really shaking, a lot of people were scared, they ran out of the house to see exactly what was happening, such an explosion was very, very loud, and it was really vibration waves that the people there felt. The case of this mine opening seems to be bleeding from several wounds. For example, the government agency authorising the activity did not publish the environmental impact assessment submitted by the applicant, the mine's technical operational plan or the air quality control methodology, and local information is missing. The question I asked earlier in writing was that the government was informed about the mine opening in Recsk, and that I invited the Minister and Secretary Steiner to go to Recsk together, to see what was happening there, to see if this mine opening was really okay. I would ask the secretary of state, the government and the Ministry to deal with the opening of the mine in Recsk, respond to local residents [[The president's ringing the bell.]] To their legitimate questions. Thank you very much.
u2023-02-27-237	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer is from Deputy Minister Zsófia Koncz, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2023-02-27-238	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Of course, the government is dealing with the crack issue. The Heves County Government has issued the permit based on surface and groundwater protection, geological medium protection, air purity protection, noise and vibration protection, waste management, landscape and nature conservation, public health, forestry, heritage protection, disaster protection and expected impacts, and you are aware that you have established more than 80 specialized regulations and obligations, in connection with the expected noise effects of the mine operation, to which you have indicated the strictest noise protection standards. It did so by considering the interests of the public, the environmental impact assessment procedure examined the worst conditions for all installations to be protected in the context of the expected noise effects arising from the mine operation and established the most stringent noise protection standards accordingly. The bombing permit will specify when, how, and whom to notify about the bombing activity. Following the finalization of the permit, the bombing company informed the municipality of the expected activity. This notice was posted at several points of the municipality and in the office of the municipality and was also distributed online. As regards the bombings on 10 February, I would like to remind you of what László Horváth, elected for the fifth time in the region, has said: according to the seismic measurements of the audited independent external expert in five places, three instruments measured zero and two measured one tenth of the permitted value. The left, which has never been to Recsen, is now raging and leading the street people here as well. That's how they do things where there's trouble, and then when the likes drop, [[The president's ringing the bell.]] They'll move on. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I would like to ask the Member not to sit on this process and not to continue producing false news. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-27-239	Thank you very much, Madam Deputy Minister. Dear House, Fellow Members! Member Attila Tilki, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade what support has Hungary made to help victims of the earthquake in Turkey and Syria? It's an address. Honourable Member, Deputy Minister Levente Magyar, State Secretary will answer you. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-02-27-240	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, On 6 February, a devastating earthquake shook Turkey and Syria near Turkey; it was a magnitude of 7.8, followed by aftershocks, of course, and even today there was an earthquake, three weeks after the first earthquake. [[20.30]] According to Friday's data, the number of dead has risen above 44,000, according to Turkish disaster control, according to AFAD. The earthquake affected area is territorially larger than the territory of Hungary, and nearly 160,000 houses collapsed or became completely useless, and nearly 500,000 homes became uninhabitable. We were very pleased that Prime Minister immediately indicated his sympathy and assistance to the Turkish people in a letter. Among the first were the rescue team of the National Directorate-General for Disaster Protection Hunor, which went to the site, of course followed by several NGOs. The Hungarian rescue units have done very serious and professional work in Turkey. If we look at the fact that every third of the people found were connected to Hungarian units, then we can be proud of Hungarian ambulances for a fair, fair and reasonable reason, not only of Hungarian ambulances, but also of working dogs working alongside Hungarian ambulances. I am pleased that the county has given special awards to civil society organisations involved in the rescue. I too had the pleasure of meeting the 11-year-old dachshund, Smile, whose name is, among other things, the rescue of a five-year-old child. I am the President of the Turkish Parliament and I would like to convey the eternal gratitude of the Turkish people for Hungarian help. My question is: what further assistance will we be able to provide to the Turks and, of course, to the Syrians in the area close to Turkey? [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-02-27-241	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, Deputy Minister Levente Magyar, Minister of State, answers you. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2023-02-27-242	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for bringing this up. I think that we are rightly talking about this within the walls of this House, because it is an epochal tragedy that has struck Turkey and Syria. Uncertainty about numbers is ongoing, but we may not be far from the truth, if we are to increase the number of real victims by at least one magnitude, not to mention the hundreds of thousands of wounded and the series of consequences of the humanitarian crisis that are affecting this vast region. About 13 million people are affected by this tragedy. So 13 million people changed dramatically from one moment to the next, perhaps forever. Obviously, the Turkish political commitments that everything here will stand and life will return to normal within a year are optimistic. We wish that to happen, but the reality is that this will be a very, very long restoration, not to mention Syria. So in the numbers just quoted, the number of victims on the Syrian side doesn't even appear. Turkey is facing an unheard of tragedy, a historical tragedy, and I cannot stress it. Obviously, in such a case, Hungary not only felt the obligation to help as a NATO ally, not only as a country with expertise and recognition in the area, but also as a friend of the Turkish people, especially, so there were indeed dozens of Hungarian rescue teams in Turkey, 167 Hungarian search and rescue dogs and 22 search dogs. We are proud of this, and of course we will continue to give the Turks all the help we can in rebuilding, as we can make sure that this province, this historical province, can be restored as soon as possible and that life can return to normal. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-02-27-243	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman Imre Vejkey, representative of KDNP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Office a question: "How long and from what source can humanitarian aid be maintained? It's an address. Congressman Imre Vejkey has the floor. State Secretary Miklós Soltész will answer you. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-02-27-244	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Since February 24, 2022, millions of Ukrainian citizens have fled their homes with backpacks and suitcases; they have fled to save their lives and their children from the destruction of the Russian-Ukrainian war. In a hopeless and uncertain situation, their only hope was that one of the neighbouring countries would take them in. Hungary has performed beyond force during the supply of the arrivals. Today we have adopted more than 1.2 million refugees, so we can say that we are one of the EU Member States that hosts most Ukrainian refugees. Dear Secretary of State, In Budapest and in the countryside there are several smaller and larger church and civil society organisations, which are in daily contact with refugees. According to the experience of aid workers, housing, education and financial support are currently the biggest problems. Hungary will help you wherever you can. Our country also helped to help the victims of the earthquake in Turkey. I ask Mr Secretary of State on this basis: how long and from what source can humanitarian aid be maintained? Thank you.
u2023-02-27-245	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from Secretary of State Miklós Soltés. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2023-02-27-246	Thank you. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, Mr. President. Indeed, in the terrible war that started a year ago, we had to decide what we Hungarians would do. We could have decided the way the opposition wanted us to. Sándor Rónai DK MEP, since then shadow minister, or I don't know what to call it, let me quote someone:. I am very sorry about the announcement by the Hungarian Government yesterday that we are not helping 100 percent, as other EU Member States, for example, are helping to carry weapons. This was said a year ago by this so-called shadow minister, Gyurcsány's right-hand man. The fact is that this has had serious consequences for those countries [[Zoltán Varga: Lower inflation!]] which have all chosen this path. And we said... [[Zoltán Varga: Seven-time gas price!]] They're being hysterical right now, and they're being violent here in Parliament. But the fact is that we had to choose a completely different path, and that's the honest way, and that's the help that's been done over the last year, which is Hungary's biggest aid and humanitarian aid, even if the DK representative intervenes here, and he doesn't like the way we have chosen. [[Zoltán Varga: Well, no!]] In the meantime, more than 1 million people have actually arrived in Hungary. [[Interview from DK's ranks: They went on!]] We have helped over 500,000 people at the aid points in Budapest and everywhere else in the country, and in addition to the six large charities, many local governments, government agencies and civil volunteers have helped in the last year. Our task is to maintain and support all this, and all the help that we have given, whether in our country, in Transcarpathia or in Internal Ukraine, we will continue and continue. That's what we can do. I'm sure we won't choose what the opposition wants. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-02-27-247	Dear House, Fellow Members! Andrea Hegedüs, a representative of DK, would like to ask the Minister of the Interior: "Is there really no one in the fully fattened apparatus who can perform the four basic operations? ! It's an address. Congresswoman Andrea Hegedüs has the floor. Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer you. Here you go.
u2023-02-27-248	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, The Prime Minister identified faith education and daily physical education as the main two problems of public education. He does not consider it important that since schools have been taken away from the municipalities and managed centrally, they are becoming less and less functioning because of a shortage of professionals. [[20.40]] It is said that more teachers teach in schools today than in 2010 if the student hours were drastically increased. There are hardly any schools where there is no vacant teaching job, the missing teachers are replaced by colleagues during overtime. And that is a slogan, though, unfortunately negative: Hungarian teacher teaches chemistry, geography teacher teaches foreign language, but that is not all. The Budapest Institute has shown that, in addition to teachers, at least 14,000 additional assistants should be employed in the institutions, i.e. pedagogical assistants, medical teachers, psycho pedagogues, secretaries, nannys, librarians, administrators and cleaners. The work of the missing must be carried out by teachers who are incompetent but in no way used and overloaded for this purpose. However, we also know of schools where parents clean. [[Bence Rétvári: Waldorf!]] The main cause of the shortage here is unfairly low wages. The salary of a qualified pedagogical assistant is the guaranteed minimum wage. Although this is still better than last September when a high school in downtown was looking for a teacher and an afternoon cleaner in English at the same time. And it wasn't the rent for the janitor that was too high. Therefore, I ask Mr Secretary of State: why have they mastered schools if they cannot provide them with the minimum conditions required by the law themselves? There's no one around the government who's aware of the four basic operations, who would have been able to figure out how much more it would cost in the budget? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2023-02-27-249	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. As I said, we will hear the answer from Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2023-02-27-250	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Speaking of basic operations, Congresswoman, what's the difference between 185,000 and 170,000? 15,000. Well, that's how many teachers you've dismissed, Congresswoman. You are talking about the need for more teachers in Hungary, compared to what you have added to this, it is not only a reduction in the wages of teachers, not only the closure of countless schools, but the dismissal of 15,000 teachers. [[Zoltán Varga: That's not true!]] Well, why don't you go up to the KSH tomorrow and take a look, Congressman? You've reduced it by 15,000. He also justified Mr. Secretary of State Arató now, Mr. Shadow Minister, saying that the fragmented education system cannot be financed, that the intention is not to reduce costs, but to make better, more efficient use of available funds. These are the words you said when you were ruling in Hungary, and these are the sentences you said when the wages were reduced and 15,000 Hungarian teachers were released. 15,000, Your Honour. Since then, the number of teachers has generally moved in this range of about 167-170 thousand, and in some years there are many, and in other years there are fewer. At the beginning of the current academic year, if you look at the numbers from the end of August until October, about 4,000 new relationships have emerged, but about this band. But when there was a fall in the number of teachers, it was your time. And we hope that this number will continue not only to be held, but that young people with the best skills will apply to the teaching field, and will remain there if the wage increase that we started this year will take place at the beginning of the year, next year and then, at the beginning of the year, so that in three years, overall, it will take 25 months, and there will be a 75 percent increase in teacher wages. This means that the average teacher's wage can be 777 thousand forints in Hungary at the beginning of the following year. You've shown me how to cut teacher's wages. You reduced the salary of the teacher by 8 percent when you took away the 13th month's allowance. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We show you how to increase by 75% in 25 months when EU funds arrive. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-02-27-251	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister, Secretary of State. Ladies and gentlemen, That concludes the questions. From here we move on to our next item on the agenda. Dear House, A political debate on the environmental and economic impacts of battery factories installed and to be installed in Hungary, initiated by Szabó Timea and colleagues. Motion to initiate a political debate V/2851. The Parliament's IT network is accessible to all of us. Dear Parliament, I now call on Mr Winner Vinnai to explain the course of the political debate. Here you are, notary. You have the floor.
u2023-02-27-252	Dear Parliament, First, a statement by the representative of the Government shall be made in a 40-minute period. The opening speech will then take place in a 20-minute period, and then the speakers of each political group will speak in 10-10 minutes, and the first independent Member may speak. After that, further speeches are possible within the remaining timeframe, and then the author's closing will take place within a 20-minute timeframe. Finally, the representative of the Government will respond in 20 minutes to what has been said in the debate.
u2023-02-27-253	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to remind you of the more important rules of the time-frame debate. The speaking time of the member of the Government who spoke during the debate is expected to be in the time of the pro-government factions. In the meantime, two-minute speeches shall be included in the time frame, with the exception of responding to personal concerns. Point of order speeches are not included in the time frame. On the meeting room information board, interested parties can monitor the use of time frames. But before we continue our work, the Parliament must decide on a meeting matter. Vice-President Lajos Oláh wishes to speak during today's political debate. In the event of opposition by the representatives of the Vice-President, the sitting may be held in the course of further negotiations of a separate motion only if the Parliament agrees to do so. And since Mr Vice-President would like to lead the meeting, I would therefore like to ask the Honourable Parliament, he agreed that Vice-President Lajos Oláh should be able to hold the meeting during the further discussion of the proposal. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. It's a visible majority. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted my motion. Now, before we begin the debate, I would like to ask Mr Sándor Szabó to explain the time frame. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2023-02-27-254	Dear Parliament, The distribution of the proposed four-hour timeframe is as follows: 82 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 38 minutes for the KDNP Group, 22 minutes for the DK Group, 18 minutes for the Momentum Group, 18 minutes for the MSZP Group, 16 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 14 minutes for the Group of Hungary, 14 minutes for the LMP Group and 4 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 10-10 minutes lead speakers.
u2023-02-27-255	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, First, the government's statement takes place in a 40-minute timeframe. I would like to inform you that the Government has indicated that the Government's declaration will be presented in exchange by two State Secretarys-General Csaba Dömötör, Minister of State and Deputy Minister Levente Magyar. Now, with all due respect, I would like to ask Csaba Dömötör, Deputy Minister of State, to come to the stand and present the part of the statement that he has to give us. Here you go, Deputy Minister. You have the floor.
u2023-02-27-256	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to speak on behalf of the government on the issue of domestic battery investments, the most important international economic and, as important as this, environmental conditions. The starting point is that transport is changing around the world, and so is industry. The share of purely petrol or diesel cars in EU sales last year was only 52 percent, total electric cars accounted for 2 percent of sales in 2019 and 12 percent last year. The difference between the two is largely due to vehicles using different hybrid technologies, which also require batteries. So it's a leap-like growth. Based on current trends, battery production could increase tenfold worldwide by 2030, with an average increase of 30 percent per year. [[20.50]] The European Union does not want to drift with this process, but wants to be a shaper. This can now be seen not only in words but also in decisions. It was decided that from 2035 onwards, only a closing-release vehicle could be placed on the Union market. In particular, they want to serve climate protection objectives. The regulation was also adopted in the European Parliament a few days ago and was adopted by the European Parliament. I would like to point out to my fellow Members that the European Parliament's argument is that this plan encourages investment, so consumers will be able to buy emission-free cars at a cheaper price. So, in addition to green technology, it also helps to lower prices. I would particularly like to highlight the words of Commissioner Frans Timmermans, in a political sense, as you may know, not exactly a big supporter of the Hungarian government, but that is not the point here. In an interview with Bild, he urged the launch of mass battery production in Europe. He said that in Europe the best cars in the world are being built, but we cannot be chained to the past, he said. So, according to the prevailing EU position, such investments are designed to protect the environment, reduce Europeans' expenditure on car shopping and help to modernise European industry, so they are the future. The European Commission has recently set up the European Battery Association, which would also encourage development. The whole picture includes the fact that East Asian countries have gained a significant advantage in this technology. Because of decades of experience, all major European car manufacturers have eastern partners. The U.S. Anti-Inflationary Act is also remarkable, and it grants no less than $369 billion for climate protection purposes, including the promotion of electric cars. I note quietly that, in the long term, this law would like to openly crowd out non-American technology, including Chinese technology. As is known, the investment in Debrecen was also initiated by a Chinese company; parentheses closed. Enormous competition for battery investments has been launched in Europe. It is now decided where the centres of the European green industry will be, deciding where the industrial centres of the future, the car factories of the future will be. Mostly where there are battery companies. What does that mean in numbers? There are already half a dozen large battery factories in Europe and more than 40 additional battery factories are established. The construction of 14 large battery factories was announced in the United States. Ford, for example, announced a battery investment in the state of Michigan. Who? The Chinese CATL company to which the investment in Debrecen is linked. This Chinese company also established a factory in Germany. And what did the Green Energy Minister there say to that? I quote: we need companies that are committed to sustainability and the conservation of resources. Thus, both Germany and Germany consider CATL investment as a green investment. Other Chinese companies are launching battery investments, as are American Tesla, Volkswagen or French PSA. In Eastern Europe, too, more and more battery plants are being built, the largest European plant, perhaps few of them know, is located in Poland, and the Polish government has supported this investment by a significant amount. In the case of Poles, lithium batteries already accounted for 2% of exports in 2021, which enabled them to meet one third of European demand. The Czech Government is also supporting the construction of a large factory, and lithium mining is also being started. Romania would also like to be on the map of battery production. Dear House, Hungary has also entered into this great economic competition. In these years, it will be decided where such factories will be in Europe, which will also have a significant impact on where car factories will be. But why do I say that? About 40 percent of the value of electric cars is given by batteries. These batteries are the most complex components of electric vehicles, which is why they will be at the centre of the supply chains that are now developing. Where there will be no battery production, the automotive industry will be reduced and jobs will be lost. Hungary cannot afford this. There are already 160,000 people working in the vehicle industry. The weight of the automotive industry in the domestic total product is currently nearly 20 percent, which is at stake. We want a strong automotive industry, high added value jobs and Hungary's leadership in building a new green industry. It's not bad, by the way. According to the Financial Times, Hungary could be second in production capacity by 2031 behind Germany. Dear House, These were the international and economic circumstances, but there is one other issue that we cannot ignore: the local environmental aspects. The question of the environmental burden of such a factory is perfectly natural. I would also like to make it clear here that if an investor comes to Hungary, it is the duty of a dog to comply with environmental standards, environmental standards, which in many cases are stricter than EU requirements. The authorisation procedure is multi-stage, the factory is subject to authorisation during the preparation phase as well as during the construction phase and operation, and is monitored by the authorities. There are strict requirements for water use, water quality, strict standards for soil quality and soil protection. There are strict limit values for emissions. They are also more stringent than EU limit values, by the way. There are strict rules on air quality. And here's the important thing: there will be no used battery processing in Debrecen. I would like to refer once again to the fact that the same technology was created in Türingia, Germany, and it was built by the same company, and that plant is considered to be a sustainable green investment by the Germans and the German Greens. Dear House, To sum up, I think that the investment in Debrecen and all similar investments will also serve the modernization of Hungarian industry, the protection of jobs and sustainability, and the protection of the environment. We do not have to agree with the opposition parties on everything, but I think it is important that the debate on the investment in Debrecen is on the basis of the facts, taking into account the interests of Hungary and the concerns of people living in and around Debrecen. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-02-27-257	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister, Secretary of State. I would like to inform the House that it has used 9 minutes of the 40-minute timeframe, and accordingly there are 31 minutes left, or there is still an opportunity for Deputy Minister Levente Magyar, Minister of State, and he is next. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-02-27-258	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, International markets already speak of Hungary as the meeting point of the West and the East, the location where the large German car manufacturers and the Asian battery suppliers meet. As a result of the economic process launched in 2016, Hungary has now become the fourth largest electric battery manufacturer in the world. In the last two years, the electric battery has been Hungary's number one export item in 19 months, and our fourth position at certain readings may advance us, and we will certainly soon reach the second place mentioned by the Secretary of State. In the last six years, investments related to electric battery production have been created in more than twenty municipalities in Hungary. A total of 47 positive decisions were taken between 16 and 22 with the support of the National Investment Agency on projects related to batteries for electric vehicles, which represent nearly EUR 10 billion in investment volumes and some 15 200 new jobs for the Hungarian national economy. This aggregate does not yet include an investment by CATL in Debrecen of EUR 7.5 billion, which is planned to create another 9,000 new jobs. The opposition has launched a coordinated attack on an industry that has been operating for years and is constantly developing, while international trends show that no one wants to be left out of this competition. According to Bloomberg data, there are 55 locations of battery production throughout North America, representing some 813 gigawatt hours of power, including 40 new battery factories in the United States of America. [[21.00]] Germany is currently planning to set up 14 battery plants in the coming years. As the Secretary of State has said, it is of particular interest that the CATL was expressly welcomed by the Greens in Germany, and it has recently become public that the large company will also build a factory in the United States. It is also important to note that, together with the projects already implemented and planned, by 2030, more than 50 so-called giga factory or gigabactertory can operate in Europe, 5 of them in Hungary, i.e. 10 percent of the European capacity, and by then 16 countries will be in Europe where these gigabactertories produce batteries in more than 10 gigawattors. Based on the known plans at the end of 2022, Germany plans to achieve at least 545 gigawatt hours in the European Union by 2030, Hungary to 217 gigawatt hours, France to 121, Italy to 118, Poland to 115, Sweden to 110, and Spain to achieve a battery capacity of 100 gigawatt hours. Almost half of the EU Member States will have a factory that will specifically produce lithium-ion batteries, but almost all Member States will participate in the production value chain. I would also like to address the issue of energy demand. There is no question that our economic plans require energy, a lot of energy, as much energy as we have never needed in Hungary. Just as the net energy importer Germany is successfully operating its industry, the energy demand for new investments in Hungary is not a threat to Hungary's power supply. We will therefore build power plants and wiring systems, even if Brussels refuses to play a part in financing them. When we hear criticisms about battery companies, it is important to clarify the following. The concerns and possible fears of local residents must, of course, be heard, discussed and given concrete answers. At the same time, we can assure everyone that we have and will continue to have a strong expectation of all investors that strict domestic and EU environmental and other rules must be respected. There's no argument between us. At the same time, it is shocking that left-wing politicians who claim to be green try to mislead and dissuade people in the hope of political gain in terms of battery factories. We need to speak clearly and straightly on this issue as well. Today, those who drive against the installation of electric battery factories and their supplier companies in Hungary threaten tens of thousands of jobs and risk the stability of the Hungarian economy. Unlike the opposition, the government does not see any reason to stay out of this competition. Dear House, As I said, a lot of related investments have been decided positively in Hungary in recent years. In addition to the 47 projects mentioned above, HIPA is in the pre-decision phase of a further 4 battery-related projects representing an investment volume of at least EUR 1 billion, i.e. even a partial activity. I would like to stress that in battery production, wages are significantly higher than the manufacturing average, so there is also a wage drive effect of these investments, so the average income in the sector is more than 60 percent higher than the average in the manufacturing sector, which is currently 519 thousand forints, obviously, and 851,000 forints in the field of battery production. It has also been said, but I would like to emphasise once again that 14 new battery plants will be implemented in Germany, including the factory unit of the CATL in Türingia, where a green socialist coalition is running and a prominent pro-green politician has given the environmental license to the CATL. Germany is also operating a programme called "Akucella Production Germany" with which it systematically combines its battery-related activities, co-ordinating the various innovation and investment plans and other related measures, while the federal government supports these projects with EUR 3 billion. In addition, in France, Spain, Italy, Poland, Great Britain, the Netherlands and Sweden we can find existing factories on the continent! Together with the projects already implemented and planned, there will be more than 50 gigafactorys in Europe by 2030, 16 countries where there will be at least 10 gigawatt-hour plants. By 2030, Germany will produce at least 545 gigawatts in this segment. The Czech Republic and Romania are planning similar investments, as we are talking about the region. According to data from 2022 in Poland, there are already 60 companies directly involved in the production of lithium batteries. I would like to quote Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, who said that the fourth industrial revolution regards battery production and refers to this sector as a means of transforming Polish industry. Please allow me to do a brief overseas lookout as well. The Americans introduced their so-called inflation reduction law in 2022, whose main purpose is to consolidate the US's global leadership in the economy, including in the productive sector. Note the figures: out of the total cost of $437 billion, about three quarters of it, $369 billion are allocated to support emissions reductions, climate protection and renewable energy sources. This programme will help manufacturers, obviously in the automotive sector, to create new battery production capacities. In March 2023 and in a few weeks' time, new implementing rules for the programme are expected. At this time, the Biden administration plans to introduce provisions aimed at car manufacturers buying batteries and raw materials from US and so-called allied suppliers. This will probably mean that batteries produced on the American continent can only be installed in American vehicles. In the United States, there are 40 new battery factories in the competition. So America is killing hundreds of billions of dollars to bring back and create new capacities on American soil in the area of automotive and electromobility, which has been exported in recent years. In such an international context, when the world's most advanced economies, the world's greenest economies and the political systems that represent greening, climate neutrality most vehemently and effectively, see Scandinavia, when these countries and economies compete, invest in these investments without saving money, at a time like this, Hungary should not turn its back on this industry because, with half-information enlarged and out of context, some people are using this issue for political capital and capital accumulation along a political agenda, I think it is not necessary to step on this path, because traditional car manufacturing, the production of internal combustion engines, is nearing the end of its good hundred-year history. This is very clear, this is the direction the world is heading in, and some decisions have already been taken in the EU institutional system, which link the production of new internal combustion engines to a specific date. This will happen sometime in the mid-30s, so it is obvious that from the second half of the 20s, the classic car production will start to be demolished by investors. What will replace that liberating labour force, what will replace that generated GDP, what will replace the weight of car manufacturing in the structure of the Hungarian economy, if not the industrial activities related to electromobility? [[21.10]] On several occasions, it has been said in today's debates by the Members and ladies that it is the environmental footprint of battery production that they are perhaps most concerned about. In this regard, we will obviously have time to talk about numbers tonight, but I would like to stress that, for example, the area of the CATL plant in Debrecen is 105 hectares, so the production building itself will occupy such an area, which is the net factory building itself, compared to this, the BMW, on which such objections are rightly, I think, and according to national interests we have not heard, is built on 400 hectares. So, if we are to say that we have to sacrifice agricultural land for industrial development, which is a constant dilemma of Hungarian economic policy, where the gold middle road can be found here, but if we step on this road and land for some investments, we will obviously turn as little gold land as possible into industrial development of the lowest value as possible, why would we say that we are not willing to do so with these most value-added activities? Why, in this particular activity, where a single factory represents an investment value such as thirty other classic industrial investments, why would we say that we are not giving up the 100 hectares in an industrial area where, if this factory does not arrive, another factory will arrive because we are talking about an expanding industrial zone? It has also been said in today's debates that foreign and foreign producers. Of course they are, because it takes capital to create such a production unit that Hungarian companies do not have. Hungarian companies do not have the technology that is necessary for this. There are some countries in the world, such as the nuclear industry, that are able to produce these products in such volumes, i.e. in market-comprehensible volumes: China, Korea, the United States, Germany. We often overlook the fact that the Germans will build a battery factory in Kecskemét as a complement to the Mercedes investment. For some reason, there wasn't such an aversion. Of course, wherever these investors come from, the same strict conditions apply to all of them as domestic investors, there is no difference in this. I think that this is a reverse argument, because on this basis Hungary should turn its back on all foreign investors, which would obviously lead to an economic disaster. The Hungarian national economy is simply not large enough, the population of Hungary is not large enough, and the Hungarian national economy structure is not mature enough to exclude foreign capital from the country, but obviously it doesn't come to mind, and we are also working every day to find as many high-value investments as possible in Hungary. Allow me to make one last comment. There have been a number of comments in recent weeks about why Hungary supports battery factories, for example, instead of the food industry or other industries. I would like to stress here that it is far from an exclusivity. When we say that battery manufacturers should come to Hungary, because a broad value chain and a wide connection possibility can also be created for these large flagship investments for smaller Hungarian companies, we do not say that we do not want to develop the Hungarian food industry, that we do not want to increase the Hungarian industries building on Hungarian internal resources, building on Hungarian capabilities. In fact, we say quite the opposite, the food industry will be shaken by a large amount of resources in the coming years due to the doubling of the Hungarian supplement, which Hungary has not seen before, and the food industry is facing a ten-year unheard and unprecedented rise. I think we need to speak very clearly here. Battery manufacturing and the automotive industry are generally not the only direction of Hungarian industrial development. It is made up of a kind of backbone, as it has been made up since. 90, but it is not the only main component. However, without having stable industrial pillars that support the Hungarian economy, which provide tens of thousands of jobs, which offer a perspective for the coming decades, which make a significant contribution to the Hungarian state's revenue, this is essential to maintain with additional industrial development the diversified structure that we have managed to build in recent years, as has also been said in one of the debates today: Hungary has one of the most diverse economies in the world. We do not want to change this point, simply keeping up with the requirements of the age, keeping up with the requirements of the pursuit of carbon neutrality, we would like to take the Hungarian economy into a green light and maximize the added value of all this in Hungary for the benefit of Hungarian citizens. I think it's unthinkable without battery production. Without necessarily preparing for a transformation of the automotive industry, this is unthinkable. I ask all of us to discuss the issues that arise in a sound debate, not in political overtones, but in fact, and then, I hope that we can rise from this Chamber tonight in such a way that, if we have not convinced each other, at least we have been able to resolve the doubts that have been expressed along the lines of good faith in some. Mr. President, that's a start, thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-27-259	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, The opening speech will now take place, which will be presented by three speakers within a total period of 20 minutes. The rapporteurs are Ms Rebecca Szabó, Vice-President Lajos Oláh and Mr Antal Csárdi. First, I give the floor to Mrs Rebecca Szabó, who speaks from here, from the platform. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2023-02-27-260	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, We, dialogueists, initiated this debate today because we find it outrageous that the government has adopted its national battery strategy and wants to make the country such a large power as a battery company, without prior social consultation or a national environmental impact assessment. And they don't talk to parents who are worried about their children's future, about our water, about the soil, and they can testify to that, and they don't give them meaningful answers. Even at the last meeting of the Committee on Sustainable Development, the pro-government representatives did not appear at all, but I am glad that on this day of debate they can at least say why they consider it such a good idea to fill the country with battery factories that eat water and energy. Since you seem to have failed to examine the conditions for the construction of so many battery factories in Hungary, I will now do it for you. It is necessary for the factories, isn't it, first of all, a lot of cheap energy; second of all, a lot of clean water, preferably also not expensive; thirdly, a large area of land that can be used for little else, since where there was a battery plant, there will certainly be no garden, plowing or housing in the following centuries. [[Noise, interruptions from the pro-government ranks.]] And, of course, you need plenty of skilled personnel nearby. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Well, let's see what your plans are for the largest factory, the Chinese CATL, to build what is available in Debrecen of the four conditions. The reckoning could be short: virtually nothing. The energy supply of the future factory is currently highly uncertain. The amount of energy that will be needed at the first stage is known from the environmental permit. We see that the heat demand is partly ensured by installation with local gas-fired boilers, then there will be a high consumption of natural gas, depending on the season between 10 000 and 12 500 cubic meters per hour, and the electricity demand of the site is 640 gigawatts per year, but this is only the first stage. According to various estimates, the entire year's energy demand will use up a quarter of a pack for this factory. All we know is that they're not going to take these energies from renewable sources. Natural gas is not renewable in the first place, and there is no abundance of green electricity around Debrecen. By the way, since it has already been said here by the government, the factory in Türingia in Germany, which they like to refer to, is about 70 hectares, so it is much smaller than the one in Debrecen, and it is 14 gigawattor capacity that it is planning to produce, and according to the data, Debrecen is going to produce about 100 gigawattor, so it is going to be about seven times higher for the Debrecen factory according to the available data, and Germany is also slightly larger than Hungary, so I think it is possible to see that you have slightly missed the scale here. [[21.20]] Moreover, Hungary is a highly dependent country on energy imports, and we know that this means vulnerability to Russia. Péter Szijjártó's unparalleled gas contract leads us to buy the most expensive natural gas in Europe. So I don't think the power supply is secure either. In addition, if new gas plants are planned to be built, this means that our CO2 emissions will also fall sharply. [[Sic!]] It's the battery companies. I would be very interested to know how this drastic carbon footprint growth will be offset or whether the fight against the climate crisis will be stopped here. Because, of course, it's a good thing to refer to battery-powered electric cars, if you're doing the energy we use to produce these batteries, you're all going to produce them in carbon dioxide emissions. But it's even more tragic with the factory's need for water. Debrecen's wider environment, the central part of the Great Plain, is one of the most water deficit areas in the country. Even today, there are clear signs of this problem: the lakes are drying up, the trees of the Great Forest are dying. The designers of the factory know this, as they do not base themselves on any local water source, as I know they want to connect to the public water network. I think it's a bad idea, but the only thing worse than that is that the battery company in Komárom wants to use the karst water supplies in Tata. In my opinion, this will have tragic consequences. As far as agricultural land is concerned, in Debrecen hundreds of hectares of the best quality agricultural land in the country are sacrificed for battery production, which is also contrary to the soil protection law. In this respect, soil is not a renewable energy source, and food for future generations must also be produced somewhere. That's already been mentioned. In my opinion, it is not a good idea to cement these fields because of an infinite number of car factories. I think we should find a different solution and preserve good quality agricultural land. Finally, let's look at the workforce. In the county of Hajdú-Bihar, there is a shortage of skilled industrial workers, so that the existing industrial plants of the Great Plain are trying to bite as much as possible from each other's workforce and lobby the government to make it easier to bring in migrant workers. Since we see that their requests are found in open ears, Göd, where Samsung already operates a battery factory, only 200 locals work, about every second worker is not a Hungarian citizen. The situation in Iváncsa and Komárom is similar, and it is said that already in Debrecen the purchase of apartments has begun for incoming Chinese migrant workers. Of course, there is nothing wrong with foreign workers working in these factories, but it is very comical that you are constantly talking about Hungary's profits and the Hungarian workforce. Maybe you should ask the residents in the area. That's not exactly their experience. All in all, we believe in the Dialogue that there is no need for these battery factories to use and increase the energy of which there is little in Hungary anyway. There is no need to deprive Debrecen, Micepercsi and local farmers of their drinking water, and there is no need for concrete factories to grow in the best quality agricultural land instead of food. It is also a problem that Eastern European battery production has a range of negative environmental and social impacts. It has already been mentioned that battery manufacturers have to take back and process waste generated after the use of batteries from their factories. This means hundreds of thousands of tons of hazardous waste each year. And even though they say, unfortunately we know that the Hungarian authorities cannot protect Hungarian citizens; the toxic and embryotoxic solvent called NMP has already appeared in the water of the surrounding wells. Somehow, you don't talk about it, and you don't respond, I don't really understand why. Unfortunately, the environmental authorities in Hungary are weak, they cannot protect Hungarian citizens. Anyway, parentheses, let's not forget about corruption. Somehow, it is very interesting that Mészáros and Mészáros Kft have made infrastructure investments for many Hungarian billions here in the vicinity of battery factories. He's gonna win it. Maybe that's the real reason you guys at Fidesz are so supportive of the battery companies. Finally, I would like to say that we in the Dialogue know as a Green Party that electromobility is needed, but we also know that it is not possible to produce endless quantities of batteries, there is no unlimited and clean energy, and it is very risky to crowd such a small country with these water, electricity, land wasters and toxic factories. In addition, the Orbán government could have decided to connect to another part of the value chain of electromobility, such as the development of software operating cars or research and development. They shouldn't have sacrificed environmental resources and our future to any of them. However, you have decided to choose the largest ecological footprint of the whole value chain and the lowest added value, where pollution is the largest and the least profitable. And this is not only in Debrecen, because this is not the only battery project in the country, here is Göd, Iváncsa, Kistelek, Komárom, Győrszentiván and many other parts of the battery plant in the country with which you crowd the country, suppress the basic environmental information, do not communicate with citizens. I think that this can result in an environmental disaster, drying up parts of the country and risking our health, a historical sin that will forever be linked to Viktor Orbán and his government. It's not too late to prevent that. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the lines of MSZP and Dialogue.]]
u2023-02-27-261	Thank you, Congresswoman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Oláh. The following initial address will be held. Here you go.
u2023-02-27-262	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and Gentlemen, The item highlights not only the problems relating to battery factories, but also the anti-environmental nature of the Orbán government. From the moment the government was formed, it was seen that environmental protection was treated as a stepchild. The Ministry of the Environment, the institution of the green ombudsman, has been abolished and the authority system has been destroyed, which is now particularly necessary. This government never consults with anyone, doesn't care about the opinion of the population, of civil society organisations. Let's add that, since Fidesz has been in power, it's been at war with the local governments, so all it's been doing in recent years is taking resources and powers away from them, and they've never thought about it. In addition, the government is constantly hiding data, removing impact assessments rather than providing citizens with the necessary information as quickly as possible. In 2021, EUR 5.8 billion was invested in Hungary, 60% from Asia, 51.9 percent of which were linked to battery production and 12.5 percent to vehicle production. In 2022, 48 percent of the EUR 6.5 billion investment came from Asia, 43 percent related to battery production and 30 percent related to automotive investment. These investments were made with significant State aid. In addition to direct State aid, the various infrastructure aids that still need to be added to the investment are invaluable, whether it is water or energy. These data are not available today. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. If you consider it important to have dialogue, then do so by answering the written questions, as I have turned to several ministers about how much energy and water demand existing and planned battery factories in Hungary have. You refused to give me these data, to hide it. Unfortunately, with regard to the establishment of battery factories, it seems that the comparative advantages of Hungary do not make our country an attractive investment destination, but the most typical advantages of cost-based competition: cheap labour and state aid. Let us not forget that in the European Union, the recycling obligations of battery manufacturers are subject to increasingly stringent rules, and Hungary will not decide on this, and you, Mr State Secretary, are not the result of which Hungary may be forced to accept huge quantities of toxic waste in the future, the cost of which has not even been assessed. Given that neither of the raw materials used for production in our country has a high supplier risk and geopolitical vulnerability. Today, it is not apparent that these battery companies would bring substantial R &amp; D and innovation activities into the country. Many people like to talk about the positive impact these battery factories will have on the labour market. It is enough to see the factory of Samsung in Göd, where the maximum percentage of Hungarian workers is 50 percent, as a result of the expected expansion, this ratio will continue to deteriorate. An electrolyte leakage occurred in the summer of 2021 at that factory. For the first time, the plant tried to conceal dangerous substances in the environment, and unfortunately, it still prevents substantial monitoring of the effects today. [[21.30]] Battery production is extremely natural and dangerous technology, where it is even more important to inform the public, which was not done at Göd. On the other hand, the shadow government discussed the subject responsibly and made the following statements and proposals without the need for completeness, which we also submitted to Parliament as a proposal for a resolution. From an economic and labour market point of view, we consider the government policy implementing the construction of battery plants with significant public resources to be wrong and environmentally dangerous. We are asking for the closure of the currently planned plant investments until all environmental data are made public and, after extensive consultation with the population, the local community does not accept them. In the case of investments that have already been made, mandatory provisions must be made to reduce drinking water consumption, while respecting the strictest environmental requirements in the EU. In addition, the powers of the authorities should be immediately restored to the authorities who have taken it, and it should be prohibited, by amending the law, to allow the government to take away the areas as it pleases, with the title "shape of the special economic zone'. When setting up factories, the environmental impact assessment should always be mandatory, not as it is now, to depend on the authority's discretion, and the social impact assessment should also be a mandatory element of this assessment. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to study the proposal for a resolution that we have presented to you; you also support the submission of the shadow government. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2023-02-27-263	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi for his opening speech. Here you go.
u2023-02-27-264	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, It is very interesting, because the speaker, representing the government, said: "We want high added value jobs, and in such cases one always calms down. It is only worth looking at what is behind the sentence, because if we look behind it, it is worth going, of course, we cannot travel in time, but it would have been worth going to the public hearing in Debrecen. At the public hearing in Debrecen, it was said from the mouth of the CATL representative that he wanted to create 9,000 jobs in Debrecen; the vast majority of these jobs were trained. In Debrecen it was said at the public hearing that the vast majority of 9 000 jobs have been trained, and I have great respect for manual labour and manual workers, but it is worth thinking about and I think that this is our fundamental duty in relation to the battery strategy, whether it is possible to build an economic policy for trained work. It was said that the local greens in Thuringia enjoyed a similar investment. They tried to wash away the differences, and I'm telling you the differences. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] It is therefore a small factory in terms of power and quantity of batteries produced, as opposed to the giant factory in Debrecen, and I think that... [[Nacsa to Lawrence.]] If you press a button, Congressman, you will get a word, I am sure, so the fact is that if you look at the annual precipitation volume of Thuringia and look at the annual precipitation volume of Hajdúság, you will find that more than twice as much precipitation can be expected in Thuringia every year. The fact is that this technology, taking into account the characteristics of the Carpathian Basin, will result in the incredible water supply that we had, and what is running low because of the dwindling Carpathian Basin, will run out, the Carpathian Basin will completely dry out, and the question is that we can take this up for an imaginary advantage. Of course, I think that we can promote competitiveness, we need a good economic policy, but all economic policies depend on the billions invested in education. This would, of course, require an increase in the salaries of teachers, but I think that this idea is very far-reaching. What we could have seen from those speaking on the part of the government was that if we had traveled back in time and looked at one of the production reports of the Hungarian Socialist Workers' Party in the mid-1970s, or rather in the mid-1960s, and it was fortunate that they did not want to go into the production of oranges, because they think they are competitive, because the fact is that our country is not suitable for orange production, nor is it suitable for battery production in terms of its characteristics. And we have not yet talked about the transparency that Prime Minister mentioned in our debate today, where he said that they are obliged to ensure full transparency. You did not come to a committee meeting when you should have come; you do not participate in the common thinking, and you also managed to organise today's debate by having the national expos at 9:30 p.m. Congratulations. This is not transparency, ladies and gentlemen, and I think that if they want a real social debate, for example, all impact assessments should be made public, if any. Dear House, The fact is, I do not think that this is the weakest element of the strategy. The weakest element is waste management, and I think that today we cannot stand up without you giving a clear answer to where, how and how we will manage the incredible amount of hazardous waste generated here because of battery production, because these hazardous waste and this waste will fundamentally affect the future quality of life that we leave for our children and grandchildren. Dear House, I think we have a lot to discuss today, so I'm not stalling, and my time is up anyway. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2023-02-27-265	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the initial speeches by the author. We will now continue our work with the speech of the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Erik Bánki, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2023-02-27-266	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Commission has decided that since 2035 only electric cars can be placed on the market in Europe. To achieve this, we need the best technology known today, i.e. batteries. Batteries play an essential role in electricity supply through their short-term storage function. According to the European Union's green policy decisions, there is currently no marketable alternative to electric cars; there is also a fierce competition for battery companies at global level to find where to plant and where to produce in the future. There is also very serious competition within Europe for who wins these investments. Hungary is ideally positioned on the European battery map, thanks to its central geographical location. A total of EUR 5.3 billion of invested capital since 2016 has resulted in more than 13 000 jobs being created as a result of battery capital investments. In order for these factories to be able to produce on a permanent basis and to satisfy the conditions that the European Union has adopted, these technological investments are necessary for these purposes. Thus, the development of the Hungarian automotive industry and its role in the national economy can be guaranteed for decades, because if there were no battery plant in Hungary, as Prime Minister said in his speech today, the Hungarian automotive companies could stop after 2035 and the jobs of more than 300,000 people would be lost. Dear House, As I have already said, there is a very strong competition throughout the world between European countries, and it is particularly strong to acquire the latest investments in the sector. While in 2011 only one tenth of all cars sold were electric, last year this ratio rose to more than 10 per cent, and in 2030 it is forecast that 55 per cent of all cars rolling down from car production lines will be electric cars. [[21.40]] The European Commission has decided that, as I said, after 2035 only electric cars can be manufactured in Europe. Ecologically sustainable and high-performance battery technology is essential for the mobility of the future, the successful implementation of the green transition and the achievement of a carbon neutral society, which is crucial for the Hungarian economy in terms of the automotive industry. In the electric car industry, electric cars are mainly manufactured by large western companies and electric accumulators by large eastern companies. Ladies and gentlemen, Of the world's ten largest electric battery companies, all ten are eastern: seven are Chinese and three are South Korean. The government's strategic goal was for Western car manufacturers and Eastern battery manufacturers to meet in Hungary. At international level, the United States is preparing significant programmes for greening. It's part of their plan to hold on now. Forty forty! creation of a new battery plant in the United States. About 22 large companies indicated that they would start or expand the production of new electric vehicles. In the middle of February, Ford announced a three-and-a-half-billion-dollar battery plant investment in the state of Michigan with a capacity of 35 gigawatts, and I note that in cooperation with the CATL company that built the Debrecen Battery Factory. Interesting: what is good for Americans in America, the United States, is not good for you in Hungary. Obviously, it would be much better if all such investments were made in the United States of America, but let us not be surprised that the expectations of those who finance you need to be met. Therefore, in the fight against America versus Europe, I see that you have joined and, not surprisingly, you are doing so again at the expense of Hungary. We have heard amazing, infinite untruths here at this stage of the debate, as in this afternoon, Congresswoman Rebecca Szabó was carrying the flag. Congresswoman, have you ever been to a battery factory before? [[Rebecca Szabó intervenes.]] I'd like to invite you to come and see the battery factory in Ivanča. It's in such a state that you can see it. Now hold on. If you go into this battery factory, which, as you say, is as toxic as you said, you can't set up a garden in that site after centuries, hold on, enter such a battery plant, and start wiping the floor with a white cloth, you'll be as white as you started, because it's a closed technology. [[An uproar in the ranks of the opposition.]] It's a closed technology, Congresswoman. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] As you spoke of acids entering the ground, the soil will be poisoned, the soil will be destroyed, and we will poison the whole of Hungary; I swear, I felt as if I saw the Mad Max film: desert everywhere, the entire Carpathian Basin will become a desert, we will destroy the world by building battery factories, while, once again, in the United States, 40 new factories are planned to be built in the near future. In Germany, 14 battery factories are being built, some of them have already been completed and the others are still under investment, and that, no, the miracle of Türingia, which has already been mentioned, was also carried out by the same Chinese factory that is about to build a factory in Debrecen. And I will tell you one more thing, my fellow Members, but the Prime Minister has already said this: the Hungarian regulations contain much stricter provisions than the requirements in Germany. [[Rebecca Szabó: And their enforcement? The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear House, Decarbonisation of the energy system is essential for meeting EU and Hungarian climate protection targets for 2030 and 2050, while the energy price must be safe and affordable for consumers and businesses. This requires increasing energy efficiency, strengthening the competitiveness of the energy system, moving towards energy from sustainable sources rather than from non-renewable fuels. With electricity, we can become step by step independent of fossil fuels without reducing our economic performance by achieving climate neutrality. Using it to reduce fine particle and noise pollution, we can move towards a zero-emission economic system. Sustainable batteries will play a key role in meeting the growing demand for electricity. The use of batteries in two areas is of paramount importance for achieving our medium- and long-term climate policy objectives, without them these functions are hardly possible: energy storage, so that it can be used later when and where it is most needed, is key to increasing renewable energy production and energy security. Global demand for batteries is increasing so rapidly, given that more and more renewable energy can be integrated into our energy systems and can thus further boost the industrial and transport sector and have an impact on electrification of other sectors. The Hungarian Government agrees with the importance and urgency of combating climate change, recognising that climate change is one of the most serious problems of our time. Our country's climate policy must be in line with our international and EU climate commitments, but we must not ignore national interests and specificities. We believe that climate neutrality must be achieved in such a way as to ensure security of supply, a fair transition and economic development. Ladies and Gentlemen, It is important to note that any investment, such as the construction of the Debrecen plant, can only be carried out in Hungary if the environmental and safety standards are as strict as possible. This is also the case for electric battery factories promoted by the European Commission, and even the investments in question must comply with stricter environmental conditions in Debrecen, as I mentioned, as in Germany, for example, because Hungarian environmental legislation is stricter than German. All plants must comply with strict domestic and EU legislation, which are constantly monitored by the authorities and are accountable to companies investing in us. And it is simply not true that in these factories the batteries will be recycled. If you were interested in the truth for a moment, you would know exactly, because you would have read the Debrecen authority license. [[Rebecca Szabó: We've read it!]] in which it appears... You didn't read it, Congresswoman, if you had read it, you wouldn't have said such crazy things. How exactly did you say that? [[Zoltán Varga intervenes.]] Hundreds of thousands of tons of batteries will be recycled annually. It's not in the permit, Congresswoman. [[An uproar in opposition ranks.]] no battery can be recycled in these plants. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] These are facts, fellow Members. I know you don't care, but it's still real.
u2023-02-27-267	Let's keep the order.
u2023-02-27-268	Just like the madness that the congresswoman also said about installing the Debrecen battery plant in the best land in the country. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If you look at it, but the Debrecen will obviously say that for me, then this investment will take place in an area that is, by the way, a deep inland area, and the congresswoman says, once again, not knowing the law that this is contrary to the law on the protection of agricultural land. It does not disagree, Congresswoman, but is in line with the fact that the humus layer must be removed from these areas. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] and then put the humus layer back on the ground in the same area where there is no investment. [[The president's ringing again.]] So no gram of land leaves this area, but I know you don't care about reality. I would ask you to consider changing your position, saving an extremely important sector from a national perspective, and your future. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-27-269	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Varga, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2023-02-27-270	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I'm Debrecen, and I'm glad two Fidesz Members of Debrecen are sitting here, and they're probably gonna confirm what I'm saying. I am bringing the message of the mothers of Micker and Debrecen between the walls of the House, especially the fact that no one in Debrecen disputes the need for electromobility, no one in Debrecen said a word about the need for batteries. In Debrecen, all we're saying is that Debrecen is incapable of building a battery plant there. It could be built on Felcsut or Hatvanpuszta, that's what the Debrecen mothers think, if they really want it, they're so in love with this battery factory and the CATL. I would like to open a parenthesis: in the summer of last year, CATL closed a battery factory in China because the provincial party secretary said that such an environmental-destructive battery factory could not be operated there without endangering the health of those living there. They shut down the battery company there, you want to reopen it here. For a long time we wondered why in Debrecen, and then we realized that the reason Putin got the honorary title in Debrecen was because he became a professor in Debrecen. [[21.50]] Because they believed that since you believe Debrecen is the guard city of Fidesz, the people of Debrecen can swallow everything. Well, it turns out I didn't. But let's stick to Debrecen for a second. What does Debrecen look like? And I'm not gonna say that, I'm gonna quote your two party mates. János Fónagy, I suppose everyone has it. 2001. CHAPTER VI János Fónagy, Minister of Transport and Water at the time, said in a debate here in Parliament on the 1st of the month, that the use of groundwater resources in Debrecen is limited, because excessive water extraction causes permanent sinking of layers and groundwater. At that time, in 2001, there were six huge lakes in the vicinity of Debrecen. Then in Debrecen the oaks of the Great Forest were not yet destroyed. Since then, two decades have passed, the lakes have vanished, the forests of Debrecen are practically grass-wrecked prairie, and I must add that the tavern oaks of the Great Forest are dying, because the groundwater levels are deep below the groundwater level in 2001 and have fallen almost four metres since then. But I'll tell you another one, see if I recognize this one. László Papp, mayor of the city of Debrecen, is a very close date: 2022. CHAPTER III 29, not a year. What did the mayor of Debrecen's anti-Debrecen say then? What do you think? Hold on. 34 percent of Debrecen is a forest, which is very difficult to maintain in a city without water. In August 2022, three months passed, four, five, and László Papp became interestingly enlightened. He suddenly realized that Debrecen had huge water supplies that could be used safely, and that there was a Chinese battery factory that could be taught here. Why did this turnaround happen? Because his boss at the Carmelite Monastery put him on the edge of the carpet and told him that a battery factory was being built in Debrecen if the hell he was eating. The mayor of the city of Debrecen came to light and said everything was fine in Debrecen. And let me tell you a few more details about the city when I live there: in Debrecen, the air has been showing the extent of dangerous pollution for a long, long period of months. It's dangerous right now! It's bad for your health, because it's lying in a bleacher. We were talking about a green light. Yeah, the CATL says it's green. The only thing they forget is that the CATL added to this, which seems to be that while the transition from their side to global green, it is extremely environmentally stressful. This is acknowledged by the factory's executives themselves: locally environmentally stressing. Of course, this can be enhanced: environmentally destructive, dangerous, harmful to health, and the rest, and so on. You say that you really don't have to worry, because everything can be below the limit. The paper can carry everything we see, because since the first documents in November, for example, the water use of the CATL factory has changed six times in both paper and communication. But let's see what we're talking about. The CATL has committed 507,000 tonnes of greenhouse gas emissions per year in its environmental documents. 507,000 tons! Each day, 350 twenty tons of saddle tow will be delivered to the factory every day. Every day! On Christmas, New Year's Eve, New Year's Eve, and even on Viktor Orbán's birthday, with 350 trucks every day. Unfortunately, I had to contact the director of the CATL for government relations because the government is hopelessly lying and lying about the Fidesz leadership of the municipality of Debrecen, whatever data we ask. So I sent a letter to the CATL leaders asking whether what they said was true, namely that they follow the philosophy of a good neighbour around factories around the world and always regard the well-being of local residents as a priority. So I asked them a few things that we've never been given any meaningful answers to. There was no response to the use of water, because first they said that 24,000 cubic meters per day, then 3600 cubic metres per day, then 40-60 thousand cubic metres per day already published in a study ordered by the city, which the mayor of the city, László Papp, had been removed from the website in about half a day, and now the 3600 cubic metres has been restored again. But what is it about? Now it is the government narrative that László Papp regularly uses to use gray water. All right, let's make it gray water, but gray water needs to build its network there. Who's gonna build it? Where are you going? Has the expropriation started on the properties where this gray water network is going to go? Who's gonna pay for it? I asked the mayor, he didn't know. I asked the government, they didn't want to tell me. I asked the CATL, he said he had nothing to do with it, so I asked someone else. I asked the director of the Debrecen Waterworks what he thought. He said he's a professional, he doesn't know, ask some politician. Please, this is where we are. They're talking about gray water, but there's no gray water anywhere but in the story. They know where he was, where he wasn't, there was no gray water, because no one's going to sign up for the gray water in the factory. The factory said they'd think about it, maybe they'll use it, they'll see. And what is most interesting: I asked the factory representative in a letter, tell me where this 350 trucks a day will go, what route they will transport this toxic raw material, where they will even bring the raw material into the country, where they will mix this raw material into raw material, place it on trucks, where the logistics will be, where it will be depositioned. The factory managers said that they would probably bring it either from the Germans or from Poland, but now hold on to it, because this will be a new information they want to build at the southern border of Debrecen, a factory that will produce the raw materials. Once again, they will build a new battery factory that will be much, much more dangerous than the mother factory itself. It's just that politics is very quiet, and everyone is very quiet. Ladies and Gentlemen, There's a lot more I can talk about. The fact that the CATL plant in Türingia, Germany, is in fact only 20 percent producing and 80 percent in research and development. I could talk about the Chinese partner's commitment to provide energy for himself and not get a single kilowatt hour from the outside. I could talk about the fact that Türingia is a well-watered area, while Debrecen has no water, no energy, no air. You want to put a factory on our backs. Shame on you, that's all I can say. Shame on you so much. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-02-27-271	Dear Parliament, A speech will be made by Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, Member of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2023-02-27-272	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In recent years, we have become accustomed to the opposition always saying that we are not doing anything for a green transition, while criticizing all our concrete decisions and actions, or trying to make it impossible as an option B. The Hungarian government has always and will continue to look after the interests of the Hungarian people when making their decisions. For if you read more about the Fundamental Law in Hungary, you would be aware of the right to a healthy environment, which will complement the right to physical and mental health, which will be helped by, among other things, by ensuring access to healthy food and drinking water, by organising work protection and health care, and by ensuring the protection of the environment. On this basis, it is completely nonsense to think that the authorities operating in the territory of our country are carrying out their activities contrary to the objectives set out in our Fundamental Law. Furthermore, as in all investments, the rules and environmental standards for battery factories must be very strict in order to obtain government support at all. [[22.00]] The aim of these laws is to protect the Hungarian population and our environment, which is complemented by a multi-stage authorisation process we have not heard from the opposition today. This means that battery production is a pre-test activity in which the environmental authority has to examine whether the planned investment may result in significant environmental impacts that require the environmental impact assessment process to be carried out. [[Bence of Turdai: No need, leave it!]] There may also be a need for a common authorisation procedure for the use of the environment for certain parts of battery production and related activities. Where both procedures are necessary for a given factory, the investor may also request the consolidated implementation of these two procedures. Moreover, the investor has the possibility to request the two procedures to be carried out instead of conducting the preliminary investigation procedure. The objective of our more stringent technological regulations than in Europe is to ensure that water pollution cannot occur under normal operation. The factory designed in Debrecen would also operate according to the principles of state-of-the-art technologies, in a closed system, where the cooling water used is cleaned locally. Ladies and gentlemen, In explaining the need for political debate, you wrote that installing battery factories in Hungary will lead to an increase in the vulnerability of the Hungarian economy. They claim that while in Western Europe they are only enjoying the benefits of electric cars, I congratulate you on this high level of wording. This is also without any foundation, since, on the one hand, the company that would build a factory in Debrecen, as many of my fellow Members have already said, handed over a similar type of factory in Türingia, Germany, where the local, also left-wing and green coalition governments explicitly support the construction of the plant at the end of last year. Germany intends to increase its battery production capacity by 16 times, as has also been said. In addition, battery production capacity is planned to be built in 16 European countries by 2030; Sweden, Finland, Norway, Switzerland, Italy. Are these countries, by your definition, no longer part of Western Europe? Furthermore, it is clear from the announcement of a number of investments that we are talking about a sector whose centres in Europe are developing now, so it is important to have a seat at the table and not to deprive ourselves of this economic opportunity. In my view, this does not preserve the break-off of our country, as you say, but rather contributes to the reduction or elimination of this break-off. Ladies and gentlemen, In this text, you called the current battery technology and e-caring a temporary solution, but from 2035 onwards internal combustion engines can no longer be placed on the market in the European Union. Car manufacturing accounts for almost 20 percent of domestic GDP, so it is important that we participate in the electric car transition if we want to maintain jobs and create new jobs in the future. The fact that CATL is one of the most innovative players in this area contributes greatly to this. It is also leading in the production of new technologies, such as sodium ion batteries, so they can also secure their share in future automotive production with their domestic presence. At the same time, the electric switch is not only affecting passenger cars, the demand for these types of products is increasing with the popularity of e-rollers and bicycles. Moreover, larger car companies are already targeting the electric solution to freight transport. Ladies and gentlemen, In this document, you state that if climate protection is the goal, driving is not the solution, even if electric, parentheses are closed, but the development of public transport, cycling and vehicle sharing. Thank you very much for the proposals, but these programmes have been under way for a long time from the Hungarian government. In the spring, for example, the tenement of the county and country, which contributes to improving the mobility of the population, will take effect. [[Eva Scars intervenes.]] This is done by promoting more environmentally friendly rail and bus transport with favourable prices. However, several points in the climate and nature conservation action plan launched in 2020 aim at greening road transport by reforming the electromobility system and with the Green Bus programme, which has already resulted in nearly one and a half hundred new buses. The development of railway infrastructure is also underway, since nearly 1,100 km of railway track has been renewed since 2010, and since 2018, the government has spent 10-12 billion a year to develop our bicycle routes outside EU funds. Furthermore, according to the EU's green policy decisions, there is actually no alternative to electric motoring at present. This is why the international competition is so great that these factories can move to. Thus, the fact that Hungary is fighting for this during its establishment is a truly important Hungarian interest. A radical political approach to the issue of battery companies makes it impossible to have a real dialogue with the population. I think it is important that we answer the questions of Hungarian citizens in good faith on a specific and professional basis in order to provide accurate information, and do not scare them with disinformation, because this is a political gain and nothing more. In recent months, for example, extreme claims have been made regarding the water demand of the investment in Debrecen, but by the time actual data were published that more than 70 percent of the investment's water demand would be carried out with so-called "grey water" as planned, the population in Debrecen was already concerned about its stable water supply in the future, because you did your best to raise fear. The main aim of grey water use is to reduce the industrial demand for water in the zones, to replace it with grey water, thereby also protecting the drinking water base and reducing the environmental burden. Ladies and gentlemen, With this mentality, which you represent, you are not moving the matter forward, because they want to use their political goals in such ways; this is not happening with the interests of Hungarian people in mind. We, pro-government representatives, are committed to achieving our climate and environmental goals and improving the environment and living conditions of the Hungarian population. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-27-273	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Éva Sebők, the lead speaker of the Momentum Group. Here you go.
u2023-02-27-274	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, I'll be brief. Momentum's position is clear: in Hungary there is no place for water-eating, water-polluting and environmental-destructive battery factories in Debrecen, Göd, Győr, Kistelken, or anywhere else. But before I go into the details, let's talk a little bit about... [[Lajos Kósa: Can't you do it in Felcsú? A statement from the opposition: Yes, it can be Felcsút! Intercoms. Eva Scars to the President:]] I think the gentleman wanted a tinkling here... [[Intercoms. Dr. István Apáti: You have to talk to the big boss and go!]] What are we trying to do here? Let's face it today. From a late-night debate? There could be an argument here that suddenly brings Mr Dömötör to his heart. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] and rethink all the silly things you said at the beginning of the debate? [[István Hollik: Come on, Csaba! Nacsa Lőrinc: I'm sorry, Csaba.]] Could you argue here that Mr. Kósa embraces the idea that perhaps the Debrecen should be asked? Could there be an argument here that makes Mr Bánki feel that the fines for Samsung are not effective enough compared to what Samsung has done and what Samsung is looking for? I think it is safe to say, opposition and pro-government representatives, that anything can be said here, that any fact can be revealed, that anything can be proved, that anything can be matured, that nothing in this world will change on the part of pro-government politicians. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: What about the opposition?]] [[22.10]] From here on out, I don't really see the point. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: What about the opposition?]] To get into more detail. I think that the Debrecen battery plant, as the other battery companies are not here, will not resolve such a dispute. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You initiated it!]] Instead, the Momentum initiated a local referendum, which was successfully cancelled by the local election committee near NER. Of course we'll attack that. We are also attacking the environmental impact assessment, because it is a tool that we may be able to achieve something. Besides, on Saturday, we'll be out on the street with the Debrecen. We think we can achieve a meaningful result here. Let's face it, these actions make sense, and Parliament's debates like today do not make sense. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You initiated it!]] There would be a normal functioning democracy, but today we have not lived in a normally functioning democracy in Hungary for 13 years. We are doing everything we can to force the referendum in Debrecen, we are doing everything we can to prevent this assassination that is about to take place against the future of Hungary. And thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-02-27-275	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Imre Komjathi, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2023-02-27-276	Thank you for the floor. I took the mike apart a little bit. [[Eve Scars is leaving the Chamber. Lajos Kósa: Good night. Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] Ladies and gentlemen,
u2023-02-27-277	Put your microphone back on. You're better off. Feel free to record it, we'll wait for it, because it'll be very confusing for the intermediaries to signal. We'll restore time. [[Imre Komjathi puts his microphone on his jacket.]]
u2023-02-27-278	Thank you very much. It's okay.
u2023-02-27-279	All right. Let's get the clock back on. [[It's happening.]]
u2023-02-27-280	Ladies and gentlemen, Since last year's elections here at my new job, I've been monitoring who works in what field, who knows what, who does what. I respect the fact that I work here with people from all these areas, some people know about health care, some people know about environmental protection. [[Dr. István Apáti: Some people do nothing. István Hollik: Some to everything.]] But one thing I would like to ask you very much: if this is about industry and manufacturing, then listen to me. I worked in the chemical industry for 33 years, entered the door of a chemical factory in 85, and worked there for 33 years, first as a locksmith, then as a chemical process manager. So I have some insight into dangerous materials. I have a view of dangerous substances, which we practically bathed in until we joined the EU. So I can't tell you how many more years I can enjoy the fact that I'm not gonna have liver cancer, because at the time, no one really cared about what materials and how the worker works. Just as they didn't even care that I think there is still mercury under Kazincbarcika to this day; they didn't even care that Sajó was contaminated at such a level that there was no more wildlife in it. But now in Kazincbarcika, there's a chemical factory, people live next to it, and they feel safe. Do you know why? Because there is transparency, there is dialogue; there are two trade unions in the company; they know that the workers there, and they know that there are gas sensors around the factory, from which, if only one of them announces, the factory dispatcher has no discretion, they must send out chemical decompressors even if it may have been a faulty signal. That's what's missing, please understand that, transparency, sense of security, trust. But it is not possible to build confidence that, when Minister Palkovic, when he was still Minister of Innovation and Technology, we asked questions about the number of OSH inspections in the government's strategic partners over the last three years, we were told that the average/strategic partner was 0.98 per year. Safety checks in factories where they work with dangerous materials! So understand, if you want to have confidence in people, for example, you need to tighten it up first, agree that only with regard to strategic partners, OSH checks. Or, for example, the Samsung factory in Göd simply found out how many people work, that there was a conversation where the head of disaster control was there, and said that about 3,500 people and, by the way, about 40 percent of Hungarians, 94 inhabitants of Göd. But why does a strategic partner have to keep secrets like that? I'd love to go with Erik Bánki and Lajos Kósa or anyone, organize it, go see the factory in Ivanča, see the Samsung factory in Göd. They won't let us in, because they know that what we see there makes us horrified. And believe me that I will never speak against the development of the Hungarian industry, because I know that there is a need for jobs, but it is not possible to build battery factories here until you build confidence, a sense of security, the security that workers will not leave their healthy liver and lungs in the factory; the security that workers from third countries, who come from a culture where they do not know about work protection, do not know overtime, will not bring the Hungarian culture of work to such a level that employers will not apply the same thing as they do with them. That is why, Hungarian socialists, we say that workers from third countries cannot be employed only in a workplace where there is a collective agreement, because then this applies equally to everyone. Of course, that is because there is a collective agreement only if there is a union. That is why I think it is important for you to support the fact that, for example, strategic partners have organised labour relations, to support trade unions, because then there is trust again, there is dialogue, and then people may not be so involved in a new factory, and it doesn't matter whether they are now a battery factory or a chemical factory against a factory. And there is one more important thing: instead of growing battery factories on greasy Hungarian soil, let wheat be added to it and make it a good bread! I understand, Prime Minister, you said here that, well, we are forced to build factories on greasy Hungarian soil sometimes. No. Appreciate the greasy Hungarian soil! To me, my father worked in action, he was a tractor, a combiner, and he had all the land and bread, so it's just as important to me as it is to me. Let there be good Hungarian wheat on the greasy Hungarian soil, which will become good Hungarian bread! But having some kind of dialogue between us is a prerequisite for us to listen to each other and not laugh at who has what fears. Yes, there are fears, because there is no trust. Therefore, I would like to make some suggestions. The MSZP has made a proposal for a resolution to this House. On this basis, the feasibility of battery factories to be set up or to be extended within 12 kilometres of the area intended for installation would be subject to the following conditions: the building permit of the battery plant is conditional on the voters of the settlement affected by the site of construction to support implementation and enlargement through a valid local referendum. And once again, there is no need to be afraid of a local referendum if there is trust and transparency and there is dialogue. The condition of enlargement is that the battery plant has fully complied with the relevant environmental and labour standards in its previous operation, in the event of the establishment of a new plant, the investor will allow a particular monitoring of compliance with these standards and will finance it from its own budget. Construction or enlargement shall not be permitted in agricultural areas with an average golden crown of more than 25 per hectare. Tell me honestly: which of these is not eligible, which is not in the interests of the Hungarian nation, which is not in the interests of Hungarian workers? I think all three are eligible, but unfortunately, I will use the suspect suit, if we go to a committee meeting, it will be swept down just as they did this morning in the Committee on Enterprise Development, which was about the safety of Hungarian workers in the same way. [[22.20]] I kept talking to the people there about people, about safety, about labour, labour, health and livelihood security. Compared to this, the government representatives there heard one word of it, the money, the support these companies and those companies receive. Yes, once they receive support and know that there is competition and that they must receive support, they should have the duty of a dog in a strategic partnership contract not only to guarantee how they support local sport and culture, but also to support the workers there. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2023-02-27-281	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. Here you go.
u2023-02-27-282	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to welcome my fellow Members to the late hour and to the late opening of this parliamentary season, which is why we talked about the battery factory a week ago. I would like to start by clarifying our positions, because it is very important for a legitimate discussion. I myself have dealt with a lot of multi-business and economy, but, frankly, I have come to know the subject of battery factories in some freshness, and there are a lot of us in this room. I did not choose to read about various dangerous substances on the Internet, but when my faction gave me the assignment to deal with this subject, I tried to throw myself into it and accepted the invitations that came to public hearings or events where I was deeply and more competent than I. Therefore, I see that there is an unconditional support position on the part of the government, and there is a position on the part of the opposition, and on the part of the left-wing parties that is actually exclusively close to environmental considerations, on the other hand, on the basis of very well-founded concerns, and I share most of them. At the same time, I see that it is basically also a question of economic philosophy. We have examined the composition of the workforce in these factories and the planned plants, and we have seen that typically people with 12-hour shifts and typically primary education work in these places along a relatively closed-chain technology. Thus, even compared to car factories and car assembly plants, there is less supply opportunities and less space for Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in order to obtain some sort of order for this whole system. On the basis of these experiences, I say that I do not understand the government: if there really is nothing to hide here, then this question could be handled much more elegantly, much more flexibly and much better. When a public hearing starts at 8:00 a.m. on Friday morning, placed on a date that local citizens, civil society leaders or environmental workers are not able to participate in this, typically when they are working, it is much harder for them than it is for me to go to such an invitation, then the person wakes up to what they want to hide. And it may even be nothing, just very unfortunate both behavior, approach and even the whole procedure. In fact, the public hearing took place a few days before environmental and other permits were issued. It was quite clear that there was nothing to be affected by the required public hearing and the retention of a serious question after several hours of discussion, but the license could already have been written, perhaps even the seal on it a day later. At the same time, we can see that some of the professional doubts could be resolved quite simply. If Gödön is said and this is, isn't it, a documented fact that the residue of dangerous substances or solvents appeared in one of these monitoring wells in the area, and then it was buried two years later, as the locals say, then the question arises as to why this issue is not so important for the government to build a system of monitoring wells in all the affected areas. This, I assume, would not consume more than HUF 1-2-3 billion from the central budget, and some or all of these debates might make it unnecessary, as it might show that the environment around the given battery plant is not as polluted as the local civilians think. Otherwise, I have no reason to dispute the findings of civilians or even self-cost measurements, but why doesn't the government dissipate doubts by using the central budget to finance the achievement of reassuring test results. Otherwise, they could be carried out as such blind tests in such a way that the investor or the quoted investor or multi-company does not know in advance when the checkers will arrive. This would be particularly justified in the case of noise loads and, otherwise, in the case of noise loads beyond the limit. I also do not understand in the behaviour of the government what aspect is involved in building these plants on populated areas. So why couldn't we just make a perfectly simple regulation? Yes, it would be more expensive for the multi-company, for the investor, but if there were a limit of one kilometer or a few hundred metres from the residential area, then yes, that additional cost would, if appropriate, be reflected in the introduction of the infrastructure, but a lot of complaints from the public could be prevented. I personally visited Göd and Komárom. In some periods, it is really not a pleasant experience to be a few hundred meters away from such a manufacturer. What it's like to live there, maybe I can't imagine, but we're also seeing something here that can really, really simply resolve doubts. I think it is a bad analogy for both the Thuringians and the various Germans, since there were industrial areas where the conditions were right, but the population in the area is not very well found, there is research rather than production or production to a lesser extent, it is not certain that this is comparable to Hungarian relations. But what we can see is that there was a battery factory where they complained that the limit values were measured separately per unit of plant, and it is assumed that if we add these limits together, there would be a whole different outcome. Overall, what made me particularly think, and this also showed at ministerial level who was going to work there for Debrecen. We heard it during the BMW investment, and I was pleased personally that the mobile labour force in the area was able to place a large part of itself, and this fell into the period prior to the discussion or announcement of the battery plant investment, when it turned out that there were still 9,000 workers' hands. And I asked you honestly at the ministerial hearing, "Where are you gonna get it?" I got an answer that's supposed to be from Bihar County. If, say, our cross-border Hungarian brothers came here to find their calculations, I would have no objection to that, it is important to state this, but I assume that there will be a very large number of residents of the third world's container cities, and those migrant workers whose presence is ultimately indirectly supported by Hungarian taxpayers from their tax forints. What we see is that by February 22, only the three South Korean factories have received budget support of more than HUF 138 billion, and if we add the amount of individual government decisions to the infrastructure discounts and other tax incentives, so there are a great variety of items for these subsidies, we will reach an amount that, by the end of this year, is likely to exceed HUF 400 billion that these battery companies will receive. If we break this down to jobs, we may have a flaw in our thinking, because a few years ago, it is no longer a requirement to create new jobs in return for grants, but I do think that it is a world that is not accessible to Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that opens up in the case of multi-enterprises. Once again, the Prime Minister said that they are thinking in packages and are trying to win the working capital in this way, but I am getting you to leave the Hungarian taxpayers' money out of the package in this way. We do not know the multi-world as they are motivated by these grants, but rather by the predictable legal environment, or by the absence of access to the tax system three times a year, and, let us say, it is not possible that in a few weeks the kata will cease to be effective, just because someone thinks it is more effective. So I think that we should not use Hungarian taxpayers' money to support mass migrant imports. In this regard, we have formulated our proposal called the Hungarian quota. I am basically opposed to almost any quota, but I can be open to the Hungarian quota, because it is about giving any kind of state aid only to a company that undertakes to employ 90 percent and 95 percent of Hungarian employees in the EEA. [[22.30]] So we do not want to support the organised import of guest workers, which has appeared not only around battery factories, but there are a lot of container cities in the country, and indeed the data in the Göd have been sobering. Before the enlargement, it was revealed that 94 of the more than 3,000 workers were in the Göd, but there were still a few hundred of the settlements in the area, but now, in terms of the number of workers over 6,000 after the enlargement, the number of Gödians is still under 300. So it can be seen that these investments are not a local successful model; especially if the business tax does not arrive at the surrounding settlement, but, where appropriate, to the Fidesz majority county centre, from which Göd may not be at the beginning of the line in terms of redistribution. 80% of these concerns could be eliminated if appropriate government communication were to be achieved. So I urge you to discuss these conditions one by one. Consider that only if the local community is strengthened in a referendum, and if there is a sufficient distance from the populated area, similar investments can be made, even if the environmental treasures can be protected in a demonstrable way and the necessary soothing investigations are financed by the central budget. I know what I'm asking for is science fiction, but if it all comes true, then we can calmly support such investments in bulk. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In the meantime, I have a serious concern that, with low added value and Hungarian talent and diligence, we will treat this with insufficient respect if we become a large power of the battery plant. The Hungarian skull deserves much more. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President.
u2023-02-27-283	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Apáti, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Group. Here you go.
u2023-02-27-284	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, It is very interesting to see those pro-government politicians hiding behind Brussels or Brussels arguments, who, if they were serious, would do the right thing or do the right thing when they face the most whimsical ideas in Brussels. As regards the 2035 deadline, namely that only electric cars can be placed on the market from then on, this proves the level of incompetence of the decision-makers in Brussels and the fact that unfortunately, in Brussels, the majority of the decision-making positions are people for whom my dear late father's grandfather would have said, I quote, I would not tie most of them into the pen. At such a spiritual level and inanimately thinking individuals make serious decisions. By the 2035 deadline, it's really hard to say anything. So anyone who believes that can make more serious mistakes. It is completely unviable, it will be amended fifty-five times, extending this 2035 deadline, since it is not even in the developed Western European countries, let alone in Eastern Europe, especially in Hungary. Of course, it can now be thrown in as an argumentary, but it is far from any kind of reality. It is also very interesting that Fidesz and KDNP politicians would often have the right to criticize, of course, if they were serious about criticising Germany's economic and social planning ideas, the politics of North America, especially the United States, but now they are a good example when it is necessary to justify the installation of batteries. In North America, 55 plants are being built in Germany and 13 plants are being built, according to the argument made by the Secretary of State of Hungary Levente, if I remember correctly, the 23rd planned for Hungary seems to be disproportionately disproportionate compared to this. The strict nature of environmental standards and their compliance or enforcement is precisely shown by the Gödian example, where a monitoring well is buried, where part of the plant's plants can operate without a permit, without any authorisation. If an average Hungarian voter expands his own family house without permission, he will either be demolished, or he will be punished with severe fines, or both at the same time. Compared to this, such a plant is partially built without permission and operates without authorisation, it can do this with the support of very strict, politically-managed Hungarian authorities. As regards the protection of agricultural land, it is likely that the number of opposition criticisms falling on the government would be lower or less if, say, five crowned pastures were spotted or targeted for this purpose. If it were far from populated areas, if it were not to endanger drinking water bases from a quantitative and qualitative point of view, then... like Tesla does in the United States, plant plants in desert areas, where it does not pose any threat to nearby or remote settlements. As far as the job creation arguments are concerned, there are 9,000 people employed by the Chinese, BMW and Semcorp for their investments, with a sum total of 21,000 workers, neither in Debrecen nor in Hajdú-Bihar County, nor in the neighbouring county. It is clear that the vast majority of this number of 9 000 or 21,000 will be recruited from abroad, at worst from the third world, which, to this extent, will not only cause work organisation problems but also public safety and transport problems in the second largest city in Hungary. And that, by the way, is a serious economic philosophy difference, a significant difference between Fidesz and Mi Hazan, that you think that we should be powerful in battery manufacturing, that you want to turn this country into a big power in battery manufacturing, and we think that we should become a great power in the food industry, a great power in food processing. Hungary's potential is for this, Hungary should be at the forefront of this, because of the simple connection that, however we stick it or try to screw it, we can live without batteries and without food. But it seems to have a government interest in this. I would ask the Secretary of State, Magyar Levente, how the unquenchable passion of the government for the construction of battery factories could be related to the already received and to the Chinese loans to be taken on. Are these two things related to each other? In other words, you can tell the Hungarian government, whether on a ministerial or a prime minister level, that they can only obtain certain preferential or less preferential Chinese loans, which may be particularly useful if the funds in Brussels are finally stuck, only if such battery factories are built, because, let's say, we are living with the suspicion that there may be such links. What happened at the public hearing in Debrecen on 20 January is perhaps halfway between tragedy and comedy, but there is too much desire to smile: from 1000 cubic meters per hour to 40,000 cubic meters per day or up to use, everything has been said by the authorities. One said they use drinking water, the other said they use gray water. The same is true for cooling: according to one, drinking water quality water is used and another, gray water is used for cooling. There's been an amazing mess in Babel. The authorities have shown complete unpreparedness. They couldn't tell the representatives of disaster management what the technology was all about. There was a retired gentleman with experience in this matter, asking straight questions about how many wise guys would tell us what technology is all about. The Chinese didn't know, the Hungarian representatives of the Chinese didn't know, the leaders of the authorities didn't know. It's a shame. They burned up about six to seven o'clock in the evening because they couldn't give any meaningful answers. The Chinese didn't bother to hire a capitalized company to hire an interpreter. They didn't bother to say "yes" or "no" to a perfectly simple question. They sat there in an insulting, outrageous way in relation to the colonial and colonial relationship, laughing, but did not bother to respond in substance in the debate. They didn't insult me, they insulted the Debrecen with their incredibly disrespectful behavior. But one thing has not been said here by the representatives of the left-wing parties, and also by you, that if everything is so fine, everything is so great, the regulations are so strong, they will enforce it with the Chinese, if this factory may be built, all the regulations: why can't you run into the referendum? How is it that while the left-wing parties here perform their heroic attempt to prevent this investment, the only question left standing is that last Wednesday, all questions were obviously rejected by the local electoral committee in Debrecen, Thursday morning at 8:30 p.m., our Hungary submitted the new referendum issue, which is also spookily similar to a question that was accepted once before, passed, approved, endorsed. I wonder if this is rejected, how will the election committee, which once passed in the fall or very similar, explain why it may bleed to death in the early spring. So if everything is so well, why don't you let the people of Debrecen comment on it? And then everyone can relax. Because if you cannot gather a sufficient number of signatures, then you are right, if the referendum is assembled and announced, then it will certainly show that the people of Debrecen support or oppose this investment. And then you may well be right, but you may easily suffer a defeat in the capital of Fidesz, which you are obviously afraid of. [[22.40]] After all, there would be a referendum not only on a gigantic investment, but also on the government's economic philosophy, the government's economic policy, which would in effect decide the issue of these battery factories at national level. So I ask with respect that, if everything is so well, and if you are so great democrats, because during the opposition period you have not prevented the construction of a battery factory, a tire factory, from being interesting, you did not have such concerns, then it did not matter about job creation, it didn't matter any other aspects, it was a factory that was partially polluting, let's say, compared to the Debrecen battery plant, that you tell me why, then, by every means of which it is possible, you are going to prevent the launch and holding of this referendum, and why you are not trying to turn Hungary into a large power in the food industry, not a large power in the food processing industry, but rather, you are trying to undermine the country into a simple assembly plant. Excellent land of hair and other crops with God's gift will be sacrificed on the altar of a fad that may be lost after a trend in ten years' time, and in ten years' time we will be talking about something else. Not to mention, a battery-powered or electric car is much more responsible for the environment than a conventional car. 80-90 percent of a conventional vehicle can be recycled, only 45-50 percent of an electric car, so put that into the argument. Don't just show me the arguments that seem to support your point. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-02-27-285	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Bence Tordai, the lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue. Here you go.
u2023-02-27-286	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Congressman and Secretary of State Ladies and Gentlemen! In the beginning, let me ask you a riddle: where do I quote? The water bases in Debrecen are a sensitive category. The area is poor in surface waters, and the annual rainfall is one of the least in the country. Climate change will have a significant impact on our waters, which can also cause confusion in the water supply of settlements, so it is already appropriate to support and disseminate water-saving water use. In the eastern outskirts of the city there are several artificial well-being reservoirs, whose water level has become extremely volatile in recent years due to the fluctuations in the almost only water supply precipitation, already endangering their role in recreation and nature conservation. The increase in the impact of climate change is expected to make the situation worse if no action is taken to counterbalance it. Due to changes in environmental conditions, the decline in groundwater levels, more gentle precipitation, more frequent droughts, the survival of indigenous forest stocks is increasingly at risk. A prime example of this is the Great Forest. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, So where did the quote come from? [[Robert Zsigor: From your speech.]] Not from my speech, it wouldn't be a quote, unfortunately, it's a bad guess, Congressman, not from the material of a opposition party, not from the campaign material of a civil society organization, not even from Lajos Kósa, but it's coming, lukewarm, you could say, Lajos Kósa as a tip. So, it comes from the debrecen municipality's climate strategy in 2020. So what's... [[Máté Kanász-Nagy: What?]] Right, right, right? ! What did the city fathers and city mothers in Debrecen know in 2020 when they created and adopted the climate strategy and forgot when they suddenly had to support this great battery factory? So Fidesz and the Fidesz city administration knew precisely that the CATL factory did not belong in Debrecen or we call it CATL, where everywhere else is said outside the meeting room. So if the most important environmental problem of a city, an area, is the lack of water, then obviously it should not be a factory with insatiable water demand. Let us be a little more specific about how much water this investment would eat. It is stated in the very difficult environmental permit that the peak water demand will be 6242 cubic metres per day and the average water consumption will be 3378 cubic metres per day. It doesn't seem so much for Debrecen to use 40-60 thousand liters of water a day, but the problem is... [[Nacsa Lawrence: Cup meters! Expertise!]] Cup meters, that's it! [[Lajos Kósa: It doesn't matter...]] It doesn't really matter, it's a thousand times the odds, yeah. Well, I'm glad Lajos Kósa is watching, so this water demand, if you compare it to the city's water demand, may seem to be small, but unfortunately the problem is that it's not true. So if you look at the Battery Factory in Göd, Samsung, it uses 27,000 cubic meters of water per day, multiple times the city that lives and operates next to it, and this data is completely synchronized with literature data, so it's probably closer to reality. But let us also go to the Orbán government's e-mobility strategy, which says that if the planned battery plants are built, the water demand in Hungary will increase by 10 percent. And, well, there was this expert material that probably created a realistic picture of the expected water demand, and what was removed within a few hours was busy hands close to Fidesz from the Internet, but the Internet doesn't forget, right, so there's 40-60 thousand cubic meters a day, that's what the CATL plant would expect to use. [[Lajos Kósa: That's the city's water demand...]] No, it's exactly the same, that's it, very good, Lajos Kósa helped me interpret it. So this factory will eat as much water as the city will. The second largest city in Hungary uses as much water with 200,000 inhabitants as this one miserable factory. I understand that you want to lie about the facts and figures, but if, let's say, it wasn't a mistake of magnitude in these estimates and expert studies, then maybe they could be taken seriously. Obviously, the technology is developing, and with greater investment, this factory could be less water-intensive, but for now, the fact is that you guys have shut down the study that told the truth, and that led the Debrecens to be misled. And the problem is, it's not just a truth-telling contest, it's the humiliation of citizens, the withdrawal of their right to a competent decision, and there's a law, which is based on the Aarhus Convention, which is unpleasant for you. It says that, before investments with a high environmental impact, the population should be included in the decision and that all the relevant information needed to establish their position must be shared with them in advance. So it's not some pious greenhead, it's not such a green-eyed eco-political fantasy, it's a legal requirement, the 2001 LXXXI. It was adopted at the time of the first Orbán government. So if a data that is very difficult to communicate to the public is one magnitude away from the actual real data, then they are obviously in violation of the law. But there are more serious problems, for example, when they talk about grey waste water, re-used, purified waste water, the environmental permit literally says that water supply is provided from a utility water network. Therefore, drinking water will be used in the factory, and the water provider will recognise it, I quote: according to the information available, additional water requirements can be met, but they will require capacity-enhancing investments. So the production of lithium batteries in Debrecen is a highly water-intensive activity, which requires water for the production of electrodes, the drying of electrodes with overheated steam, the cooling of machines, and not plain water, but ion-exchange water, which can be obtained from four times the amount of drinking water. There is not enough water in the area of Debrecen, the whole region is drying up, partly because of climate change and partly because of the misuse of water, as stated in the Debrecen climate strategy. Climate change will only get worse, and the waste of water will also seem to be getting worse, and the gigantic water demand of the southern industrial park is apparently being met at the expense of the inhabitants of the city. However, the phenomena so far are quite alarming, the Fanchika Lakes dried up in 1995, 2015 and 19 as well, the Lake Vekeri has been dying for years, the water has completely disappeared last summer, the average water flow of the Tócó stream has fallen dangerously, the oak trees of the Great Forest are drying. It is clear that this area does not cover additional water-intensive industrial facilities. The Civaqua project was taken out for a reason in the early 2000s, and I thank Lajos Kósa especially for the fact that through it we made it to the Squatting Slavs In Tracksuits site, where we could watch his wonderful squat in the Civaqua pipeline, but the problem is that they are not spending enough on it, it is not yet standing, and at the first stage it will not be a solution to the problems listed. [[22.50]] So while there is money to push the CATL plant and the infrastructure they use, apparently there is not enough money for the Civaqua project, they are waiting for the EU money, which we will not see very much because of their excessive public money theft. The fact is that in the next period we will not have more water, but less water, and not only in Debrecen, but also in Hungary in general. We are one of the most vulnerable countries in Europe through climate change. So if the temperature increases by 1 degree on average, it can mean 1.5-2 degrees in Hungary, and summers will be warmer by 3-4 degrees, and the precipitation distribution is increasingly uneven, and this little precipitation, which is very concentrated in summer, is expected to increase by 50 percent in periods without precipitation. So this is what Debrecen, the region, is facing, these are the facts that rule out the possibility of installing such a highly water-intensive activity in Debrecen. Not because electromobility or battery production in itself is from the devil, but because the environmental conditions in Debrecen are not specific. CHAPTER XXI In the first century, a sane government cannot plan an investment that is not in line with environmental conditions. Clean and sufficient water is now a matter of life and death. We need water to stay alive, not to make waste water in a battery factory, because the battery can be useful, but it has a serious deficiency. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You have one too!]] It can't be eaten. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the dialogue benches.]]
u2023-02-27-287	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Lóránt Keresztes, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2023-02-27-288	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary of State. Hungarian Secretary of State Levente has drawn our attention to the need for a sound debate here. I fully agree with this, despite the fact that, at the beginning of the debate, we came here with this intention, and it was clear that pro-government politicians were basically launching a party political attack on opposition politicians, and that they were referring to virtually Brussels politicians who were often rightly insulted, in fact quitting Brussels propaganda and trying to hide behind Brussels decisions when they were trying to fight Brussels for some unfair freedom. Well, in this debate, I would like to call on a man from your side who was not so long ago a minister, the Minister in charge of the field, the Minister of Environment and Energy, the Head of State Secretary, and, by the way, academic, so his expertise, I suppose, is certainly not called into question. László Palkovics said about the issue of battery production before he was appointed at the time of his hearing with the Minister's Candidates:, The battery production has significant risks from a sustainability point of view in my opinion. Unfortunately, greens, environmental NGOs or industry lobbyists who sell themselves green do not necessarily see this. This is how László Palkovics put it at the committee meeting. He also added, in addition to the positives about battery use, that from the other side, if you look at what is related to battery production, what energy needs, what raw material needs, what environmental loads, this is the other part of the thing, so you have to create some form of ballansz between the two. That's what László Palkovics argued. Well, the problem, in our view, is that you don't know the scale, so there's not even an effort to create some kind of ballax and invest in this industry in accordance with the country's load-bearing capacity, or to invite such foreign gigantic manufacturing companies. So it is clear that the strategic studies that will determine the price your plans actually require of Hungary, the Hungarian nation, have not been carried out, so to what extent you want to risk our natural resources. In this way, you are talking about greening, but the fact is, we know precisely that, since these batteries are produced for export almost without exception, we can say that the very amazing environmental burden and environmental impact of this is reflected here in Hungary. We Hungarians have to pay the price. On the other hand, these batteries will have a positive impact, so to speak, on Western European cities. So we can say that you intend to have the Hungarians pay the price of the rich West's green transition. In his speech before the agenda, the Prime Minister said an adjective, and I will use this adjective. What you are planning is not a national policy, an internationalist policy. Overall, you are talking about the fact that the use of batteries produced here can be a positive environmental balance, but you do not add that this positive impact will occur in Western Europe and all negative impacts at all levels in Hungary. This is against Hungarian national interests. What we see is that, in practice, as you implement this plan, you are ignoring the protection of our natural resources, selling our land, selling our water resources, and, by the way, even the net economic effects of this are extremely dangerous and harmful. Let's take another quote. Márton Nagy said that he thought it would take as little energy-intensive industry as possible for a country to increase its competitiveness. László Palkovics said that only one and a half current Paks nuclear power plants will be able to meet the energy demand of the ominous Debrecen plant. Mr Secretary of State said that new power plants should be built, a power grid with the Hungarian people's money so that these manufacturers can get rich and take the profits, and that the environmental burden should appear here. Well, that's not a policy for national interests either. Another quote from Minister István Nagy. He said: "I also admit that our very serious professional objective is to limit the growth of industrial areas to the benefit of agricultural land. We see that it is impossible to push the string further and that we want to act as seriously as possible in order to protect the soil. Well, in short, we can succinctly conclude that this struggle has failed by the Minister of Agriculture, you are delivering practically the best land. I would also like to quote the representative of the Battery Lobby, Péter Kaderjak, who, by the way, came to your boycotted meeting of the Committee on Sustainable Development and took part in this debate. He agreed in a statement, in an article, that, in addition to the green propaganda, the leak of dangerous substances, workers' poisoning, the sewerage of brutal amounts of drinking water into factories are currently accompanied by domestic conquest of the industry, and he believes that it would be up to the state to change that. Well, that's a task you don't intend to carry out. Péter Kaderjak, a representative of the Battery Lobby, even said that it would be very important to have an honest, clear dialogue on this issue. The solution, Mr Kaderjak, would see if the well-founded arguments of investors, stakeholders and the government side were openly presented to the public, together with potential environmental risks, and that there could be a partnership between the parties concerned. Compared to this, you did not come to the committee meeting, compared to this, you are encrypting the information for which, for example, the Gödi civilians had to sue, you do not answer the question of how much the existing and planned battery companies will have in total the need for water and energy, and your government office organised public hearings where they could specifically say so much about certain issues that they were not prepared with numbers and will reply in writing. So what we can say is that you do not represent national interests, but with an internationalist policy, the profit interests of these gigantic manufacturers, indeed, of foreign manufacturers, thereby endangering the natural resources of Hungarian people. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the LMP benches.]]
u2023-02-27-289	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Before the two-minute speeches come, I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the parliamentary group of the Democratic Coalition will allow four minutes of its timeframe for the May Other Parliamentary Group. [[Nacsa Lawrence: It can't be different.]] Dear Parliament, Now we have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Member László Pósán, Fidesz Group.
u2023-02-27-290	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, There have been quite a few strange statements here, and I would like to respond to them as Members of Debrecen in a few words. Mr Zoltán Varga and many others say that they use the best quality agricultural land. [[Zoltán Varga: I didn't say anything!]] I would just like to point out that the area where this particular battery plant will be built has been an industrialized area for 20 years, so it is not an agricultural area, and in terms of its gold crown value it is very low-quality land, it is really inland, if it is a very dry period, it is salty. So the person who claims that this is agricultural land is essentially showing one thing: he has no idea where this is in Debrecen and what he's talking about. [[Erik Bánki applauds.]] The other thing I would like to say is that in June 2022 it was not too long ago that the general assembly of the city of Debrecen unanimously took a decision that, in the southern industrial zone, where the CATL plant is also built, it would allow the construction of an infrastructure that would allow the maximum use of 24 thousand cubic meters of water per day, with at least ten other companies in this industrial area outside the CATL. [[23.00]] A simple mathematical operation can be used to calculate how and about how this is distributed. I would just like to note that this decision was also voted by the representatives of DK, and the left-wing representatives in the general assembly of the city voted in favour of it, so you should have known this, and obviously you did not deliberately say so. And what concerns Mr Komjathi Imre's suggestion, I think it is appropriate that we really need trust. The Member said that this would require strict compliance with environmental standards and so on and monitoring wells. I would like to note that the Authority has established such strict environmental frameworks, it has imposed strict conditions that are unique today from European battery production investments. So in this sense, I think that what Congressman Komjathi has asked for is guaranteed. I would respectfully ask you to take these into account. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-27-291	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Varga, DK Group. Here you go.
u2023-02-27-292	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Parliament, I need to respond to Congressman Pósan. Even though we know each other as Debrecen, I know that reality never really bothered him, but it's an exaggeration that he's been able to lie so much for two minutes. First of all, I didn't say a single word about the gold crown, the land, but while we're at it, I'd like you to talk to the farmers who are now looking for their scythes, which will probably chase the mayor through Market Street for how many golden crown land they're crying about right now. And about what the general assembly voted for last summer, I would like to say that you and the mayor of Debrecen have both been unlucky and unprofessionally lying about all the data of the factory, including the silence of the general assembly in Debrecen, of their own people, about what they are going to vote for. Because of this, we've taken disciplinary action against the mayor, and now the mayor's trying to explain with dense crocodile tears that discipline wouldn't be due to him. We're gonna go through with this because we want the mayor and all his mamelukes at the Debrecen General Assembly to look people in Debrecen in the eye and say, yes, I was the one who set this factory free for Debrecen. So I'd like to send a message to Mr. Mayor through you, but I see that your colleagues from the mayor's cabinet in Debrecen are here to prepare for the fact that in fact... I don't know whether there will be a referendum or not, but the real referendum will take place in less than a year, and it's called municipal elections. You're gonna fail hard, but you deserve it because you've been deceived, misled, destroyed by the Debrecen, and you're never gonna be able to wash it off with anything else. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2023-02-27-293	Thank you. I give the floor to Congressman David Dócs, the Group of our countries. Here you go.
u2023-02-27-294	Mr President, Dear House, Unlike other opposition parties, the question is not how, but why. History may have shown us that we have been a country of iron and steel with little success. Now it seems very much that you have imagined a future for Hungary where we can be a country of the big power of the battery plant instead of being a great power of the food industry. After all, we have never been famous for our industry, we do not have enough resources and opportunities for our industry, but for agricultural production and the start-up of the food industry and the building of the processing industry, we should take up agriculture. We do not understand why a technology called green investment has a high environmental impact, ecological footprint and environmental burden. We also do not understand why, if you are talking about a green economy, greenfield investments are preferred, unlike investments in brownfields, where, let's say, they could be built on plants built in the previous system and out-of-use, which could be destroyed by such battery factories or even other plants, but we would prefer processing plants. We do not really understand how we can endanger the stability of the Hungarian economy if we criticize the battery companies, because by means of the battery companies you are planning a colonial fate for us in the future. However, we believe that with this kind of attitude, you are endangering the establishment of an independent Hungarian national economy, which is unacceptable, because we simply do not have to be in a colonial line, we must not depend on foreign multinationals and large investors, but we must build our country's future on an independent national economy. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Dr. István Apáti applauds.]]
u2023-02-27-295	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Ms Rebecca Szabó for a two-minute speech. I thank you for your cooperation, and I hand over the chair of this meeting to my vice-president. (The chair was appointed by Dr. Lajos Oláh, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2023-02-27-296	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, A lot of strange things have been said here by my fellow Members, Fidesz, about the battery companies. On the one hand, I would like to tell Erik Bánki to look into what is an ecologically sustainable battery factory. So what do you think that means, what makes a battery factory ecological? By the way, do you know what organic means? [[Intercoms from the pro-government ranks.]] Now I'm not going to start saying definitions here, because there's no time for that in two minutes, but I don't think that's the case on the one hand, and on the other hand, it's very interesting how they say conflicting things. The fact that from the area where you want to build the Debrecen battery plant, you take the humus and put it somewhere else; now you think... [[Erik Bánki intervenes.]] [[Erik Bánki intervenes.]] Same place, under the concrete or the roof of the concrete or the factory or where? So you can't be in the same place... (Erik Bánki intervenes. ) Sorry, don't interrupt. So if there are 221 hectares of concreted battery factory, then they take the humus away, they take it somewhere, but the 221 hectares are lost to be land, because there is already a factory there. Besides, we've also heard that it's watery or salty. [[Interjection from the pro-government ranks.]] Both at the same time, I suppose, but they're still taking off the hummus, so this area you're talking about must be very interesting. [[Constant intervention from the pro-government ranks.]] Speaking of the permit to use the environment, we read that gas-fired boilers are being installed, 10 000-12 500 cubic meters per hour of gas, which will, I imagine, produce electricity, and we will also have 640 gigawatts of electricity. So they're talking about wow but sustainable and green, but they're gonna use a lot of natural gas, which I don't think is that sustainable. They talk about your authorities a lot, but I'll tell you that in the next two minutes.
u2023-02-27-297	Thank you. I salute my fellow Members, Madam Secretary of State and gentlemen. We will continue with the speakers announced in advance. I give the floor to János Bencsik of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-02-27-298	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, A few days ago, a study appeared on the economic news portals, but some of these daily public news portals also gave him space. Two researchers from the Faculty of Economics of the University of Miskolc examined how the economic and social sustainability of 25 cities with Hungarian county rights is related to the 17 sustainability objectives adopted by the UN. Three of these were examined in detail: the objective of decent work and economic growth, the industrial innovation infrastructure target system and, finally, the sustainable cities and communities target system. During their investigation, it was found that the 25 cities with Hungarian county rights can be divided into five clusters. In the first, Győr and Veszprém were replaced, and in the second, cities such as Sopron, Szombathely, Székesfehérvár and many others were surprised by the town of Tatabánya. Researchers pointed out that in 1990 Tatabánya was registered as one of the nasty twelve cities with county rights, and that this year the heavy industry collapsed, mining practically buried everything, and there was 25 percent unemployment. 25 percent unemployment means that one in four people of working age are unemployed, and this meant that practically every household in Tatabánya was affected by unemployment at some level or through parents or grandparents. [[23.10]] Researchers have also found that the development of intelligence, creativity and technical and intellectual infrastructure has brought about a change that has given Tatabánya the opportunity to develop a youthful age mix, which has given them the opportunity to participate in the development of a new economic structure with appropriate preparedness, knowledge and activity. Ladies and gentlemen, 32 years ago, I began the first year of my 20-year-old mayoral service in this city, and really, in order to get out of the unemployment livelihood crisis, important decisions had to be made. First of all, we will wait for the renaissance of coal in Europe and Hungary to come again, and we will somehow endure it, or the hunger is a great master, and the livelihood, the bread issue, really makes man and the community creative and innovative, we will take an alternative route and create common foundations for our daily livelihood. We have chosen this and built a new economic structure, not only for the cooperation of local and regional investors, but also for foreign investors, thanks to which ten thousand people are now working in the industrial park, and by activation and reindustrialization of the former brownfield areas we have achieved that more than 3,000 people work in such areas as drinking water, membrane technology, sanitation, water handling, pumping or medical technology. Few people know that Tatabánya is the country's health and medical technology manufacturing centre, where every fourth pre-filled syringe in the world is produced, or is making stomat sacks, or parts or main units that are important for MRI equipment, and in addition there are electronics in general and the automotive industry in general. Ladies and gentlemen, From this approach, we always look at the changing circumstances to which we need to adapt. We are not happy with all the changes and we can evaluate the green light differently, because, as has been said here, the ban on vehicles powered by internal combustion engines by the European Union around 2035 is not necessarily the best solution. For my part, I think that if a car could not go faster than 160, or if we were to produce cars with more than 2000 cubic centimeters, or at least no passenger cars, then it would not necessarily be necessary to move the road vehicle production towards electrification in general. While it should be stated that electric vehicles in cities, densely populated areas, in community transport, can significantly reduce the environmental burden and have a right to exist, I am not sure that such an electoration would be necessary in all areas in the short term. However, this decision has not been taken here, in this House, but with the support of Members in the European Parliament, including the European Parliament. This decision was made in a ratio of 340 to 300, with the support of representatives of the political forces who initiated the debate in the European Parliament, which we must take into account in the future when making local decisions. The fact is that the Hungarian economy, including the Tatabánya region and the Tatai Basin region, are also heavily integrated into the European automotive network, and the stake is that in Hungary it will produce cars, which represent 20 percent of the total domestic product and a significant part of industrial jobs, about 160 thousand jobs directly, and more than 300 thousand jobs with suppliers. If we want these jobs not to be lost, then we need to find compromises that can keep you alive, and these include the production of a battery. If there is no battery production in Hungary, here in the Central European region, then the automotive companies and their suppliers, which are also engaged in economic activity in our region, in the Tata Basin, and many thousands of people and families, provide a livelihood, they will become impossible, and the current favourable unemployment rate of around 1 per cent will rise to 5 per cent, up to 10 per cent or 15 per cent unemployment, which will not be an easy issue. So the stakes are that vehicles will be produced in Hungary and that jobs that are linked to this can be preserved. Allow me to respond to two speeches made earlier in the afternoon, saving a two-minute comment. I would like to thank Mr Csárdi here for correcting his fellow Member for correcting that the SK Innovation Battery Company in Komárom will not use karst water in the future, but will use water extracted from the wells on the Danube coast. However, he also mentioned that the city of Komárom is connected to the regional water network operated by the North-Transdanubian water company, where, by the way, my fellow Members, drinking water is supplied to over 364 thousand people in 71 settlements. In addition, Komárom's 20 thousand-year-old town of Komárom will also be able to provide them with healthy drinking water after the development of their industrial park, which is 5 percent of the total number of inhabitants and 3500 cubic metres of water produced daily, which will be provided by the regional waterworks with Komárom's connection. These are the issues that need to be considered in a social and economic sustainability framework, what it brings and what it brings is an investment, a change of technology. And we need to be very smart on the ground, and we need to keep coordinating with the local people, where the point we can tolerate in the field of resource management is, we cannot tolerate it in order to ensure everyday livelihoods. Because, let's say, in a 400-acre industrial park, half a tractor can be provided if we do agricultural work there, if we look at the processing of food, then, let's say, the livelihood of five families can still be ensured in this area. But what should communities where they used to live from industry, and not a few thousand inhabitants of the settlement, but many, many tens of thousands? They also need to make a living, because, by the way, I'm sorry, but family members, including children, need to be fed. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-27-299	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Balázs Barkóczi, from the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman. [[23.20]]
u2023-02-27-300	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Here during the debate, the social dialogue and lack of it have been repeated several times, and Mr Csárdi said that waste management is the weakest point in these projects, i.e. where and when the waste produced here will be placed, with an ugly Hungarian expression; I would like to give an example of this from my own constituency. In January 2023 the inhabitants of Rákospalota, Pestújhely and Újpalota found out that at the beginning of the year, the XV. in the immediate vicinity of the district, a storage facility for dangerous substances and a battery assembly plant. There are 4 000 tons of toxic substances that can be deposited in the hazardous material warehouse at the border of Rákospalota and Fot, and besides the warehouse, as I mentioned, the plans are also for a battery assembly plant, which the Pest County Disaster Protection Directorate nodded on 23 December, even last year, despite the fact that several live only a few hundred metres from the planned plant and there is a water base under the hall. Since the government has, as usual, failed to agree to want a toxic battery factory in their immediate vicinity, we had to find out from the press that two companies in the Fót industrial park would be active in battery production, one of them is a South Korean-based company that would rent a part of the building for the storage of 4 thousand tons of hazardous materials used for battery production and another company would set up a battery assembly plant. In the rented building, 3 thousand tonnes of cobalt-lithium manganese nickel oxide and a thousand tons of aluminium-lithium nickel-cobalt oxide are planned to be stored not far from the dwellings. It shows very well that even the mayor of Fót, Fideszes, announced that they would go to court about the disaster protection permit for the high-level hazardous substances plant. Annex XV is amended as follows: As a representative of the district and the Újpest Parliament, I asked the Minister for Economic Development of Márton Nagy myself with a written question, in which I wondered, among other things, why there was no social consultation between the Fót and the XV. with the participation of district citizens on the planned construction and the planning to ask them at all, and if so, when. I also wondered how an independent environmental study had been carried out, which would have assessed the long-term effects of the operation of the factory and the warehouse, and, if not, how the disaster management procedure was carried out, how a dangerous plant could have been licensed just a few kilometers from the Houses of Crab Palota. Not to mention that there are neither labour market nor economic reasons for the construction of battery factories in Hungary, since battery production is of low added value, but, as has been said here on several occasions, it is an extremely dangerous operation with enormous raw materials, water and energy requirements. My questions were, of course, answered by Secretary of State Tamás Menczer, who respected me with just one line of respect. He wrote, "The area you have designated is not built by a battery factory. Interestingly, Mr Secretary of State did not mention how the Pest County Disaster Management Directorate could then issue a permit for a battery assembly plant and a warehouse for hazardous materials not far from the border of Rákospalota. Thus, the answer can be considered no different than another example of government misrepresentation, lying and misrepresentation, where compliance with Chinese economic interests is still more important than that of the XV. representation and protection of the interests of Hungarian people in the district. However, if it were not so, if protecting the values of our natural environment were important to them and to you, then Rákospalota is also a good example. Last year's 40th anniversary was celebrated by the waste recycling plant in Crab Palota, which in 2022 achieved a record volume of district heat production of 1 million 113 thousand gigajoules, and this means that during the current energy crisis, only this one power plant saved Hungary from the use of 32 million cubic meters of natural gas, resulting in 62 thousand tons of CO2 emissions reductions while ensuring the annual district heating demand of 33 thousand average households in Budapest, and thanks to efficient cogeneration, it also covered the electricity demand of about 40,000 homes in an environmentally friendly and sustainable way. So we have something to be proud of in the 15th century. District and Newpesten. The people of Crab Palota, Pestújhely, New Palota and Újpest will continue to choose green and renewable energy instead of toxic battery factories. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the opposition benches.]]
u2023-02-27-301	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-02-27-302	Thank you for the opportunity. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We are here in Parliament's debate on a very serious subject, but I have to say about the opposition speeches and, in particular, the speech by Congressman Varga, that it has finally come out of the bag, so here in his second speech he has just mentioned that this is nothing more than a campaign issue for him. He brought this subject here merely because you want to take over the municipal elections. [[Zoltán Varga intervenes.]] It is not in the interest of the Debrecen, it is not in the interests of the Debrecen, it is not in the concerns of the Debrecen that are often understandable and inexplicable; it is in this framework that they have demeaned such an important topic, and it is necessary to interpret everything that you are going to say here tonight. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, I think that this subject deserves far more than you use it for political gain, and you are making it a campaign topic, and you are using the concerns, affairs, and questions of the Debrecen people to turn it into a campaign issue. [[It's an intervention from DK's ranks.]] The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, you have initiated this debate. Timea Szabó initiated this debate. Where is Szabó Timea or Tamás Mellar or Tamás Harangozó or Ágnes Vadai or Zsolt Gréczy or Ferenc Gyurcsány or Péter Ungár or András Fekete-Győr? [[Máté Kanász-Nagy: Peter is sick.]] They initiated this debate! Where are our fellow Members, who thought that for political reasons they would sign one of these, they would very much like to initiate such a debate on an important subject, but they no longer take the courage to take the subject seriously and do not take the Hungarian people, the people of Debrecen seriously to come here and argue on this subject? It was also surprising on this serious subject, which, I think, requires much more seriousness and professional skill, that you are throwing data here, but do not bother to look into these data. Congressman Csárdi has claimed that the rainfall in Thuringia is many times greater than that of the counties of Hajdú-Bihar. With a three-minute Google search, you can find out that it's basically exactly the same. So you base certain facts on hysteria, and Turingia's annual precipitation is exactly the same as that of Hajdú-Bihar County. Ladies and gentlemen, To take seriously anything they say about who can give the greatest number, to play such a competition on such a subject. The same is true, the Congresswoman has already said the percentage of those working in Iváncsa in a factory that has not yet been opened, my fellow Members. [[Rebecca Szabó: I didn't say Ivancha, but whatever.]] The fact is, this question could be taken much more seriously. We take this issue seriously here on the pro-government side, take seriously the understandable questions raised by the Debrecen people, and try to give them answers. We have such expectations, and here within the governing parties it is expected that an investment in Hungary can only be carried out if the strictest is more stringent than the German and the European Union, my fellow Members, has stricter permits than the German and the European Union, so that such an investment can be made. And the thing is, if you guys are throwing numbers like this, making this important issue a campaign theme, it's hard to argue, because we want to answer the questions that come up here, we want to reach them, and I think we can see that the authorities are strict about all these issues and investments, because here, in Hungary, such an investment can only be built, so that such a factory can be built if it meets the strictest conditions. That is why I do not understand why you do not try to stay on the ground of facts when you talk about such a subject. I think it is important that we talk about the facts, and we also talk about the fact that you have this two-faced attitude, and that you are changing your arguments at moments because of the political benefit, changing your views, I think that makes you a little bit ridiculous on this subject. When there is concern, there are the understandable, emerging issues, you are there, for example, the LMP, which in its 2019 EP campaign said that Hungary should not be left out of the world's electric car revolution. That's what your list leader said, honourable Member. [[23.30]] He also said that it is important to spend money on turning the automotive industry in Hungary into an electric car production. That was your position two and a half years ago, honourable Member. That was their position. Róbert Benedek Sallai, your Member of Parliament, has also submitted a proposal for a resolution to the Parliament for 2030, which is much earlier than the EU's 2035 deadline for electric and hybrid cars on the Hungarian roads. It was submitted by your group. László Lóránt Keresztes was the leader of the faction. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, you are conducting such campaigns. It's hard to argue that one day they say that, the next day they say that. In fact, this is where it comes out of the bag that you are using an important and otherwise influential topic for political gain in Hungary's future. Because the question here tonight, ladies and gentlemen, is whether we can win the future for Hungary or not. The question is whether we can switch to future technologies or not. The question is that we can guarantee all the conditions that give Hungary the winner of the green transition, and the Hungarian people, the winners of Hungarian businesses, will be the winners of the green transition, or not. As we move forward in this debate, it is becoming clear that you are not interested in this. You are not interested in winning the technologies and debates of the future, so that we can win the future for Hungary, so that Hungarian families, businesses and Hungarian workers can be the winners of the green transition. You have one goal here tonight: to create hysteria on this issue with the louder, the harder it gets. However, there are clear facts here, ladies and gentlemen: strict environmental permits, strict economic development support for important investments must be opposed to building such an investment in Hungary. And we want to win the future. All the guidelines and steps taken by the European Union and the European Commission are in the direction that most electric cars are produced in the West and most batteries are produced in the East. We would like these two worlds to meet in Hungary and Hungary to be the winner of the green transition. I regret that you have created a completely irresponsible debate on this subject with such words and data. Most of the initiators did not come to this debate, which I regret in particular, because we would have had something to say to them, and we would have answered their questions. And the fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that, in the course of this debate, no one will be told that we should not have a very strict environmental permit here. Yes, you can. Then let's make it happen. At that time, however, it should be possible for Hungarians, Hungarian businesses, to benefit from this because it is in line with the objectives of the European Commission, in line with the goals of the green future. But if you do not want to be a part of this, then we can see again what we have seen many times so far, that you are acting against the interests of Hungary. We are not doing this, we are trying to pursue our policy in the interests of Hungary, we are answering the questions that arise, we expect the authorities to insist on investments, and that is why we are here in the debate, unlike many of you. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-27-303	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mrs Zita Gurmai, Member of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2023-02-27-304	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, Dear House, In 1949, the then state party set the most important economic policy objective in the first five-year plan: to become a country of iron and steel. We didn't. In return, we have experienced that it is completely wrong to focus on an industrial area from an economic policy perspective, and that it did not have the domestic conditions. The forced but inefficient economic effort and the creation of its conditions cost enormous sums. These poorly spent budget funds have distracted funds from other economic developments and have diverted funds from social care, health care and education. The socialist economy has fallen into it. But Hungary learned from its mistakes. Oh, no. Because in November 2021, the current state, pardon, government party declared that we would become a big power in the battery company. In recent years, the Orbán government has supported the construction of some twenty smaller or larger Hungarian battery factories, with a budget of approximately HUF 300-350 billion. Now, with the construction of the big factory in Debrecen and the expansion of existing factories, such as the Tatabánya and the Komárom factory, the government is definitely pushing for the country's potential. There is little land for factories of this size in Hungary, there is no domestic source of raw materials, there is not enough water, there is not enough electricity, there is no suitable network of roads, there is not enough Hungarian labour, and the country is unable to bear the enormous environmental burden. Battery manufacturing is an industry for which Hungary's capabilities are simply not suitable in this order, while the cost of creating conditions and seducing foreign companies for hundreds or thousands of billions of dollars is drawing money from other economic developments and social services, health care or education. The only reason for the battery companies is that the Orbán government wants them, that's all. The Government of Hungary goes against its own principles. The government, which allegedly proclaims innovative development, presents the smooth assembly plants as modern technology, where there is no Hungarian innovation, Hungarian engineers, Hungarian technology and Hungarian development have no role at all. Trained workers work in factories with low added value, serving foreign technology. The government, which is supposed to protect Hungarian soil, easily transfers valuable territories to foreign companies. It often provides suitable agricultural land for environmental investment. The government of the country that is supposed to be on its own will support an industry whose raw materials are to be obtained from foreign imports. The supposedly saving government spends hundreds of billion forints of budget to create the extra infrastructure needed for battery companies, the electricity grid, the plumbing and the sewerage network. The government, supposedly committed to environmental protection, supports an industry, a production technology that has no domestic water base for its brutal water consumption. In the Tata Basin, for example, the drinking water supply of more than 300 thousand inhabitants of 74 settlements and the water needs of agricultural production have disappeared, and the expansion of the battery factory in Tata and Komárom has not yet been completed. The government of supposedly Hungarian people grants hundreds of billion-dollar state aid to foreign companies that regularly fail to comply with technological safety standards, disaster protection standards and often violate Hungarian labour rules. The government that is supposed to be fighting foreign energy dependence allows us to build factories with a total need for electricity that we have to import foreign electricity. The allegedly consulting government does not want people's opinions on battery factories, considers it necessary to launch a national consultation or hold a referendum. Is it because the Debrecen, which is a fidesz citadel, would show that people can stand on their heels on a question like this and give an opinion against Fidesz? The government, calling itself anti-immigration, is lying to domestic job creations where immigrants work in bulk. In the Göd factory the proportion of foreigners is about 40-50 percent, and the workers at the Komárom factory report that they can hardly hear a Hungarian word. And I could tell you the facts that are completely contrary to what the Orbán government is saying about you. They lie about the slogans that Fidesz has said in the campaign to the point of boredom, and they face up to statements that sound like government propaganda. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, The government is trying to hide the above-mentioned facts, for example, by removing independent research on water consumption or by twisting the sentences of the Vice-President of the European Commission in the order of government media. This cannot be blamed on the European Union. In fact, in an interview with a German newspaper, the European Commissioner for Climate Control said, for example, that the EU automotive industry, EU companies, should start mass battery production for themselves. Thus, the German, Spanish, French or Hungarian-made electric car can be cheaper for Europeans. [[23.40]] This allows the industry's dependence on Asia to decrease, so that the EU car industry can generate profits and thus generate tax revenue, leaving the work of hundreds of thousands of EU workers, including Hungarian workers, currently working in the automotive industry. So he did not say that the Hungarian state, with hundreds of billions of dollars in support, would bring Asian companies to Hungary, which generate profits for Asia, and in which mostly Asian workers work. It is well known that European fashion companies in Asia, for example, in Bangladesh, produce mass of branded clothing in polluting factories and with workers who cannot buy, for example, jeans from their several months' wages, of which hundreds are produced one day. Now we will be the Asian battery production Bangladesh, because with the current method of the Orbán government, Hungary will not become a large power of the Battery Factory, China and South Korea will become a great power of battery power, whose companies will make their own profits here. We'll be the site of Asian corporations, Asian capital. We suffer from all the negatives of battery production, the production of batteries that are placed in cars that the average Hungarian will not be able to buy. We're becoming bitches of China and South Korea, and the Orbán government is assisting us with pride in making us bitches. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the lines of DK and LMP.]]
u2023-02-27-305	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Louis Kósa of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-02-27-306	Mr. President. Dear House, I am listening very carefully to the debate and to what has been said in the debate. Let me just say that it is almost possible to see that there are a lot of numbers, but somehow opposition representatives are not able to find out what those numbers refer to. [[Zoltán Varga: You do it!]] Obviously, this leads back to a text understanding problem. [[Zoltán Varga: Could be!]] Or they know what they're talking about, they're just being cynical about these facts. [[Dr. István Apáti intervenes.]] I would rather start from the former, so allow us to say a few verifiable, factual things about battery production. Let me draw attention to the fact that many bombastic adjectives say: it is extremely water-intensive, so it is not numbers, it is extremely water-intensive, it is extremely dangerous, it is terrifying, it is an environmental burden, and the rest, and so on, are all such bombastic adjectives, but the opposition colleagues are afraid to make it verifyable in some way. Let's look at the data and facts of battery production as an economic sector. For example, battery production is not included in the first ten most water-intensive sectors in terms of water demand. [[Zoltán Varga: For example, bed linen washing is more water-intensive!]] In this sense, if Members were right, one of the most water-intensive sectors should be closed immediately in Hungary [[Zoltán Varga: Fishing!]] beer, beer, beer, beer, beer, beer, beer, beer, beer, beer, beer, beer, beer, beer, beer, beer, beer, beer, beer, beer, beer, beer, beer, beer, beer, beer, beer, beer, beer, beer, beer, beer, beer, beer, [[Zoltán Varga: You'd be in trouble! Rebecca Szabó intervenes.]] But I could tell you further: canning, paper and fertilizer production are all deadly, because otherwise, look on the Internet, on Wikipedia, and elsewhere, there is no battery production in the top ten of the most water-intensive sectors. It's energy-intensive here, too, bombastic adjectives. If you look at the energy consumption statement between economic sectors, there is absolutely no battery production in the first five most energy-intensive sectors. [[Zoltán Varga: Wow, that's soothing.]] So it's simply this much more than that... Again, in a strange way, paper or fertilizer production, the chemical industry is more energy-intensive than battery production. With regard to recyclability, imagine that modern battery production produces 97% recyclable products, 97%! I wish we could say that the larger part of industry is that it produces 97% recyclable products! So if it's a recycling industry, then it's certainly true for battery production. But these are just general figures, but it is more appropriate that we always look at what it is about, because my fellow Member from Turda, for example, has done the bravure by telling us how much water is needed in the Debrecen battery plant, but it is bigger in the Samsungé Göd, so... and then he reached the conclusion here. But I don't have to tell you that Debrecen is in Debrecen and Samsung is in Göd, so the two aren't comparable. [[Zoltán Varga: Rebecca Szabó intervenes.]] By the way, it's a car, a car, but one car consumes five liters per 100 kilometers, and the other one consumes 20, and that doesn't mean anything. [[Zoltán Varga: That's right, the pit consumes more!]] Let's see, they said a lot: land, we take the valuable land for the Debrecen battery factory. My fellow Member Pósán excellently said that 20 years ago, the city designated the southern industrial area south of the airport precisely because it is the weakest growing area in the city. Typically, it was a plower before the extraction... or it was not a plougher, but a pasture [[Zoltán Varga: Are you a plougher or a pasture now?!]] Otherwise, it is basically waterproof, the average golden crown content is below 15 percent, which is particularly small in Debrecen, if you look at where 40 golden crown areas of the Hajdúhárság are located, and by the way, after the lower flow of the Tóco and Kondoros, the area was permanently in danger of internal water, which makes it prone to scalding. So if something can be used in Debrecen for industrial purposes, that's for sure. [[Zoltán Varga intervenes.]] It has nothing to do with valuable productive areas, because they are not here, but that's why the city has chosen them elsewhere. Consultation. At the time when the city had completed its structural plan and its regulatory plan, I would note that in the early 2000s, it had, by the way, designated the southern industrial park with parameters for industrial development, and otherwise held consultations on it, so what types of parameters could be installed, what kind of activity could be used, held a public hearing, and posted the regulatory plan. So it's true that it was 20 years ago, but the development of industrial parks is usually a long-range thing. [[Zoltán Varga: Of course!]] It is therefore necessary to adapt the city's water system, energy supply, transport, thus long-term processes, but it was clear to everyone after the consultation that this was earmarked for industrial development in the long term. Here, however, Mikepércs made the mistake that despite knowing that it was an industrial development area in Debrecen, Mikepercs had developed residential areas in this direction. I note that in 2008, after the irregular adoption of their regulatory plan, they were punished by the Government Office and ordered a new procedure, where it pointed out that Mikeperch residential areas should not be installed towards the industrial park. I would add, however, that distance is still a sufficient reference to Mikepércs. [[Zoltán Varga: Yeah, two kilometers!]] Therefore, the fact that it does not endanger residential areas is not a threat to the designation of industrial areas. But for the record, in the present procedure there is also a public hearing required in various procedural stages, there was also a public hearing in Debrecen, but it is not easy, it is not easy to hear the public hearing when the lady who, after shouting for three hours at a time, was not allowed to speak, a lady stood up and told us not to be angry, but at least listen to each other, this lady was immediately struck. For the record, the cop took the guy who hit him, he's being prosecuted for assault, easy assault, but let's face it, the consultation isn't that easy. The need for water. Let me tell you something right here from the beginning. I know it's complicated, and water, water, but there's a huge difference between the waters. This is how Debrecen can be divided from this point of view in terms of precipitation water, surface water, groundwater, layer water, thermal water. [[Zoltán Varga: That's how he knows the waters!]] And I would add it's very important that it's water, water, but it's not as direct a connection as it's supposed to be from the rains in Thuringia. I'm just saying, quietly, one of the driest areas in the world is the Sahara, isn't it? As incredible as it is, the layer water under the Sahara is one of the richest layer water bases in the world. And to make things even more complicated, the elephant doesn't have a long trunk to reach down into a layer of water, and he's about to satisfy his need for water. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] So let me just say it's complicated, complicated. (Development in the ranks of the governing parties. ) So... [[Zoltán Varga: Tell me more, Louis.]] I'm glad if Mr. Varga's got a little something on him; I'm not sure, but maybe. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zoltán Varga: Listen, elephant trunk and layer water, I think it's cool! The president's ringing the bell.]] [[23.50]] The things they said about the water, the drying up of the trees. [[Zoltán Varga: They don't dry...]] In Debrecen, the forest of Szentgyörgy, the forest of Apafai, the Great Forest, three different forest bodies [[Zoltán Varga: I told you...]] And the Forest Spiders [[Zoltán Varga: Sure!]] their trees basically get their water supply from the groundwater. [[Zoltán Varga: From where? A truck?]] The groundwater has been declining ever since the river control of the Tisza in the Great Plain, so the peak drying of the trees did not start now, but a hundred years ago has nothing to do with any battery production, and it will not change until the missing soil water is somehow replaced, in no way from the layer water, in no way from the thermal water, but by other means anyway. [[Zoltán Varga from Civaqua...]] I'll talk about that, because there's a program in Debrecen. So, no doubt, the trees are drying, but it has nothing to do with the CATL. The following is: the lakes in the forests in the vicinity of Debrecen, these are all surface water lakes, if you like, inland lakes. These are directly related to drought, which is related to weather, has nothing to do with CATL. [[Zoltán Varga intervenes.]] These were dried up long before the heat and rain flow decreased, as the battery production would otherwise have been produced in Debrecen. That's something to do with it, I might add, but the CATL has nothing to do with it. Debrecen's drinking water base, however, does not rely on groundwater, not on surface water and not on precipitation water, but on layers of water under Debrecen, which, as we know, is enormously rich in the Carpathian Basin, which is our natural property. Imagine, Debrecen's daily water supply, as layers of water are replaced, more than 110,000 cubic meters per day, than a small river. It has nothing to do with surface waters, these waters flowing from the Carpathian Basin for thousands of years and even now in the layers below Debrecen. [[Zoltán Varga: From the Carpathian Basin? The pool or the Carpathians?]] This is a special hydrological process or process of the Carpathian pool. [[Zoltán Varga: The pool is different, Mr. President...]] It's not easy to understand. [[Zoltán Varga: You're involved in this...]] But it's okay, because you're patient in case you stick to something. [[Zoltán Varga: From the Carpathian Basin...]] So once again, this has nothing to do with the rain above us, not with the groundwater, not with the inland waters. [[Zoltán Varga: We sit in the pool...]] If you look at how much CATL needs water and the city's full capacity, you get the following numbers. Today, the city of Debrecen can use 75,000 cubic meters per day for its own drinking water supply, this is the momentary operating capacity. [[Zoltán Varga: The mayor said a hundred...]] In addition, the city of Debrecen has the surface water extraction in Balmazújváros, and it can still use 15 thousand cubic metres, otherwise at operational level. [[Zoltán Varga intervenes.]] So if we wanted to, we could take 90,000 cubic meters a day with nothing to do with it, just turn on the pumps. We're not taking that out. In addition, there is another technological reserve: basically, we do not operate our layer water wells under the Great Forest, which means roughly 25-30 thousand cubic meters per day, but we do not operate them, we do not remove any layer water from them. [[Zoltán Varga: Louis, not because it's contaminated... the president is ringing the bell.]] And we also have 15 thousand cubic meters of reserves in surface water. So all the reserves are 110,000, and we can use 75-90 thousand cubic meters without any problem, and now pay attention: but the city's daily water demand is 40,000 cubic meters per day, this is the annual average. Now, how much does CATL need water? 3,600 cubic meters. So, you see, there are 110-120 thousand cubic meters, and from here to here I say boundaries, it doesn't matter, because otherwise it's a variable technical parameter, it's calculated on an average of a long time, but compared to that, the water demand of the CATL, I can safely say, is negligible. We couldn't get that out of surface water, but we can get it out of the layer water. Luckily, there's a real river under the city. Now, the CATL would use this water in an area in the southern industrial park that we can easily release. In the eighties, when the socialist food industry and socialist industries were still raging, so they are like tobacco factory, canned factory, leather industry, paper industry, slaughterhouses, and without any problems, the consumption of the city was 90 thousand cubic meters/day, 90 thousand cubic meters/day, and we were able to release it now only 40, and without terrible things to do with our water supply. But the CATL works in an area, this is the southern industrial park and the surrounding part of the city, where water expenditure is, by the way, 24,000 cubic meters for the city's long-term water operation. Only 3600 of this will be used by CATL, so I can safely say that this is actually a problem-free investment in terms of water. [[Zoltán Varga: We felt this...]] There is no problem in terms of water management in Debrecen. And I'll be careful, it's a poetic exaggeration that the Debrecen die of thirst, the Great Plain dries up, and I don't know what nonsense they've been saying. [[Zoltán Varga: Sure! A lot of idiots...]] This has nothing to do with reality. It has nothing to do with reality. And the ones that have been read here, for example, in terms of climate strategy or long-term water management, are, by the way, nothing to do with CATL or the city's water supply, because, by the way, the desiccation of the Great Forest, and then not only the desiccation of the forests around the Great Forest, but also the forests around Debrecen, because it is true that Debrecen is, with 34 percent forest fry, the country's most forested city, but it has to be replaced from surface water and groundwater, which is why the Civaqua program is being carried out to solve the water supply of Tócó. The first phase is 14 billion HUF; when the first phase is completed, then the second phase follows. So it's a false conclusion, Mr. Varga, that if we don't work on the second phase, and then you say that we're not doing it anymore, because the first phase is going on, we have the source. [[Zoltán Varga: Did I say that?]] And if we finish it [[Zoltán Varga: The second one begins... that's how it's usually... that's how it is!]] then there's the second stage. You know, it's like putting the parts on TV one by one; if you pour them in, they won't be fixed. [[Zoltán Varga: It's tall as a pig's hat!]] It's complicated, but it's okay because it can be put together. So if the first phase of the Civaqua is resolved, which means pumping water up from the main channel of the East through a wire into the ground to the highest point of gravity water distribution of the Hajdúhárságy, from there we inject 300 litres/second into the Tóco, making it a living stream. [[Zoltán Varga: How much?]] Otherwise, we will use the remaining water for agricultural watering, because otherwise we can supply the northern part of Hajdúháták from this point of view of watering or watering water, and we will continue this program when we lead the water to the forests and introduce it into the lake system of Lake Kati, Fancsika, Mézeshegy, Lake Vekeri, because this is how we can replace the water. To add, this has nothing to do with the CATL. So the things they said at the hearing that they were doing Civaqua because the CATL needs water, that's bullshit. [[Zoltán Varga: Ah!]] The audition. Not here, but a lot of people have commented on this debate. [[Zoltán Varga: Sure!]] And some of them were thinking that we had evil knowledge of CATL, and that's why we started preparing Civaqua in the early 2000s. [[Zoltán Varga: And the voices in your head...]] So you have to think in a very context, or you have to be overly considerate to make that up, but they also said that. [[Zoltán Varga: We see him!]] Next thing you know, why is this good for Debrecen? Because many of my fellow Members have told me why this is good for the country, because otherwise... [[Zoltán Varga: Viktor Orbán will smile at us...]] By the way, I would like to add that you should see where the city's industrial development and urban development policy has led for 25 years. [[Zoltán Varga: I'm happy to hear it!]] But there is no doubt that this can be criticised, or there is someone else who likes that two years ago, the Financial Times named the city of Debrecen among small-scale cities as the world's best investment area. [[0.00]] This required a great deal of action, from the VET system to the development of the university to the development of transport systems, to the development of infrastructure, but it is safe to say that the CATL has noticed the potential development opportunities in Debrecen, which confirms our work. [[Zoltán Varga: This will be Mikepércsen's...]] I would add that we told both in Debrecen and the Chinese that no one could build a factory that would endanger the environment or the people. [[Zoltán Varga: It's about time! Let's do it now.]] They've never built anything like this before, and they won't. By the way, is there a plant more dangerous than CATL in Debrecen, which emits, for example, more harmful substances than the CATL will or produces more hazardous waste than the CATL will? Yeah. Compared to the others, this is a medium-risk industry in the Debrecen industry. But every industry is risky. Imagine, even corn processing in the cannery in Debrecen can be a deadly blow to the water supply system, because a lot of starch from the corn is soluble into the water, and if we don't clean it, and we don't pay attention to it, the starch appears in the sewage plant, it kills the biology there, and from there we can't tell you that we're cleaning every liter of sewage, but we can only tell you that we're not cleaning a liter because there's a biological purification going on in the watershed. So in that sense, these are complicated things, because who would think corn could be dangerous? But by the way, among the plants that work with dangerous substances, pharmaceutical companies or the chemical industry are far more dangerous. Well, in a pharmaceutical company, autoclaves use a huge amount of chemicals and biological substances that need a lot of attention. You have to be very careful. But imagine that one of the most dangerous plants is the clinic in Debrecen itself, because all the waste and water coming out of the clinic is dangerous waste, because they deal with sick people, they cure them there, and the waste coming out of the clinic must be monitored very, very seriously. But I can tell you that the animal protein processing plant in Debrecen is going to be a hell of a lot more dangerous than the CATL. [[Zoltán Varga: Yes.]] Nevertheless, the solution is not to close everything and return to the clicked Stone Age. In addition, it's dangerous, too, because the splinter bounces and goes into our eyes, and then we go blind. [[Zoltán Varga: Really! Well, really. Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] So in this sense, I would think that a more appropriate attitude and attitude is [[Zoltán Varga: And another 35 minutes!]] If we listen rather than say that what is dangerous is out of the city, we say that we should look at our data: in Debrecen, the industry operates completely correctly and without problems, even if there are dangerous sectors among them. I don't think Debrecen pharmaceuticals can be shut down because it's more dangerous than battery production, by the way. Overall, honourable House, I did not expect much from this debate. [[Zoltán Varga: Well, we're more than that!]] because I have seen Members' indiscretion, so benevolent, completely unprecedented in this context. [[Zoltán Varga: Well, we are such a benevolent team!]] The fact that someone says in half a sentence that they're gonna put 100 acres of concrete on the CATL, that's so stupid, I'm sorry. [[Zoltán Varga: That's what the Secretary of State said, 220 hectares!]] Of course, every industrial land has its capacity and a green area indicator, the CATL-telek. So 40 percent of the total CATL content must be green, as is normally required by the construction rules. [[Zoltán Varga: Louis, it's been modified, unfortunately not so much! Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] Overall, I would like to draw attention to one more interesting point, honourable Members. Imagine that in Debrecen two battery plants are already under way. One is Semcorp, one is a Chinese factory, and the other is EcoPro South Korean factory, partly producing parts for batteries, and in some cases research and development is also taking place in these factories. They're not small. [[Zoltán Varga: Lajos, you're making the mood!]] At the Semcorp public hearing, they won't guess, there were three of them! No one at the EcoPro South Korean factory hearing, but no one. These are two decent battery factories. Then how come it's the CATL, by the way, where the bomb went off like that? [[Zoltán Varga: Tell me the truth!]] It simply needs to be watched and put together: your honoured owners, who finance the opposition, told the Chinese that children, Chinese, cannot come to Hungary on such a scale, and, after knowing that the floppy who pays the money, the opposition will completely cancel the assignment that their American financiers have said to them. And to avoid misinterpreting the situation, look at what decree the US President signed not so long ago just to understand the relationship systems. [[Zoltán Varga: What? I don't understand.]] In the U.S. automotive industry, every car produced is strongly supported by the US budget if there is not a single Chinese component in that car; nothing. So it is clear that what President Biden has announced is that an american, rather comprehensive trade campaign against China has been launched, and here we are paying for it, because we have a great opposition that the Americans directly finance. What's happening now is they're going to cancel the assignment and lesson they've given their clients. Okay, we're used to this, it's not the first time they've made enough money, so they're actually making a good living, the only thing that's comforting is that they're either doing it completely wrong or stealing most of it, and then we can rest assured of the benefits of this assignment. The Debrecen thank you, they're fine. There are quite a lot of protesters imported from other parts of the country, but that's okay, we'll listen to everyone, we'll try to calm everyone down. One thing is certain: we are not building anything dangerous, especially that would damage the health of people in Debrecen or the environment. One thing there's no doubt: we'd like to develop further. The fact that the opposition in Debrecen, as it has always opposed the development in Debrecen in 25 years, could not do that; BMW factory, remember, you refused to come to the vote of the BMW plant. [[Zoltán Varga: We supported you, Louis!]] They supported him by not coming to the vote, yes. [[Defiance.]] Main Square transformation, swimming pool, stadium, Big Forest reconstruction, never supported anything, okay, and we're used to it. We know you serve others, good luck with that, we want to fight for the Debrecen. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zoltán Varga: That's it? We've got 30 minutes left!]]
u2023-02-27-307	Thank you, Congressman. I think we can express our eternal gratitude on behalf of my fellow Members that we have learned that the elephant's trunk is not for sucking out layer water. Thank you very much. I give the floor to János Bencze of the Jobbik Group.
u2023-02-27-308	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for the floor. I'm a fresh Member of Parliament, but if someone tells me there's gonna be a meeting where we can beat Monty Python, I don't believe it, but I believe it now. [[Defiance.]] So, dear House, let's get serious. I'm really glad I heard a lot of interesting things, reminding me a little of pine and light. There is one important thing that has been said here, and I very much like this whole debate. I am pleased that there are debates here, and I would like to take part in a debate on the Hungarian food processing industry, and also on the southern zone of Hungary, which, for some reason, stays out of everything for us, they say that the Hungarian industrial development has not come down to Dunaújváros since 90, and then I would like to hear a debate about this as well. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Not now!]] I would like the Members to compete on all sides on where we place processing plants, so let the cities fight. But we're not in this position right now. I've been listening to a lot of things here, everyone's missing specific data. [[0.10]] I confess with honor, I may have made a mistake, read the document of the Hungarian Government and the Ministry of Innovation and Technology entitled National Accumulator Industry Strategy, and I started from this. I understand those who are afraid of following the example of the 1950s that we are building an industry without raw materials. This fear is absolutely justified, Hungary has already burned itself once, we have not become a country of iron and steel, but we have become a country of socialist disaster after a while. There's an interesting point here that gave me hope, and I just wanted to get some data, nothing more. They indicate that Hungary should strive to exploit its own lithium raw material base. They also mark a goal, this is the Hungarian thermal water treasure. I took myself as a naive fresh Member and addressed a question to Minister Csaba Lantos. One thing I wanted to know, a figure, is how many liters of lithium we want to extract from thermal water, a very simple question. And imagine the answer I've received to the fact that there are currently several procedures, so they can't answer it. I have a bad feeling we're gonna build an industry on nothing, but let's be positive. In that material there is one that, compared to surface mining, geothermal extraction requires 50 times less water; so we just won a number. We've been trying to do this: it takes roughly two million liters of water to produce a ton of lithium from surface mining. We've been handing this out to you for a hundred and fifty, and the thermal water has come up with some pretty weird data. In Hungary there is something so wonderful that we will extract one kilogram of lithium from 360 litres of thermal water. According to experts, whom I have asked, it is such an innovation that we will be the world leader with it. So all we have to do is extract lithium from such relatively little water, and push China down, or not, or something's been miscalculated. I tried to find geologists, we also looked up several professionals who do thermal water, I looked up spas, and I tried to find out how much lithium is actually found in a liter of thermal water in Hungary. And I've got odd figures: Hajduszoboszló speaking of Debrecen 0.2 milligrams per litre. My point is, 50,000 cubic meters of water comes out of enough lithium to do something about it. So it comes out of 50,000 cubic meters, 38 tons. Nyírbátor has 0.08 milligrams of lithium in a liter of water. That's not enough. I will ask Mr Lantos again how many liters of water we want to extract one kilogram of lithium. This would be a very important figure, because I do not want to waste Hungarian thermal water resources on lithium mining for Chinese plants. So this whole thing is driven by genuine concern. And it would be nice to know these data. If we were to receive this data, I think there could be a much more meaningful debate here, both on the opposition side and on the pro-government side. So I ask again, before the great plenum, who will give me the answer, how and how much lithium we wish to extract from the Hungarian thermal water treasure. Thank you. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-02-27-309	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to István Hollik of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-02-27-310	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Let's start with the most important: in Hungary, environmental and safety rules are strict. Mostly EU rules are EU rules, but there are Hungarian environmental rules that are stricter than the EU. [[Dr. István Apáti:...Gödön.]] So whatever investment is made in Hungary, these rules must be respected. You can see that this doesn't impress you very much. [[Zoltán Varga: No.]] And that's why they're not talking about reality. As I also see, they pretend there is a debate in the world and in Europe about what the future industry will look like, and as if there is still a debate about whether electromobility will be involved in the future industry or not. But, ladies and gentlemen, this debate, if any, is over, I do not know if you have noticed. And, yes, it certainly looks like there has been a carbon neutrality consensus in the world, but in Europe. We said that Europe should be carbon neutral. And turning mobility into electromobility will be one of the most important pillars. So this debate is over. The next bad news for you is that electromobility and battery production cannot be split into two. If we want electromobility, electric cars, we also have to want battery production, given that the batteries account for 30-40 percent of the value of electric vehicles. So we can establish that if we want electromobility, we also have to want battery production. This debate has therefore been decided in Europe, as many have already referred to it here. The European Parliament has accepted that, from 2035 onwards, new-made passenger cars and vans with internal combustion engines can no longer be sold in the Union. And who voted for this EU rule? Márton Gyöngyösi, Jobbik; Katalin Cseh, Momentum; Attila Ara-Kovács, DK; Klára Dobrev, DK; Sándor Rónai, DK; István Ujhelyi, MSZP. [[Zoltán Varga: But was it written that he would be built in Debrecen?]] Honourable Congressman, I'll tell you one more time. When you say yes to electromobility, you say yes to battery production. Just like Frans Timmermans did. Frans Timmermans, your European ally, has clearly said that we need to produce mass batteries in Europe. He also claimed that first of all, European workers, who are now unemployed, should be retrained, as Mr Timmermans says, people over the age of 50 and 55, because today, contrary to the period of closure of former coal mines, there is an opportunity to keep these people in the industry. And my fellow Members have set countless examples of how green politicians from Germany to Sweden welcome battery production as the very important stages of the road to carbon neutrality. I also add one more colour to this cavalcade: Federal Minister for the Environment Steffi Lemke says that batteries are the central element of a successful energy transition, without which they cannot be imagined, they store energy in the home of electric cars, electrical appliances or solar panels. So this debate is over, and it is quite clear that Europe is moving in this direction. But it also shows that we also need to be honest about the fact that there is a big competition here. And yes, the European Union joined this competition relatively late, because we can see that the vast majority of the world's battery production is in China. However, Hungary's market position is very favourable. In addition, there are a lot of developments in Hungary that benefit such investments: there are a significant number of car manufacturers, the ZalaZONE test track and a number of research and development companies that create a favourable environment for battery production. The fact that the car brands here can get the battery directly is also very environmentally friendly, because if I understand you correctly, you want electromobility, but you don't want battery production. Now, the thing is, bringing the battery here from China or India, the component from tanker ships, and installing it into the electric BMWs manufactured in Debrecen, is more polluting or being transported from one place to another in the Debrecen industrial area. [[Zoltán Varga: You're not serious, are you?]] Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, the Hungarian legislation, as I have already said, must be emphasised once again, is stricter than the German one. Therefore, the Debrecen battery plant can only be built to fully comply with all such standards. We also talked about it, but it is important to say once again that 70 percent of the battery plant uses so-called grey water. So this is the water already used by the Debrecen. [[0.20]] The thing is, I told you all this because the competition I was talking about is still going on today, it's sharp. Many of you, Mr Secretary of State, have also mentioned that Romania, Slovakia, and therefore the neighbouring countries would like to enter this competition and wish to achieve better positions. So there really are actors, there are countries, there are large companies that are against Hungary's ability to build such good positions, so we cannot rule out the possibility that those here today who speak against the battery factory without any specific, validated data are doing so on behalf of those who were against Hungary building such strong positions in the field of battery production. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to bring up one more point. If we say that electrification will be the future, so not only electromobility in the field of transport, but also the current energy crisis in which we are living today will push the population in the direction that the use of energy by the public will go towards electricity, it is even more true that we cannot exist in the future without a battery. The economy will not work, not only because we have it in our phones, but because today, when someone is installing a solar system in their house, they also have to put a battery there. In fact, modern farms cannot operate without batteries. And if that's the case, and that's the case, then it's a matter of sovereignty that a country can make a battery for its own economy or not. If so, if we build good positions in this, then we can really stand on our own feet in this regard. If not, then in this situation, in this critical infrastructure, let's look at it this way, we will be exposed. So this is also a matter of sovereignty. In which it is worth listening to the Thuringians, since there has already been a factory like the one that will be built in Debrecen, there was a staff outside last week, and this staff has interviewed several of the people living there, which I would like to refer to my fellow left-wing Members. One of the passersby says that this is very good for Arnstadt, because the battery company creates a lot of new jobs, and the city can also develop a lot. I think this factory is not polluting at all, I'm not afraid of that. Another passerby says, "We must protect the environment from pollution and emissions, so it is great that this factory has been built with environmentally friendly technology and gives us the opportunity to learn about new experiences and modern experiences. These are the experiences of passersby and the people living there, so that factory is already in operation. [[Zoltán Varga: A month!]] So, in practice, you've experienced what it's like to operate that factory. In short, once again, there is a world-wide trend towards how the industry of the future will be built, where battery production is an extremely important place, so it is worth including it in the competition to build the technology of the future and the industry of the future. However, we represent it very strongly, and this is what we expect of all Hungarian authorities to comply with the strictest possible environmental rules. I think that if that is the case, it can reassure all those who otherwise have a legitimate fear of these new investments, since they have never seen it before. So I suggest that we not miss this opportunity, not listen to those foreign-funded parties who, by the way, say yes to battery development abroad, but want to say no to it in an interesting way in the country. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-02-27-311	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Bernadett Bakos of the LMP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2023-02-27-312	Thank you for the floor. I don't usually go into shadow boxing, but today there have been serious, unprofessional claims that can't be left unanswered. It was one of my favorites when they asked us to speak up for the electric cars, and these are the battery companies in a literal quote, so we're confused. The truth is, I don't think we're confused here, and it's quite incomprehensible that the Secretary of State for Energy doesn't see any fundamental context. We have never spoken in favour of slowly building battery factories for all settlements in Hungary, nor have we ever claimed that electric cars solve the climate crisis and otherwise all our problems, because this is not how they happen. Climate change is not going to be solved by, say, making more cars in the next ten years than we have in the last ten years, just electric. We will solve this by transforming our mobility, and this must be an integral part of reducing the share of motorcycling and increasing the share of public transport and reducing mobility constraints. I would be genuinely interested to know how the need for mobility and electromobility leads to the fact that battery factories really have to be built everywhere. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That's what you said!]] I'm sure we didn't say that. You boasted that Hungary is currently the fourth largest battery manufacturer in the world and that the battery has become a primary export product, and that this would now be increased further. Here too, the question is the measure and the scale. But even if we accept that the solution is to replace all cars with electrics, the formula doesn't come out, because these batteries are actually for export, as you said, so they're going to go into German and French cars. It is not necessary, as István Hollik said, that we can serve our own needs, they will not be Hungarian factories, but foreign factories, they produce batteries abroad. So the reason we have to install water-eating factories in the deserted Great Plain is to get into French and German electric cars. So the central countries should have the comfort of electric driving, and we will have the negative externalities, as they have repeatedly suggested, that they want to compete in technology. However, in the area of electromobility, as in the area of car manufacturers, you have brought only polluting and low-wage production into our country, and high-value R &amp; D at all. So what kind of technology competition can we take part in without having an opportunity to innovate ourselves, and we are practically the vulnerable end of this whole process? If it is funny enough, but they refer to the EU's directives, we may be the only parties who openly undertake on the opposition side that they are critical of the Union, and this whole question is a good example of why. The German industry, the leadership of the Union, the Hungarian government and the Hungarian people, the population of Győr and Komárom on the other side are on the same side. The EU represents the interests of car manufacturers as well as the Hungarian government. This policy isn't about our survival, it's about the auto factory. It's not about our healthy lives. It's about their profits. There is no regular railway development programme throughout the EU, not even in Hungary, and there is not even a coordinated timetable, yet their main concern is to support the green painting experiments of Audi and Volkswagen with full chest width. Climate change, the energy crisis, is indeed bringing a new type of competition into the world, but both the Union and the Hungarian government are still running in the opposite direction, and we do not understand exactly how the Union wants to regain its leading role based on energy-intensive industries in the current situation, when it has just been found that this is exactly what makes it extremely vulnerable. They are very fond of referring to foreign interests, but I would point out that those who represented the interests of foreign companies in this debate are not us. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the LMP.]]
u2023-02-27-313	Thank you, Congresswoman. We'd like to move on to two minutes. I give the floor to Péter Harrach, on behalf of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-02-27-314	Ladies and gentlemen, Much has been said and the opposite. I'll try to put my own thoughts on the point in two minutes, a little distracted from the specific details, perhaps. (The President's seat is Dóra Dúró, Vice-President of the Parliament.) It is a double responsibility to preserve the beauty and wealth of this world. [[0.30]] At the same time, he wants economic aspects, along with the creativity of man, to serve social well-being. A government must balance these two responsibilities, because then it can do what citizens want. So it is both an economic issue and an environmental issue at the same time. In part, the economic issue, as has been said, means the pressure of electric cars, it means ensuring our competitiveness, but they may not resent it if the environmental concern is more important to me and people's concern is understandable, even because production and consumption are often destroying the environment. But perhaps this aspect, which has been mentioned many times, is the rigour of our laws and the conscience of the authority, the only aspect that solves this issue, and it seems to be assured. Only because there is a three-stage authorisation process for design, execution and operation. And if we look at what has already been mentioned by more than one person here, and let me mention that Lajos Kósa's words and evidence support this, it shows that in this case, too, the authority acted with the right rigour. So this balance, which appears on these two issues, in two responsibilities, appears to be assured. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-02-27-315	Welcome, fellow Members. We will continue with the two-minute speeches. Congressman Zoltán Varga asked for the floor from DK, the remaining time frame is 32 seconds.
u2023-02-27-316	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to say very briefly, because I do have 30 seconds, and I would like to thank Mr Kósa for this wonderful evening. I think he has not added as much to the Hungarian parliamentarianism as he has done now, since the written description of the Tuszi-hutu. He spent a long time searching for the most water-intensive industry in Debrecen. I'd like to give you some advice: this is fishing. And believe me, the women of Debrecen would very much like it to be about fishing, not the water-eating Chinese battery companies. So if you're looking for the most water-intensive industry, you'll find this in fishing. I see you're looking confused, but no problem. You're gonna drink another shot, and you're gonna do it, believe me. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] Thank you very much. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: How dare you?!]]
u2023-02-27-317	We will continue the two-minute speeches. Congressman Erik Bánki, on behalf of Fidesz, has spoken. Here you go.
u2023-02-27-318	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Rebecca Szabó was undoubtedly the winner of tonight's big-time competition, because she outnumbered all the speakers in everything. It didn't bother him at all that these big speeches had nothing to do with reality. I would like to add two things to this House because it seems that it does not know or at least has not dealt with it in detail. But it doesn't look like he's even been to an industrial park. [[Rebecca Szabó intervenes several times.]] Because when I told you that, under the land protection law, the humus layer that was extracted must be placed in the area from which it was extracted, the congresswoman looked at me unintelligently, and said, "Well, where would I put it back when everything is paved?" No, Congresswoman, no! In an industrial area, you can't put concrete on everything, because there is also green land that needs to be kept. If you had been in a plant in your life, say, the Audi, the Mercedes or anywhere else, even in Dunaújváros, the Dunaújváros ironworks, you could see that there are also green surfaces, parking lots, and other surfaces where you are obliged to place the soil extracted there. The other insufferable way of putting it in a year's terms! hundreds of thousands of tons of hazardous waste will be processed at the Debrecen factory. I would like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that no recycling is included in the permit, the building permit and the operating licence. And finally, one last, once again the greatest saying is that the largest ecological footprint and the smallest profit characterizes this business. Mr Lajos Kósa also said that more than 90 percent of batteries can be recycled, so where there is a demand, they can be recycled, but this will not happen in Hungarian factories, Madam representative. [[Rebecca Szabó intervenes.]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-02-27-319	Congresswoman Rebecca Szabó has also applied. I give you the floor, please.
u2023-02-27-320	Thank you, Madam President. Dear House, Just a few things. Congressman Hollik said that whoever speaks against the battery companies is being funded by some kind of counterpower, so whoever speaks for him is being funded by the companies of the battery companies, so CATL and SK Innovation are funding them. I don't know, that's what you said. But in any case, since the Türingians' opinions have been given so long, I do not know whether they know the opinion of the Gödians or they talk to the Gödians. They would tell you that those who, by the way, mention how strict the Hungarian authorities are, how interesting it was that there was a groundwater monitoring well in which we should investigate pollution for the factory, but this is not being investigated, because it turned out that it was buried in 2018. It is also interesting that 39-40 times in the last two years there have been disasters, fire and safety violations, violations of the rules that have punished the Samsung factory in Göd. These authorities have tried to do something. They were punished for a few million forints, and the same violations occurred again. For example, more than 100 tons of dangerous substances were stored illegally at Samsung factory in Göd. I'm just wondering, when you're talking about our fantastic environmental and other rules and authorities, how about this? You think that's okay? And after that, the Samsung factory in Göd always gets another disaster management and other permits. Maybe you can look into that because there's a reason why people are so distrustful. By the way, they're building a pipeline for 27,000 cubic meters of water a day to the Samsung factory in Göd. This is Mészáros és Mészáros Kft. He's building it. It's interesting. So, there are specific data on the amount of water used by these factories, and now it's just the Göd factory, the Debrecen is probably going to be bigger than this. I would also like to add to Mr Lajos Kósa that the groundwater and surface water are connected. You might want to look into that. I would also say to Mr Bencsik, in the spirit of this, that karst water should be used for residential purposes, because the water used so far is used by the battery plant in Komárom. So there is a connection between why this karst water should be used. It's for the battery company. Thank you so much for the opportunity.
u2023-02-27-321	We are now returning to the pre-notified speakers, so it is up to Mr Zsolt Szabó, on the part of Fidesz. Congressman Lajos Kósa volunteered for two minutes. In the next round, of course, I can give you the floor. The floor now belongs to Congressman Zsolt Szabó.
u2023-02-27-322	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, If I may, I would also like to address some of the professional issues, but I would like to start by saying that there is a subject that we agree on in this matter, and that gives us a framework. There's been a survey. This was done by medical researchers at the University of Southern California. For ten years, they observed the number of asthmatic diseases and their care compared to the use of electric cars. It appears that the number of asthmatic diseases decreased by 3.2 percent in the case of an electric car proportional to the population. We cannot measure this in Hungary. Let's hope we know soon. [[Dr. István Apáti: Does Aksi cure asthma? Demercation in the benches of opposition parties.]] I think we can agree on this, or I trust that opposition representatives know the problem that asthma is causing in Hungary today. And then let's move on a little bit, so I can shed some light on a few questions. Here is the time when we say that a job-creating investment is not innovative, and then foreign workers will be in this and so much proportion. And what do we do with the allocation, the Hungarian supplier allocation? Where do we put those? when about half of the workers employed here may work in these supply companies. And not because they're registered there, but because they're going to deliver various services, manufacturing and other things. And energy is the other question. We're thinking very interestingly. An interesting animal is electricity, energy itself. He's not going where we tell him, he's always moving toward the smallest resistance, and right now, we can't keep him. We don't have high-mountain reservoirs like Austria, we can't put them anywhere, so we need to find a solution. It's a new idea, and that's where we're going with the energy communities. [[0.40]] We cannot exclude Hungary's villages, cities and institutions from building systems that are renewable energy, other types of energy produced as renewable energy and, say, storage. And this storage system can complement this large Hungarian system, the high-voltage networks, and I can store this electricity in it as well. We can import the battery, but it may be better to do it here in Hungary, in Hungary, in the production, handling and production of the battery. I'd invite everyone to a factory with a similar fire to see what it looks like. It's a rubber factory built on Pearlfish. We all remember when Gyöngyös was heavily attacked by this factory. It's built over there. You have to come, you have to look at the surveys, you have to follow the permits, you have to work well, you have to be environmentally in place, and let's go in a positive direction. Let's not classify a large system on the basis of a lot. Not because in a factory, a plant, this name has been mentioned several times from the mouth of Mrs Rebecca Szabó, I do not want to repeat it, not to classify the whole system, the entire procedural regulation, for her sake. And some minor contradictions that I can't place because I find unprofessional. Congresswoman Rebecca Szabó began her first speech by saying that because she consumes gas, consumes electricity and consumes a lot of water. My fellow Member, Mr Lajos Kósa, said the same thought, and I would be happy to tell you how much water it takes to process a ton of green peas. I would be very happy to tell you how many cold stores, other processing and food plants there are in Debrecen, where much more water is used, which at the moment is owned by the urban system, and can supply all kinds of raw materials, raw materials and other things. And the gas is not for the production of electricity, but for steam, for example. Or for heating. But it was a different kind of thing. So again, I think it's not a fully reviewed, reviewed reason to move forward. By the way, is it very interesting because on this basis, a food plant can't operate and can't be built in Debrecen? It is built in the same area, equally into infrastructure, energy, water, needs care, and not just in any quality. So I don't think that's a very good logic either. The other thing I wanted to say is that this is a question of territorial separation, a question of sustainable development. Let's not pretend we're taking an area, and it's surrounded, we're taking an area, it's surrounded by walls, and let's say, if the wind blows from the northwest, from coal mines or coal-fired power plants, we don't get carbon dioxide, or we don't get a sulfur-containing infection that's coming to Hungary! Let's not say our waters can't be contaminated any other way. Tisza. Surface water, river water. But it's safe to say it down in the layers of water. So we need to focus not on building or not building a plant, but on building it according to environmental parameters. How should we take care of our surroundings there? You know, the basic view is one: I cut down a tree, I plant two, and if that thought goes through all areas, then it shouldn't be a problem. Europe's entire air system, its entire water system, its entire soil system, cannot be distinguished. If they put an electric car in service in Germany, that's good for us. And I think that's true of the whole Earth, because many of the opposition parties are saying these thoughts that everything is connected to everything, see, CO2 emissions, CO2 quotas. I do not want to continue, I would very much like to discuss this subject on a professional basis, but only on a professional basis, not on an emotional basis, against something. I believe that the first and most important thing is job creation, an industrial plant that proves this idea of work in the long term. If they go to any village, ask how much work is needed, then people say two things. One, be on the edge of the village. And do you know how much? Four times the number of employees in the village, because you have the salary, working conditions, everything is competition. I think we should stick to this if we think responsibly and look ahead responsibly. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-02-27-323	Mr Matthew Kanász-Nagy, from the LMP faction, is next for a normal speech. Here you go.
u2023-02-27-324	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Dear House, Listening to the Fidesz and KDNP comments, a manual has come together here, which is actually a guide to how to become a Chinese battery ring, but you could also wear the subtitle to stay in the semi-periphery forever. After all, the first step is to serve the needs of Western German capital, bring the car companies here, assemble the cars here, which are typically exported to countries richer than we are. The second step is related to this: to create an attractive investment environment for the German capital, which can be achieved with a record low corporate tax, can be achieved through the reform of the labour code and various generous government subsidies. In the third step, we need to move with age: we need to recognise that these cars need batteries, so German cars need to be served with Chinese batteries. Well, what's the solution? Therefore, Chinese battery companies should also be brought here, with generous subsidies, infrastructure investments, tax incentives, and who knows what kind of state subsidies. It must be said that we have a record of a strict environmental institutional system that has been built here in front of our eyes for the past decade. Well, there is no Minister of the Environment in Hungary, but they are constantly de-regulating the regulation and institutional system of this. What is very, very important is that we must not ask the population what they think about this issue. Indeed, in 2008 Fidesz colleagues and colleagues thought otherwise: The news of May 30, 2008 is that Fidesz is protesting locally and nationally about the rubber factory to be installed next to Gyöngyös, right, we were talking about Apollo. It is interesting that Fidesz wanted to launch a referendum on environmental investments 15-16 years ago, and now he wants to deny this fact. But let's keep going. Obviously, these large factories need energy, well, there is Russian energy, Russian energy sources, and they need to be given more space, Russian natural gas, and Paks II, which is based on Russian credit. As an investment, we will feed these Chinese battery factories with these energy sources and electricity. And if the Hungarian network is not advanced enough, then it should not be developed in such a way that it can absorb wind energy or sun energy, they must be banned; in the case of solar energy, it is necessary to develop huge power lines to bring the electricity generated by nuclear power from Paks to Debrecen. This is what the decision published in the Hungarian Gazette was about, this is a 115 billion-dollar development in the first round. If this plan is done, this concept, then the marketing part is obviously to be considered, so this story must be sold to the country-world. First of all, the electric car ride and the bringing of battery factories here, so this package should be called a green switch, so it should be said that the battery is green. Here, we learned from Lajos Kósa that it practically produces the fields, makes the waters fade, and even reduces air pollution. We have also learned that the number of asthma diseases is also reduced by electric driving, so it is true that such miracles can be attributed to him. Moreover, there is no need to deal with the fact that they are fighting a freedom fight against Brussels, and in this matter, it must be pointed out to Brussels that Brussels is a great supporter of the green transition, because it has indeed recently been painted green, for example, the use of natural gas and nuclear power. So you have to do as hard as you can in this area. It is also not necessary to deal with the fact that far larger countries, therefore, have to do much less mathematical operations in proportion to the population, so much less battery plants are intended to be installed into their territory, so Germany, Scandinavia and the United States of America can be used as examples. [[0.50]] Nor should it be considered that these battery factories are to be set up almost at the height of the Arctic Circle, several kilometres away from the inhabited settlements, or in Tiringia or in the middle of the desert, in the United States of America, so these questions must also be silenced. Nor should we be surprised that German politicians support car manufacturers, which should be described as a good example, so we must follow this example in Hungary, too, because if the Germans want car manufacturers and batteries in their cars, then this should also be an example for us, too. It is also not necessary to address the need for water, energy demand and land and land in marketing activities. In fact, everyone must be promised that consumption, emissions can be increased, cars can be driven, electric cars are the happiness of the future, and if they have managed to feed this consumer demand even artificially or through political means, then there will obviously be a demand for electric cars. And if we have succeeded in doing this activity, we are really concerned that we have made Hungary a huge battery power or a battery ring, then we are able to eliminate the disturbing phenomena of nature that are still present, and otherwise, to use resources or water resources from future generations, and then you can live happily here in the semi-periphery, practically until we die. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the LMP benches.]]
u2023-02-27-325	We have a two-minute speech. Mr. Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP representative has come forward. Here you go.
u2023-02-27-326	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, We didn't say that, but we're used to you saying things we didn't say in today's debate. You guys, on the other hand... Congresswoman Bakos was not a Member at the time, but there was a campaign in the European Parliament that was not so memorable to you because you did not get into the European Parliament, but you started the elections to the European Parliament. They started, and you had a list leader, who you wisely selected, and this list leader did not tell us to deal with electromobility, but said that it was extremely important to quickly turn Hungarian car production into electric car production. That is a specific quote, honourable Member. That's what you said. [[Bernadette Bakos intervenes.]] That's what they said. I understand that you now, when your political interest at the moment requires you to support electric cars with no batteries, I understand that now you need everything else from the electric car, but not the battery, and I understand that, but not 10-20 and 50 years ago, but two and a half years ago. This was on the flag of your program. Gábor Vágó, your list leader has said this more than once, not twice. In fact, you said that if we produced electric and hybrid cars, we would not fully achieve the green shift, and I agree with that, but your Member of Parliament submitted a proposal for a resolution to the House to achieve what the European Parliament wanted in 2035 by 2030. In Hungary, it should be possible to ban all diesel and petrol-powered cars more quickly. That's what you represented. Congresswoman, where are you going to get these cars you're going to switch to, battery, where are you going to get a drive train, where are you going to get a lot of stuff that's going to happen in the supply chain? You might want to think about that, because what you're saying right now and what you said a week ago, you said two days ago, it's completely out of line with each other. I think we should get these straight first. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-02-27-327	The next two-minute speaker is Congressman Lajos Kósa, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2023-02-27-328	Thank you very much, Madam President, this House. I would just like to record the facts, because so many times have been referred to, most recently my fellow Member, Mr Kanász-Nagy, in the so-called local referendum: let us ask the Debrecen's opinion on the battery plant, a local referendum initiative. Now the facts. The LMP has submitted a referendum initiative to the local electoral committee. The local election committee has passed this and the LMP has been informed that signature collection sheets can be entered. They weren't able to go in and record, let alone collect a single signature, but they weren't able to get the LMP's huge organization, the national network, the true warriors of the green case, to go in and say it's good, at least give me the questionnaires. Okay, we don't collect any, and it's all bullshit, we don't take it seriously, we don't even care what the Debrecen think, but at least give it to us. This insolence, and then they're gonna claim that we don't want people's opinions! But, we asked for it, we organised a public hearing, a number of posts in this case, and you were unable to go in and take the referendum questionnaires you initiated. So much for that. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-02-27-329	Congressman Antal Csárdi asked for the floor, on behalf of the LMP in two minutes, but he only has 35 seconds. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-02-27-330	Thank you very much. I think we've figured it out. Tonight has its results. Lajos Kósa is therefore trying to achieve transparency and the request for opinions in postings. I think that's why I should come today. I would like to say quietly that Thuringia has a much higher precipitation rate, and I am not saying that to my colleague Kosa, but to my fellow Member Nacsa as his Debrecen neighbourhood. But I'm afraid there's no way I can explain this any better now, in the absence of time. Thank you very much, Mr Kósa, for a happy evening. Thank you. [[Applause from the LMP benches.]]
u2023-02-27-331	The next two-minute comment is Congressman István Apáti, Mi Hazank. Here you go.
u2023-02-27-332	Thank you very much for the floor. Let's say once again that the 2035 changeover deadline will be extended and extended by decades. There are absolutely no frivolous, technical, financial, or any conditions in countries far richer than us for this complete transition to take place. However, the fact that LMP has acted irresponsiblely and has made itself frivolous does not mean that, among the questions that have already been submitted and which have just been submitted, the questions of our country cannot be passed through by the local election committee in Debrecen. If you really see these circumstances as so clear and think that you have informed people enough, then there is certainly no reason to run into a local referendum, first of all, a signature collection, and then, if 33 685 signatures are at least assembled, then a local referendum that decides on the government's economic policy on the ground and otherwise on a national basis can be issued. This is not a small investment, it is not an ordinary investment, but Hungary, if you can believe the news, the largest battery plant in Europe. It is not every day that the largest investment in some genre is built on the borders of every settlement in Hungary at European level. So if you are not afraid of the opinion of the voters in Debrecen, you will allow this referendum question. In this way, the LMP has taken advantage of the opportunity, but the issue of our country remains the only one of the opposition parties. So we're very curious about the decision of the local election committee. Thank you.
u2023-02-27-333	We are going back to the list of the speakers that have been announced, and we are going to be followed by Mr Kristóf Szatmáry, from the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2023-02-27-334	Thank you very much. Dear House, Madam President, Just in a very short sense, let me draw so many lessons from this debate that this few-hour debate was not undeserving. We may see a number of issues more clearly, but there may be some things in which we have not come closer to understanding. One of these, in which we see more clearly, is that there is environmental protection in Hungary, there are rules on this, which has authorities that enforce them. By the way, it was said that where this is not observed, the authorities will also impose penalties. It is also clear from this debate that such an investment can be made in Hungary and Debrecen by complying with the strictest environmental conditions. It was also apparent from the debate that the legitimate need of the public to have an investment meet the strictest environmental conditions is how this legitimate need can be used as a hysterical act of irresponsible opposition politics. [[1.00]] Unfortunately, this has come out in today's debate that the opposition is a major part of the opposition, so I would say basically on the basis of a political and who knows where it can be traced. We may also see a little more clearly, a little wider immersion, that the loudest soldiers of the green revolution are going into a series of technological developments that really aim to reduce the footprints of mankind, how they put it. [[Sic!]] We know for a long time that nuclear power is not good for them. Now it has also turned out that electromobility and the associated developments are not good either. I can't even begin to think about when the solar panel problem will turn up. As far as I know, solar panels as hazardous waste are far more dangerous than any other or any other battery plant mentioned here. So I think that we can see a number of things more clearly after today's debate, but one thing I failed to do, at least I would like to explain from the speeches of the left-wing opposition representatives, that they do not want to invest in Hungary in general, because the land and its comments on this... [[To intervene:]] I listened to him during his interview. So they usually have problems with investment in general, they usually have problems with foreign investments, including whether they have problems with Asian investments, or they also have problems with electromobility investments that represent the future industry, or with battery factories in particular, or they simply do not want a battery factory in Debrecen. Which of these six are the ones you really have a problem with, at least it hasn't crystallized for me. One thing we can say is that we support, under strict environmental conditions, of course, an investment that is important for the future, such as this battery plant. I do not want to make any more comments, but I would like to respond to an important comment. I have also spoken to Mr President here that it was indeed a good tip, and as a member of the Economic Committee, I will suggest that the Economic Committee, as previously, such as Kecskemét, visit a battery factory, a working company, where we can see how it is, and hopefully everyone involved in it, can rest assured that such a future investment can be made in Hungary under important environmental conditions. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-27-335	The next speaker was Mr Barna Pál Zsigmond, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2023-02-27-336	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, I have also prepared a speech here in the Committee on Foreign Affairs with some colleagues, but a lot has been said, so I do not wish to say it, but I would rather respond to some of the issues that have been said. First of all, as Mr. State Secretary said, there is a huge competition in the world, and Hungary has done well in this competition, thanks to the work of Hungarian people and, among other things, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, because for these large investments we are competing with neighbouring countries. When I was preparing for the speech, I thought that there would be a real professional debate here today between the walls of this House, but I am saddened to see that there is no professional debate, there is a political appeal on the part of the opposition, on the left. A lot of people didn't come to this debate while they initiated it, and they came, and like Búszlímphony in Hayd, they slowly leaked out one by one. This also indicates that they are not really interested in exactly what battery production means for Hungary, but have actually conducted a municipal campaign. Here they talked about individual constituencies, and everyone tried to use this topic for their own benefit. Congressman Bánki gave Rebeka Szabó the prestigious prize, and I gave Mr Varga the prize of hypocrisy or the prize of the main imager, because he was one of the main initiators of this debate, and he left the scene very quickly. But here was Balázs Barkóczi, who talked about Újpest, the Metropolitan Waste Management Works, and the incinerator, which is on the edge of the district. I also live in Újpesten, I have lived in Újpesten for almost thirty years, I remember how many debates there were, how polluting, how polluting, is very close to the housing site and the border of the district, and today we heard the pride of the district. Although the district does not have much to do with it because it belongs to the capital city, it was built at some point as a state investment, and indeed today this power plant produces cheap energy for the inhabitants of the area, and all regulations, all very strict environmental regulations, and therefore does not endanger the health of residents in the area, so Mr Barkóczi Balázs is proud to refer to it. We are proud of Újpest, what the municipality led by Fidesz built on our market, which we heated with waste heat, and if Mr.Máté Kanász-Nagy had focused on the work in Újpest in recent years, not on slogans and puffing, then he wouldn't have stopped Újpest's development, as you were a member of the coalition that led Újpest three and a half years ago since the left had taken over the city. What we see is that it's such a pep talk, so to speak, it's big talk, it's Facebooking, but there's no work to be done. They attacked the investment we did with the waste heat, and today it's good to have it, because it's a cheap way to heat the market and the Újpest cultural house. So, overall, I see that there is a very big competition here, and Hungary is doing well in this competition. Just as an interesting detail: on the other side of the border, Oradea, a huge rubber factory is now being built out of 600 million euros, which, if it is built there, may not have an impact on the requirements to be followed. Or perhaps we should quote what Igor Matovič said when he heard that the CATL was coming to Hungary, he said that Hungary was speeding like a rocket, Slovakia looked like a poor relative. Let us remember in 2010 how jealous we were of Slovakia in 2010 and where Slovakia is today and where we are, as a result of the blessed activities of the Gyurcsány government. So it is important for the economy to continue to develop, and those who are attacking these factories today, are putting tens of thousands of jobs at risk, and are achieving jobs in another country or other countries. Those who drive against these modern technologies are ultimately seriously threatening our environment, because without electric batteries there are no electric cars, and then there is no renewal of transport, so we cannot meet the environmental objectives. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-27-337	Our next speaker is Mrs Elias Boglárka, also from the Fidesz faction. Here you go.
u2023-02-27-338	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. So at the end of the debate, I will also try to shorten my comment, but I would certainly like to share with you that, when I was preparing for today's debate, I have been thinking about a number of things, such as the fact that I find it difficult to imagine, now I could hardly have imagined that left-wing Members would have known or informed about the decision of the European Union that from 2035 onwards only electric cars could be placed on the market on the continent. I could hardly imagine this because left-wing MEPs voted in favour of it. Just as it was hard for me to imagine that they would not have heard of similar factories within the continent or even in the United States of America, for example in Spain, the Czech Republic, Poland or Slovakia or Germany, or had already been built or planned to build. I also found it hard to imagine that they had not heard about the anti-inflationary law, which came into force in the United States from 1 January, and it is quite clear that the capital that we would like to attract here in part, or that it is already in the European Union, is being pulled out of this area, and this specifically concerns the industries or sectors that would facilitate green transition. Maybe it's an exaggeration, maybe it's not an exaggeration to say that this is an industrial revolution for our generation. [[1.10]] But now that I have been able to listen to this debate, I know and see that we have drawn this up among our arguments, and I assume that you have been informed of this earlier. At the same time, I was very shocked at the things you said. There are some things I'm less shocked by, for example, that they're at war with numbers, with the necessary and sufficient amount of water. However, I cannot determine through which glasses gray water, i.e. purified sewage, should be seen as karst water. In the course of the debate, I was outraged by the fact that some people directly underestimate the Hungarian authorities and the people who work in these areas, the activities they do, I think, in an exemplary manner, are not considered sufficient, even though they are working to enforce very strict rules. These are the rules which are binding on all Member States in relation to the European Union. There are rules that are even more stringent in Hungary than those required in Germany when establishing or setting up the factory in Thuringia. Given the time constraints, if you will allow me, I would like to conclude with what we probably agree on, at least I hope we agree on. In the fact that water is our national treasure, I think we should agree, and we have a duty to protect it, as well as our environment, our land, our land. It has been said several times that this has been an industrial park land since 2001. And, of course, our air must also be protected, and this is exactly what compliance and enforcement of strict rules serve. But there is already a consensus, and not only here, but also within the European Union, that, according to our knowledge, we accept that electricity is pure energy, which is perhaps the best way to ensure climate protection when we talk about a portable energy source. There are relatively strict deadlines now. I am thinking of 2035 while we have to ensure this transition. Competition has already started, and competition is going on for jobs in the future, but competition is also going on for sustainable and expandable support schemes, as this is what will determine the economy of the future in Hungary as well. And the future is also for affordable and clean transport. In view of the fact that there really are not many of us left in this room, including those who initiated the debate, or who left the Chamber at the beginning of the debate, I am less likely to assume that they will ever be in government. But if this is to happen at least on a principle level, then you will have to deal with these questions towards the Hungarian voters. They must account for the fact that we have started in this competition, where we are in this competition, so that jobs and sustainable futures can be secured either by the economy or by affordable clean transport. I think it's all our responsibility. And thank you, everyone, who's still here at 3:15 in this debate. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-27-339	The list of speakers announced in writing is closed by Congresswoman Mónika Bartos, from the Fidesz Group. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2023-02-27-340	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Madam President, Dear Secretary of State, Perhaps we remember the year 2015; then the world was eager to succeed in the UN climate change conference, in the Paris agreement we could find a common solution to climate change and its effects. We said then, and we have been saying ever since, that there is a need for a change of perspective, and even a need to unite every layer of society. And it is a great pleasure that European citizens, and many Hungarians in particular, understood the need for this, because while in 2019 the sale of electric cars on the market represented 1.9 percent, in 2022 data showed more than 12 percent. Thus, the European Union market has already exceeded 12% of the sales of electric cars. And as Hungary has first ratified the Paris Agreement from among the Member States of the European Union, we can now take the lead in green industrial development, and we can achieve that the objectives set out in the Paris Agreement can be helped by stimulating e-mobility, since the use of electric cars is one of the tools for this; it is not the only one, but one of the tools. Indeed, transport, which is one of the largest carbon-emission, air-polluting sectors, must be greened. This is borne out by the European Commission's decision, which my fellow Members have mentioned many times, and it follows that time has passed over diesel and petrol-powered cars. When we talk about this, we must not forget that we are talking about the position of 160,000 Hungarians. So when the government supports the production of electric cars, it wants to save 160,000 jobs, because where electric cars are made, there will be a automotive industry at all. In fact, competition is for the development and benefits of green energy and green industry and jobs. I, as a member of the Hungarian Presidency of the Interparlamental Union, am also a member of the UN Committee, and in February I was able to attend a UN hearing in New York, which precedes the summit of water in March. Csaba Kőrösi, President of the United Nations General Assembly, who we all know very well in addition to President János Áder, as Head of the Directorate for Environmental Sustainability, has done a lot to achieve sustainable development goals. And the President of the General Assembly himself said that we still have to fight for sustainable development goals, but all the tools, all the knowledge, all the technology, all the knowledge of science available are enough to achieve these goals. In this way, we can also achieve the water goals that we are now talking about. And my fellow pro-government Members said that the protection of natural resources should not and should not be opposed to the development of the green industry, since these two can be matched. And if that is true, then why should Hungary be the loser of this competition when it can win. The Prime Minister and my fellow Members have also said that very strict environmental and safety conditions must be met by the Debrecen investment, factory, and, if that is the case, the protection of natural resources can be ensured and that Hungary will also be the winner of green industrial development. We have been waiting for decades for this to happen, and when it does, why is it necessary that Hungary does not come out of this as a winner. [[Sic!]] I wish Hungary to be the winner of this turn of events, and we have every opportunity to put our knowledge, our technology, into the service of this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-27-341	I would like to ask my fellow Members that, in the remaining timeframes, someone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an applicant; the political debate is closed. On behalf of the authors, Mr Lóránt Keresztes indicated that he wanted to respond to what was said in the debate. There is a 20-minute time frame for this at the disposal of the Member. There you go. I'll give you the floor.
u2023-02-27-342	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, So I'm gonna make sure I don't take these 20 minutes around quarter to two. Although I think that we all feel the importance of this matter, we all feel that we have an obligation to be here, we have a duty to participate in this debate, and we have a duty to argue to the best of our knowledge. That is what we have done, which is why we have been involved in the initiative of this debate. And personally, I have also sought to create as many forums as possible so that we can discuss this issue, which we believe will fundamentally determine the future of the Hungarian nation, not as part of a political debate, but as part of a policy debate. I think that this debate was important, even if, in the end, it was right for those who introduced it so that opinions would not be much closer. I am so self-critical, I have also perceived statements from the opposition side, comments that I did not consider particularly relevant, but I can say that the pro-government representatives, the present secretary of state and pro-government representatives simply do not want to be aware of facts that are also in documents issued by the authorities. [[1.20]] They do not want to be aware of facts that have otherwise been explained very clearly, supported not by opposition politicians but by experts. I believe that, in relation to the dilemma on which I quoted speeches on your political side, you have remained in complete denial about those issues from the academic László Palkovics, Péter Kaderjak, Secretary-General of the Battery Association. So these actors, László Palkovics, who was the Minister for the Environment and Energy Policy, could honestly say that this industry, and in particular battery production, has a very strong and gross negative side, and this has a very, very serious price, and the price must be paid in the countries where this industry is employed. You, we can say, have not taken a step towards recognising this, nor have you taken a step towards achieving the importance of which Péter Kaderjak has spoken, that these prices, these risks, the extent of this environmental burden, must be spoken frankly and clearly. And similarly, even in the last pro-government comment, they practically combined this whole industry, electromobility and battery production within it, and they wanted to draw a balance that, overall, the use of batteries created by the battery companies that are established here or anywhere in Hungary and the extent of electromobility can be described in this respect with a positive balance, which may be true, but Hungary pays the price for this. So you simply ignore the fact that the scale of the problem is serious in Hungary, and you simply ignore that the environmental burden, the price you want to pay for it, is unacceptable and simply incompatible with the scale that could be expected here in Hungary. In particular, the situation is, as I pointed out in my previous comment, that you want to make our grandchildren, Hungarian people, Hungarian children, Hungarian grandchildren, pay for the cost of the green transition of the rich West, and you support this with a prognosis that even the battery lobby didn't dare to do. It was not long ago that a committee meeting, a meeting of the Committee on Sustainable Development, was held, where I invited the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Minister, but indicating that we also welcome the Deputy State Secretary, we also invited the Ministry of Energy, in terms of water utilities and environmental protection, we invited the National Directorate-General for Water and many other relevant stakeholders, and invited the Alliance of Battery, did we not, Péter Kaderják, the leader, to attend. I find it quite amazing that there was a huge interest in this meeting, and there were representatives of the population concerned with the biggest development projects at present, specifically a larger room, the Chamber of the Economic Committee, the room was full, and they could hardly sit down; the guests could sit down because there were no representatives of the government, and many seats remained empty. Here, for about two and a half or three hours in an informal committee meeting, not making noise, not slapping, not looking for trouble, people making up dilemmas, and the residents involved, but they came from Győrszentiván, Göd, from Debrecen, Mikepércsi. They asked questions about which... [[Lajos Kósa: The other city!]] That is true, but they are affected by this question, and they have the right to answer those questions. He didn't show up, none of the DODs showed up. I specifically asked, by the way, the Ministry of Energy indicated to me that the Minister would be abroad on that very day, and I replied that it was okay, please indicate who will replace the Minister. Nothing, I didn't get any answers after that. At 6:58 p.m. on the day of the committee meeting, the Fidesz MEPs replied that they did not want to attend the meeting, because there are holidays. Now, I think that you have, to say the least, told me that you consider this issue a net political issue. They do not want to participate in contentious, professional debates, you want to use propaganda, so to speak, the means of discrediting the debate partners, as you have otherwise confirmed. You do not want to hear the arguments which have been made, or, if any, translated, by any means, the Secretary of State quoted from the WWF expert; you were not present at that meeting; I am glad that you at least heard what was going on there, but, in fact, the expert said exactly the opposite. So the problem is that you are doing the opposite of what the battery lobby, Peter Kaderjak, is now naming him in a bit of an evil way as the face of the battery lobby would have been expected to do without an honest, clear, open dialogue; and you have virtually prevented this. Well, then some things really are. You have to react. As regards water demand, Congressman Kósa said that the first concrete information about the amount of water required by this particular Chinese battery plant planned for Debrecen, László Palkovics, still a practicing minister, was heard from his presentation on 27 October last year, and he said that there would be a water demand of 40,000 cubic meters for this plant; he said there that this technology would require clean water and that the energy demand of this plant corresponds to the energy demand of about one and a half Paks nuclear power plant block. After that, a number war began to determine exactly how much water demand this factory would require, by the way, I noticed that no one would dispute it. Now, compared to that, studies appeared, disappeared, changed, statements such as these were made, statements, practically a cluttering speech about how much water is needed only for this one factory. But if you look at the other parameters, and you put that in proportion, say, to the water demand of the Göd factory, then I think that the values that came out so suddenly appeared in that disappearing expert material, which has, in fact, been passed to the public. The only thing I don't understand, Congressman or Secretary of State, is why they don't release clear and exact data. Anyway, let me ask you a few of us here, we're talking to ourselves, let me ask you, if you know, specifically, that if we just take the water demand of the planned battery plant in Debrecen and compare it or put it side by side with the water demand of the existing and all the planned battery factories, then we get a total value. There is such a battery strategy, which calculates such a 10-percent increase in water demand, but this battery strategy does not even include the Debrecen factory. So if it's all here! You're in the right place, you've made all the right decisions, so you've basically made a complete strategic analysis, so why are you hiding this information? And I'm not talking about us, I'm talking about the Hungarian people, the public. Why aren't I published, Mr. Secretary, for three written questions and for today's interpellation, a clear figure has not been published as to the total water demand and the total energy demand for these battery factories? So this, I think, if you hide these basic numbers, it completely discredits what you have said here, that you want to act responsibly on this issue. Here's the question of gray water. Well, this is not the case in the first place in this environmental permit, but it has also been said in the communication that this particular planned Debrecen battery factory has been broken down into three stages, and they want to solve some percentage of the average water demand at the level of communication from the grey water programme, as it has been said, that virtually no basis for this infrastructure is yet available. So, specifically, you have projected a fictitious solution here to reduce water demand, but in such a way that it is only at a certain level of the average water demand at the first stage. So there is no answer in any way, and when it is clearly read from the official documents, even when Congresswoman Boglárka Illés refers to this, when she knows precisely that this is unfounded, it is not so. And by the way, László Palkovics, as Minister, said that this technology here requires clean water. In addition to the fact that this grey water program exists in virtual reality, specifically this technology requires clean water, and it has also been said that there are layers of water used here, and by the way, during this particular public hearing in Debrecen, there have been anger-driven speeches, there have been heated, unprofessional questions, but there have also been relevant questions, and the question of how much, to what extent, the water base can reproduce under Debrecen, let's say, but the question of how long, so, in addition to such abstractions, it will take, could no longer be answered. So the local leader of the waterworks has also acknowledged that it is clear that the trend we are seeing is climate change and everything else that affects these processes, and it is not safe to say that if such a huge amount of water abstraction develops in a stable way, it can last for how long. [[1.30]] By the way, the expert at the WWF said at the committee meeting, as an example of how vulnerable, how critical the water base under Debrecen is. In particular, the city is sinking 0.5-5 millimeters per year and is not guaranteed at all, it cannot be modelled that if such additional water demand appears, it will not have a drastic impact on this already difficult situation. I won't be able to put everything in my speech because of the tight time frame. [[Intercom from KDNP lines.]] I have the ambition, but there's only so much that has been said to respond. It's a matter of noise. The Mikepércs public hearing was convened by the pro-government mayor of the settlement. On this he did not appear, nor did the mayor of Debrecen, nor did the local representative of the Chinese factory's subsidiary appear. Everyone sent a message of this kind, but there was also the question that, in connection with this brutal noise load, let's say, a protective forest settlement would be carried out. There was no answer to that. It turned out that this would be resolved by the municipality, or solved by whoever wanted it, because it would not be possible for the manufacturer to receive an unforgiving amount of public funding, by the way. Once again, a strict legislative environment and trust in official supervision have been said many times by my pro-government colleagues. I'm just trying to give you an example here again very quickly. During the public hearing in Debrecen, several people raised the example of why it happened that when it came to the water base, hazardous substances and solvents could be found that they had to sue to get the results of the monitoring well that was supposed to be operating on the site of the factory. It wasn't that when such a risk arose, the authorities immediately ordered a rigorous investigation, but encrypted these data, and when the Gödért Association received several lawsuits, it turned out that they hadn't taken a water sample since 2016 and buried the well in 2018. When people asked me about this at the official pit public hearing, do you know what the officials said? That it's a disgrace. So they said in the case of the pit in Debrecen that it was a disgrace. The only problem is that we operate in the same legal environment, so to speak, a government man in Debrecen can provide guarantees as much as a government man in Göd that the authorities are able to protect the interests of the residents. In the beginning, what is the explanation for the need to sue the Göd civilians in order to obtain this information? Allow me very briefly to make some reference to the economic aspects. The lack of free labour in Debrecen is an evidence for everyone. This was also asked at the public hearing in Mikepércsen and Debrecen that there was any document that could be stated that they wanted to employ basically, typically or decisively Hungarian labour force. Turns out there isn't. Obviously, there's no guarantee of that. Here, it is obvious that they want to base this production on foreign migrant workers, and then it is quite clear that this does not lead to higher levels of wages, but to lower levels. It is certainly not in Hungary's interest to employ, so to say, low-paid workers in this way, and to operate this foreign factory in this way, by the way, that is a very correct wording by the Minister of State. We've already talked about the energy demand. It can also be seen that an amazing amount of public money is being given to these factories as a subsidy. In the case of Debrecen, we are talking directly about 110 billion and, overall, 300 billion. But if you look at how much more public money is being used to build the basic infrastructure, it's amazing. And then I'll just give you one more example. We have talked many times about the situation of the Hungarian water utility system, that this system is practically on the verge of collapse. In November, I asked Prime Minister, who said that by 2024 there would be no substantial money for the development of the highly degraded water utility infrastructure. So you've made it clear that there won't be a source for this, while we know exactly that the system is in shockingly bad condition, it's about 25 percent... [[Lőrinc Nacsa: This is not the subject of today's debate!]] But, Mr President, the Prime Minister of Hungary says that there is no money for wasted infrastructure necessary for the supply of drinking water to Hungarian people and the protection of water bases, and on the other hand, how much public money is spent to serve the water needs of battery factories. In the case of Iváncsa, there are more than 30 billion people, more than 30 billion people in the development of Göd, and we can also see the figures in Debrecen. Thus, while Hungarians are not being given public money to maintain their drinking water supply, ten billion people are flying to supply drinking water to foreign battery manufacturers. These are also facts, my fellow Members, facts that I think are saddening. By the way, this is what Minister Palkovic referred to at his hearing in the Commission, when we asked him how he could have spent so much money on the water supply of battery factories, while he was in such a terrible state, and he simply solved it with the answer that he could not get everything. So your choice of value is that these large foreign factories have tens of billions of HUF for water utility development, and because of the supply of Hungarian people, they do not have access to important infrastructure. Overall, it is also unsubstantiated that there is some kind of technological development here that your battery power plan can contribute. There will be no technology here, practically everything is solved by import, the machines, the raw materials, the technology. Natural treasures are used from Hungary. It has been said several times that they offer opportunities for practically trained workers and otherwise alien migrant workers. We believe that these are simply extremely energy-intensive assembly plants. Assembly plants that, from a technological point of view, will not make any progress for Hungary. We believe that Hungary should strengthen, develop and expand its economic policy in the area of knowledge economy. We should not become a assembly country to an increasing extent, we should not increase vulnerability, we should develop a knowledge-based economy, we should trust the knowledge and talent of Hungarian professionals. This is the direction in which the future should be strengthened in Hungary. So in total, we can say that these plans serve to achieve the green shift in Western Europe through the enrichment of Chinese or Korean manufacturers, through the sacrifice of Hungarian natural resources. One more thought at the end. I think you are seriously underestimating people who can talk about Debrecen in the given areas, and who want to fight against any other settlement for their own living environment, for their cities. I think that no one is allowed to do that, nor are left-wing politicians, nor is it possible for anyone to go directly against their own city. The mayor of Debrecen said in a statement that he would support the battery company even if the people of Debrecen didn't. I think he's going down here... [[An intervention from the Fidesz ranks.]] that is what he said, because he believes that it is still in the best interests of the city, I think that this is where local politics is failing; a mayor, a city's general assembly, should never oppose the will of the citizens of a given city. You will certainly experience this in Debrecen. There have been several cities in Hungary where they have experienced this. The city of Pécs is the same, by the way. I think it is in all our interests to respect the intentions of the local people, to provide information, to show respect. It is not for us opposition politicians to give respect, but for these cities, the people who live there, regardless of the party policy color. By the way, I've talked to a lot of people in Mikepérc, too, in Debrecen, and I've talked to a lot of Fidesz voters. We were able to talk in a perfectly good mood, in a fair way, and they acknowledged that they were facing this issue, along with Fidesz voters, and they wanted to express their views on this. That's why we strive [[Nacsa Lawrence will have his glass jogged.]] To give people the opportunity to decide their own city. I'm sorry, everyone, but I couldn't shorten the 20 minutes. Thank you very much.
u2023-02-27-343	On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Levente Magyar responds to what was said in the debate, and he also has a 20-minute timeframe. Here you go.
u2023-02-27-344	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, We don't underestimate the voters, you do, because you're initiating a debate on such an important issue, we're sitting here at 1:30, and you're here alone from the opposition. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] And here are a dozen pro-government representatives. Obviously, this is not primarily for you, but for the entire Hungarian opposition. [[Lajos Kósa: Although this is 20 percent of the LMP!]] You are Members of Parliament, representing the voters. The real disdain to the voters is that they simply do not participate in a debate on such a truly strategic issue and on your initiative. [[1.40]] As a matter of fact, I was happy to spend the evening with you, but I don't really understand why now and why in this form. Battery factories have been operating in Hungary for at least half a decade. The numbers have been given, I do not repeat myself, nearly 50 battery factories or battery-related projects have been approved in Hungary. A significant part of these works, you can go, you can look. Wasn't the previous one a problem? What's not in Debrecen, wasn't that a problem? What's not Chinese wasn't a problem? They're doing the same thing. The Koreans are doing the same thing, and the Germans are doing the same thing, and the Japanese are doing the same thing, and there's also Japanese in Miskolc. So what I don't understand is what's all the fuss about. Each working battery factory has been announced, initiated with the usual roundup, not as secret laboratories, but as a result of completely public events. So why are we here now? Just because the factory in Debrecen is bigger than before? By the way, during the debate here, I've been looking at satellite footage, the factory in Thuringia is the size of a square meter in Debrecen, and here you are saying that it's smaller and does something else. It's 900 meters from the first building, Debrecen won't be any closer. So here, in particular, honourable Member, we've been talking about it all night. I've been doing all night with the bullshit, the deliberate mixing of the numbers. It is disrespectful, once again, I think, to the voters, in addition to taking part in the debate in such a small number, to come here unprepared and toss all kinds of numbers, and tossing. Instead, we could have had a dedicated professional debate on square meters, cubic metres, any specific parameter that we are obviously ready to discuss, and we will continue to be ready to hold such debates in the future. I'm sorry the positions didn't come close. I was expecting a sensible debate, time had come. The attitude of the Hungarian opposition is assessed by the fact that we have come this far. Of course, the government will not be distracted from its goal by the confusic charge, we will continue to support the battery companies, and we would like to see as many of these investments as possible in Hungary. Once again, these are not exclusive investments, this does not mean that we want to neglect the food industry, this does not mean that we want to neglect the knowledge economy, but this will be a pillar of the structure of the Hungarian economy in the coming decades, which is essential to sustain the success of so far. It is quite clear that we are in an era change, and those who do not think 5-10-15 years ahead will be left behind. If we took the automotive industry out of the Hungarian economy now, we could look at ourselves, and we might be in this condition in ten years' time, if we hadn't let in all its segments, and then we could see ourselves. [[Andrea Hegedüs intervenes.]] It'll be late, Congresswoman, and we'll start thinking about it. So I think that we have been able to defend our position and, of course, for further professional debates on this extremely important issue, which rightly interests people, we are ready to participate. My request is that we continue our future work prepared and with a more serious attitude. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-02-27-345	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First, Mr Lóránt Keresztes applied for a speech after the agenda, entitled "Our City, Pécs 98." I'll give the floor to Congressman. Here you go.
u2023-02-27-346	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, in my speeches after the agenda, I usually talk about the problems of my country, Pécs and Baranya County, and the challenges facing my city, which I do today. The natural environment of the city of Pécs has been faced several times with challenges, significant pollutions, and plans that would pose a very significant risk to the healthy residential environment of Pécs. It is fortunate that the population of the city of Pécs has always been able to prove that they are willing to defend the healthy environment of our city against any colored government, if any, or against any interest. Unfortunately, I have to tell you that these challenges are now again, and these risks are once again emerging in the city of Pécs. In particular, certain government efforts and government intentions coincide with the servitude of the local Fidesz organization operating in the city, and have been in the case of Pécs. Perhaps we all remember that in the second half of the 2000s, the then Balliberal Government decided to build a military locator over the city of Pécs on Mount Tubes, and it was slavishly served by the city's Balliberal leadership at that time. So it can be seen that the national government, the left-wing government and the local left-wing city administration were united against the interests of the Pécs, but Pécs was still able to defend his interests and defend his right; the left-wing city leadership of Pécs fell into this. There has now been a debate recently before the General Assembly in Pécs, we can say that there is a debate in principle. The point of this debate was that if, if, where appropriate, Pécs, let us say, an investment, an investor that wants to set up a risky, dangerous plant, would want to start such an investment, then the inhabitants of Pécs should always be given the opportunity to express their opinion that they would make a practical contribution to such a risky investment or not. And in this debate, the local Fidesz organization has taken an amazing position. They argued that this possibility could not be given to the local community, so they predicted that if such risks were to come to the city, they could not be expected, and unfortunately there are risks of this kind. You can see that, and for several hours today, we have had a debate about the government's desire to turn Hungary into a power of battery manufacturer, and we know that this is insanely energy-intensive. Only the Debrecen battery plant will have as much energy as one and a half blocks of the nuclear power plant currently operating will provide. So we can say that in order to be able to install in Hungary with a mass of foreign battery factories, the government wants to build nuclear power plant blocks from the Hungarian people's tax forints. So we can say that they still want to invest in energy so that they can supply foreign battery manufacturers. In this context, we know exactly what dangers, what risks affect the city of Pécs, with regard to the two dirty ends of nuclear energy, if you can put it that way. In many debates, we have talked about the fact that we believe that nuclear energy is not green, it is not cheap and it is not safe, it is at significant risks. We also talked about the fact that the use of nuclear power, if any, does not mean greater energy independence for Hungary, as we are vulnerable to fuel. In this connection, Prime Minister, at his last press conference at the end of last year, made a very interesting and certainly significant statement. This statement cannot be called positive, but it is important to pay attention to the content of this statement. The Prime Minister said that we have uranium resources that are capable of being offered in exchange for fuel. So he linked the uranium reserves in Hungary to Russian fuel, nuclear fuel. Well, we know very well that some investors have wanted to open a new uranium mine under Pécs for many years, which will have amazing environmental risks, and otherwise Pécs has already rejected it. I have asked in countless forums what the government's position is on a new uranium mine, and it has always been categorically denied by the government that they would be involved in such an act, or that they would be government plans of this kind. Well, this Prime Minister's statement, on the other hand, underlines that the government is counting on this particular uranium mine, and, where appropriate, they are ready to hand over this mining opportunity, this mining right, the provision over the Hungarian uranium assets, where appropriate, to the Russians. We believe that this would be an amazing risk and an unacceptable risk for Pécs, so I will be working on it myself in the next period to explore these government plans and do everything we can to preserve the healthy environment for the interests of Pécs and our children. Thank you, Madam President.
u2023-02-27-347	Mr Ferenc Varga has also applied for a post- Agenda address, and is independent. I'll give you the floor in five minutes. Here you go.
u2023-02-27-348	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Ladies and gentlemen, Even though I've moved to a new place in Parliament's benches, my goal hasn't changed. As an independent Member, I also try to stand up for those you keep forgetting. Government representatives don't care about the people's misery, they don't care about how people live. Instead of dealing with the livelihood and social crisis, people are constantly viewed as fools, even though in addition to current food inflation, hundreds of thousands of families are forced to lack it, while they receive millions of forints for lunch on a flight. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I think it's time to say that you let the poor people's hands go. And who is poor in our country today? The factory worker, the social worker, the educator, the vast majority of those who can't support their families even with continuous work. [[1.50]] But it is no exception to public workers, pensioners, or disabled people, or even to their situation. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, You also released the hand of the Hungarian gypsy. In recent years, the Union's resources for catching up have been the largest beneficiary of your government and its people. You have done nothing out of thousands of billions of forints; these money has been stolen and stolen by you. But I'll keep going. Their policy, built around the whole Roma issue and catching up, is a big business and a huge scam to this day. However, while you do nothing about your extreme right marches and allow a political party to rise above the tax collector of racism and hatred, you are once again preparing to use the Hungarian gypsy in poverty in the local elections before us, just as you have done under the leadership of Flóri Farkas and Lungo Drom. Now that they're hiding Wolf from prison, they've given the child a new name, and they're practically repacking the same product and trying to sell it again to the Roma. Of course, we are also at fault because we are playing a fake representation system that has virtually no driver's license, and a lot of us are merging into your team, and in many cases, they even carry the Roma votes to you with each other in the back. Well, it also shows that your catch-up is basically based on nothing but easy voting, and you would be the saddest if it were a credible and real catch-up in this country, because then people would open their eyes and realize that it's actually you who lead them on. In the future, I will work on this: that we can start the representation on a morally and morally new basis; that we can ensure politically and professionally what you have not done in the past. But I want you to know that I'm not alone. There are more and more of us who stand up with the Honor for Gypsy Association against your system and go against all the soulless, exploitative and miserable policies they pursue. So we're waiting in our ranks for all civilians, organizations, associations, national governments who think alike. We look forward to those who want to put an end to the Roma-political contamination that is currently taking place in our country, because I believe that the future of our country will be greatly influenced not only by energy policy, education and health, but also by the success of catching up. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2023-02-27-349	Member Mrs Andrea Hegedüs, representative of DK, also came forward after the agenda. I'll give you the floor in five minutes, please.
u2023-02-27-350	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Dear House, Miskolc is a beautiful city with wonderful environmental qualities and amazing attractions. The Avas Hill with the viewer, the cave bath, the Bükk Mountains and its gems, Lillafüred and the waterfall with the palace hostel, the Hámori Lake, the historic downtown, the first Hungarian stone theatre, the Szinva spring and terrace. I now highlight one of the countless treasures of Miskolc, the water of our Bükk karst source for the city's water supply, which is of high quality at national level. I can safely say that the Miskolcs are lovers of clean drinking water. In order to keep it that way, MIVÍZ Kft. on the supply of drinking water in Miskolc. Take care of it. Most of the people who have worked there for many years have a strong passion for their work. They say they have water in their veins. They're worried, more and more, and not unwarranted. It is important to speak in all circumstances, even near two o'clock at night, in order to ensure the future functioning of MIVÍZ. As a result of under-financing and a high increase in energy prices, local government-owned waterworks are in difficulty. From 2013 only accounting tricks could show a minimum profit, and now the company is unfunded. The MIVÍZ, which was profitable before Fidesz's, can now only perform the most necessary tasks, life-saving troubleshooting, and fight windmills with the government's tax policy. Due to the reduction of the rent, the water supplier's wallet remains empty. You can't raise a fee, and the government won't replace the deficit. MIVÍZ Kft. also made use of the right to apply to the government. for its more efficient operation, but nothing happened. Water and sewage charges have been frozen and charges have been decided by ministerial authority by the Minister to announce them in a regulation. Nothing happened in this case either. As a result of these reductions, a 10 per cent reduction was required for retail users and a freeze on fees was imposed on non-resident users, but nothing was done in this case either. The situation is increasing, increasing, there is a serious shortage of resources, costs are increasing and revenues are falling. The combined impact on water and sewage prices has resulted in a serious economic crisis in the water utility sector over the past ten years. It's a crisis. The scale of scissors between costs and revenues has increased. The owner is Miskolc Holding Zrt. and the municipality of Miskolc responsible for the care will still ensure the missing costs for the day-to-day operation, but how long will they last? This year will further increase operating costs. Your solution is to pull down, force the municipal water supply into state property. What if it's not blackmail and violence? However, there would be a solution: abolish the utility tax; eliminate the official price; reduce the VAT rate; replace the losses due to these strangling restrictions and withdrawals. Public financial compensation is needed, i.e. capital replacement; the Renewal Fund supports municipal-owned waterworks. By the way, the state-owned people received a hundred billion HUF grant. The public has confidence in the poor relative, the municipality. The citizens' complaints are not coming in to the Serpents, the Archbishops. They're coming in to the local government. You know one solution to the problems of all sectors, nationalisation, but none of it has become a success course. Think carefully about this, in order to prevent the scandalous peacock dance that is also due to education, social networks, health care and foundation universities, and now the drinking water is at risk. MIVÍZ does not wish to be nationalized. The Miskolcs have the MIT. Thank you very much.
u2023-02-27-351	An independent Member, Mr. Peter, has applied for a post-meeting speech. I'll give you the floor in five minutes, please. [[2.00]]
u2023-02-27-352	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues! You campaigned before the elections by saying that Hungary is going forward, not backwards! Is that right? That's right, they won the election. After that, the Prime Minister went on the Kossuth radio, didn't he? He used to talk to himself for half an hour once a week, and he said that, as far as wages go, we can't go forward, we should be happy if we don't go back, and then he raised his own salary to double to HUF 5 million. But after this money is not enough for him, the salaries of both the Prime Minister and the members of the government and Members will be increased even further from March. Colleagues! Honestly, do you think that's fair? Do you think it is fair that while the Hungarian people are literally fighting a close fight to survive, politicians' salaries are being increased even further? Do you think that's fair? 'Cause I don't think it is. In these critical times, do you know what's fair? It's when we cry together, we laugh together. Well, precisely in this spirit, the People's Party Movement proposes that, until there is a new parliamentary election in Hungary, the salary of the Prime Minister, the members of the government and the Members of Parliament should not be higher than the minimum wage at any time. It is currently 154 thousand forints per month; to be many or few, everyone should judge for themselves. The MPs of the government are very proud that there are so many, so they can try to make a living with that much, but I would add that they can also try it, because what opposition is it that is perfectly aware that Fidesz has won the election with lies but does not want a new one? What opposition is it that takes the Fidesz for everything, but doesn't want to replace it? In 2026 we'll have time for that. Well, fellow Members, we are busy because the Hungarian people will be disabled in this system. We oppositionists constantly encourage the Hungarian people to make sacrifices for the change of government, we encourage teachers to do civil disobedience even if we know that they can be kicked out of their jobs, we encourage the workers to strike even if we know that they will be deducted from their salaries, we encourage the people to resist even if we know that people are playing with their jobs. And we oppositionists are not able to demand the dissolution of Parliament as one man and the launch of a new election because we fear for our seats? We expect sacrifice from the people, but we can't sacrifice for the people? We write on Facebook that we're with you, but we don't dare do any more because we're full of pants? Well, what kind of opposition is that, fellow Members? What kind of opposition is that? I'm telling you, living, that's the truth, respect for the exception. Prove me wrong, fellow Members. Prove it. I am not the only one who demands the dissolution of Parliament, not only in the People's Party, but everyone who claims to be opposition to this new election. If you can't even do that, you've got enough minimum wage here. Lose the wheel! Let the people win! Justice for the Hungarians!
u2023-02-27-353	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. this morning. Meeting day's closed.
