u2023-05-02-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 16th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear House, I am fulfilling my sad duty to announce that our fellow Member István Bajkai has passed away. István Bajkai, founding member and parliamentary representative of Fidesz first obtained parliamentary mandates from the National List of the Party in the 2018 elections and then in 2022. Under his mandate, he was a member of the Judicial Committee and Vice-President of the Legislative Committee. In addition to his national post, Budapest VI. was held for four years from 1990. Municipal representative in the district, later, from 2014 until 2018 Budapest VII. in the district of the municipality, or the deputy mayor of the district. In addition to his political activities, he practiced as a lawyer in his public life and professional work, and from 2019 until 2023 he was president of the Hungarian Fisting Association. He passed away in the 59th year of his life. Once again, I am fulfilling my sad duty to announce that three of our former fellow Members have passed away in the past. András Páris obtained his mandate in the 3rd constituency of Somogy County as the candidate of SZDSZ in the first free parliamentary elections after the change of regime, and for two cycles he was the party's parliamentary representative. Under his mandate, he assisted the work of the Defence Committee and the Environment Committee. Besides his political career, he worked as a lawyer. He lived 68 years. At the parliamentary elections in 1994, István Götzinger obtained a mandate from the party's regional list in Pest county as a candidate of the MSZP, and he was a member of the Parliament for a period of time. During his term of office, he assisted the Committee on Social and Health. He has been a member of the Pest County General Assembly for 12 years and of the 100halombatta Assembly for 16 years. He passed away 85 years of his life. Gyula Pásztor obtained his mandate in the 3rd constituency of Békés County as the individual candidate of the Independent Kisgazda Party in the 1990 elections, and he was a member of the Parliament for a period of time. Until 1992 he was in the parliamentary group of the Independent Small Farmers' Party and until 1994 in the United Small Farmers' Party. During his term of office, he was a member of the Committee on the Environment and the Affairs Committee, and he also served as a notary of the Parliament. In addition to his parliamentary mandate from 1994 to 2010, he was a municipal representative in Ibrány, and between 1998 and 2006 he was the deputy mayor of the settlement. He died in the 74th year of his life. I would ask you to pay tribute to the memory of our fellow Members with a silent standing. [[The people in this room stand up and pay tribute to the dead.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the LMP, Mr Lóránt Keresztes applied for a pre-meeting speech. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2023-05-02-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Allow me to begin by expressing our condolences on behalf of our group about the death of Member István Bajkai and the death of former Members of Parliament. Turning to my speech before the agenda: last Thursday, György Schadl resigned, President of the Faculty of Executives of the Court, and the full presidency of the Faculty. After György Schadl resigned from the government side, we can say that he has been protected with teeth and nails in recent years. We have had a lot of discussions in plenary over the past period, including at committee meetings, about how unworthy and unacceptable the situation is that such a person is fulfilling this important public-law position. So we can say that it is an important step, it is certainly a joyful step, that this has happened, and it is not only symbolic, so it is of particular importance that this has happened. At the same time, we cannot forget that we still have a lot to do, and there is a lot of work to be done by those responsible, in that they are trying to alleviate in some way the damage caused by the enforcement mafia, and it is a very, very important and urgent task to rethink and reformulate the whole system of implementation. It is very important that you finally give clear answers to the many questions that arise to all those whose lives have been ruined by corrupt enforcers over the past many years. We believe that the most important task is to create new legislation, so we do not think that we need to cosmeticise the laws, but we need to create a completely new legislative environment. It is very important for the Hungarian society to see clearly the involvement of politicians, so which politicians could be involved in, say, corrupt appointments of executives. It is also a clear and very, very important task that those who have been illegally stripped of their assets by corrupt executives can be compensated. Since there are many unanswered questions, I devote my speech before the agenda to asking these questions to the Secretary of State, confident that we can finally get substantive answers. During a debate, Mr Secretary of State admitted that the legislation was wrong. Why haven't you done anything to change this, Secretary of State? Not so long ago, during a question two weeks ago, Mr Secretary, you filed a complaint with me that I was asking too many questions. [[13.10]] Secretary of State, why don't you answer these questions? Why do you and Madam Secretary constantly deny the answers? There was not even an answer to the Minister's meeting with György Schadl. Why is there no clear answer to that question? ! Not so long ago Prime Minister Mr Toroczkai replied to your question that you were looking forward to improving proposals, and Mr Secretary of State told me in a debate last summer that the laws could be changed. We have been practically encouraged to submit proposals, but we have been voted down, and all proposals concerning the system of judicial enforcement are being rejected. Why is this happening, Mr. Secretary? We have repeatedly drawn attention to the fact that there are still a lot of problems with the legislative environment, and what is happening is in fact illegal. We know that the newly sworn executives must take an oath before the chairman of the executive faculty after a month, and it would obviously be symbolic, but it is not very lifelike, so obviously this did not happen, so we see these executives operating illegally. During the last debate, you suggested that if I saw this as illegal, I should turn to the Supervisory Authority for Regulatory Activities. I will do that, Mr. Secretary, because I consider this situation illegal. But why doesn't the Justice Department do it? What is perhaps the most important part of my question, Mr Secretary of State, is that you have tried a little bit of responsibility for the Ministry of Justice, and you said that it is not your job for the Ministry of Justice to have it on this issue. Well, a government decree of 2022 precisely defines the tasks and powers of the members of the government. It is for the Minister of Justice to propose legislation on the system of implementation, i.e. the motion for a legislative environment. You don't agree with that? If you don't think it's up to the Department of Justice to make proposals, then who do you think is responsible for this? When can we expect a new enforcement law to be passed? Who is responsible for this creation, and how will all the guarantees that have now been completely absent in this new law, and which have enabled corrupt executives to destroy the lives of thousands of Hungarian people, Hungarian families? Perhaps the most important part of your question is how and how compensation is made for those who have been clearly and demonstrably destroyed or deprived of their assets? Dear Secretary of State, I ask you to answer the questions you ask in substance, because you do not belong to me, but to all those whose lives have been interfered with by these executives, or who are currently fighting against corrupt executives, if any. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the lines of LMP, MSZP and Momentum.]]
u2023-05-02-2	Mr Robert Répássy, State Secretary, will answer. Here you go.
u2023-05-02-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We've always answered your questions on the merits. The fact that the Presidency of the Executive Board has resigned last week supports what we have always told you for information, namely that the leaders of the executive circle are elected by membership of the executive faculty, only they can decide to recall their President or to elect a new Presidency. Now that's gonna happen. According to the Act on Enforcement, one renewal will take place within 30 days. We trust that the executive faculty will elect officials who will ensure legal order, a legitimate legal order against executives. As regards the law on executive activity and the legal situation, I have mentioned to you several times, and you have just quoted that the law on judicial enforcement is, to be exact, 230. Paragraph 2 provides that supervision of the implementing body shall be exercised by the Supervisory Authority for Regulatory Activities. Since 1 October 2021, the Parliament has decided that this organisation, the Supervisory Authority for Regulatory Activities, has the right to take all measures relating to the legality of the operation of the executives. I would add that complaints concerning the functioning of the executives, the possible investigation of infringements of the operation of the executives and their activities, may not only be investigated by the Supervisory Authority for Regulated Activities, but also by the court, which is the President of the court competent for the seat of the executing court. If a person has this type of notification, he or she may do so by the President of the court in which the executioner has its seat, the President of the court in which the executioner has its seat may also initiate disciplinary proceedings if he or she is aware of such an infringement. Of course, everyone who comes into contact with implementation has the right to lodge an enforcement objection, so the form of appeal is the enforcement objection. This can be presented to the enforcement court. Therefore, if a person feels that his rights are not respected by the executioner, whether he is otherwise a debtor or a seeker of enforcement, both parties may make an enforcement objection to the court, since the claim that the executioner is collecting is in many cases a final judgment of the court, or a claim in another authentic instrument, such as a claim in a notary document. So it is very important for everyone to know that the executor can only make any claim on the basis of so-called enforceable documents. These enforceable documents come primarily from the court, secondly from notaries, and there may be other cases, but there is an appeal against them. What I would like to say about this is that the enforcement procedure was provided for by the Parliament Act in 1994. Since then, this enforcement law has been amended many times. Of course, we need to separate the rules for the implementing body and separate the rules for the implementation procedure and the implementation process. [[13.20]] A number of remedies are possible in the course of implementation. I am asking everyone not to believe those who claim that if the implementation organisation changes, the result will be that the debt will not have to be paid. I can't promise that, so everyone has to pay the debt. I would consider it a big mistake to make irresponsible political statements that make it seem that there is no obligation for debtors here, but merely to change the organisation of implementation and then to be exempt from debt. This can never be allowed in any rule of law! Think about the final judgments, such as child support charges, in which case we are always obliged to respect the final judgment and enforcement. At the same time, I believe that Parliament and the government will do everything in their power to keep the implementation in a legal, disciplined, fair way. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-02-4	András Jámbor is next, on behalf of the Dialogue. I give you the floor.
u2023-05-02-5	Thank you for the floor. Fourteen days, fellow Members, fourteen days that you, your police, have taken from an innocent man's life. For 14 days in advance, the Spark Movement activist, who last Thursday the police finally said he didn't commit the crime he was accused of. Not only did he say that there was not enough evidence, but the police listed in this decision what evidence he had looked at, which led him to conclude that he had not committed this crime. In the last two months, you have lied about the fact that me, the Szikra Movement, the Hungarian left has anything to do with these attacks. All of this was based on this one suspicion, and no other evidence was revealed. And obviously, if there were such evidence, it would have been the police, the investigating authorities, the secret services or anyone, even you would have brought it up. This woman's name has been desecrated. They've been through the entire county press, they've been in all their newspapers, they've posted his picture, and all of this by saying that he was completely innocent, what we knew, and you've been lying about it all along, and you obviously had to know it. The thing is, 72 hours ago, we know that it was a lie that you told us, and none of the news about it has been published in your media products. Not a single word has come out that they may have lied for the past two months, that for fourteen days, a man would have been innocently imprisoned. There was no news that there would be an apology in this case, and even the Hungarian police, which commented on this matter correctly, I think, in this case they forgot to issue a statement that the suspicion had been lifted. The fact is, my fellow Members, that you should at least apologize to this woman, who is sitting here, so that is what you have the opportunity to do. He was brave enough to come here to face your filth. It would be nice if you were brave enough to go and apologize to him after what you've done in the last two months. The thing is, while this woman was in prison for 14 days, for example, in the case of the executive mob, who weren't even interviewed as witnesses, while there's a little more evidence against them than, say, a like, a Facebook like, and a jacket I.D. that says that your police arrested this woman for fourteen days. The thing is, there's one other identity in these two cases, because you don't report any of them. It seems to you that the truth only means what is politically useful, which is in your power's interest, but the fact that innocent people are imprisoned and that innocent people in trouble are being looted doesn't fit in your world's image, even if it happens. But I'm sorry, I was wrong, because there's only one commentary on this case, Mr. Máté Kocsis has commented on the fact that he knows everything about me. The thing is, Congressman, if you know everything about me, you obviously know that you've been lying for the last two months, because if for some mysterious reason, say, you've been listening to me, or in any other way you know everything about me, you should have known that you've been lying for the last two months. But I know everything about myself, not surprisingly, which is exactly why I can tell you that you can tell the public anything you know about me. But it would be good if he didn't respond with a threat that an innocent man had been imprisoned for fourteen days and didn't respond with a threat that they lied about it for two months, but apologized because it would be the basis of elementary integrity. Ladies and gentlemen, The thing is, for two weeks, your police put a man in jail, completely innocent. It's a pretty serious situation, I think, and all of this by building a political campaign after that. By the way, Máté Kocsis held many press conferences, and he also said that me and my associates had committed acts of violence. I could quote one of these, for example, with tape, that's what Máté Kocsis referred to at his press conference we glued to the Fidesz office. I would like this to be the most violent act in Hungary. There's one thing I have to tell you. I am very sorry for those who have been abused on the streets of Budapest in these few days, and I am very sorry for those who have been abused, and I hope that this will never happen again, and Hungarian secret services will also take care of this. I have one more request for the Secretary of State to answer; I do not know which one of you - not to be round, not to be in line, but to stand up and apologize. Thank you. [[Applause in the lines of Dialogue, MSZP, DK and LMP.]]
u2023-05-02-6	Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer. Here you go.
u2023-05-02-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I just took a look at your website called Mérce, a newspaper you edited earlier, where you were editor-in-chief, and I hit it fast and fast that it was Antifa. What do your spiritual offspring, to whom you'll probably return, write about the Antifa? We are being attacked by the Hungarian national right who is causing an antifa panic. Interview with one of the Antifa organizers, trying to get them on high pedestals, attacking journalists on Antifa actions, that sort of thing and the like. Honourable Congressman, You have been doing nothing more than at this moment, in this one case, but for years, and you, András Jámbor, are one of the flagmen of this Parliament, trying to make this Antifa movement possible in Hungary. We've had our argument over the last few weeks with you and Congressman Torda. We were arguing with politicians, and we weren't trying to take over the police's work. They're doing their job, but what you've been doing for years is trying to show that the Antifa movement is an eligible, viable movement, while doing unsuitable acts, well, this scandal, honourable Member, is the responsibility of politicians. And they do that in newspapers, and then they do it by making these people either you or others, but they invite you here, and they're trying to create an environment that makes you feel comfortable. [[András Jámbor: Evidence!]] And you will be outraged after this, and you will call us for an apology. Honourable Congressman, Check out your own newspapers, your own political groupmates, what they say about this Antifa, while beating people half to death in Hungary. They go out into the street, and they're suspicious of the way they dress, they're attacked from behind without question, they hit their knees, they're forced to put a hat on their own head, of course, so they don't get recognized, beat with vipers, sticks and iron sticks in broad daylight on the street, and then sprayed with pepper spray, so they don't see anything from the perpetrators. And you write these cheerful articles about him, and they say that the antifa panic on the right has never occurred in Hungary, so that people on the street in broad daylight like this, are surrounded, dominated and beaten. And as I say, sometimes even witnesses are called off with pepper spray. And you're the builders of everything. You say that this is a moody, a more radical left-wing movement, of course, but as a young person, everyone is radical, and radicalism can fit into the left. But this is street violence, Your Honour. You should have stood up to tell us that these articles, these directions were completely wrong, and the Antifa movement has no place in Hungary. All you do is save the Antifa movement. 'Cause when left-wingers hit random people on the street, it's okay for you. Looks like the left is part of street violence. Of course, you are also part of the violence in government institutions, as you also committed violence here in Kossuth Square a few years ago when you tried to break into this building. But violence was committed at the State Audit Office, the Election Office, climbing the first floor of my former workplace, the EMMI, climbing through the window, committing violence now at the Carmelite Monastery, because violence is acceptable for your political purposes. As Karl Marx wrote a century and a half ago, the left can use violence. But it is unacceptable for us to have 15 people attacked completely innocently on the Hungarian streets and beaten with vipers or anything from Fővám tér to the Buda districts. [[13.30]] Honourable Congressman, That's what you should do, reject violence. There is Ferenc Gyurcsány, who on one of the victims of his own violence, to whom half his eyes were shot, then laughed and tried to make him a mockery. First of all, you shouldn't practice violence, then apologize to those who are victims of this, and you should call on everyone not to do so. And you do not defend those who come from abroad, from Germany and Italy, we do not need this. Thank God in Hungary there are peaceful relations [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] Hungary is the 13th safest country in the world, because both the Guardians and the far-right and far-left violence have been reduced from the streets. [[Interviews from Jobbik, MSZP and Dialogue.]] And we're not gonna let you guys do this violence. [[A statement from the opposition. The president's ringing the bell.]] bring it back, either against individuals or in other areas, and make it a part of politics or a part of political expression. 'Cause this is where we have the most heated debate, and we can put all kinds of crap on each other's heads, but it's a regulated political environment. [[A statement from the opposition.]] But what Antifa activists or members of a terrorist organization did to beat up people, think about it. Anyone in any dress can go out on the street and be afraid to get beat up by antifa activists like that? [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I thank the Hungarian police for acting against this, and we continue to have a debate with you, because you support these antifas politically instead of helping us push them out of the country. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Imre András Jámbor: Shame on you! Zoltán Vajda intervenes.]]
u2023-05-02-8	If they've calmed down... [[András Imre Jámbor intervenes.]] Congressman, please. I didn't give you the floor. I've given you the floor, but your time is up, and you've told me what you have to say. Now, please, listen to everyone else's speeches. This also applies to your fellow Members. László Toroczkai, leader of the Hungarian faction. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-05-02-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, It's past May, it's May, and the eviction moratorium expired on April 30th. We prepared for this in time, and on behalf of the Group of the Hungarian Movement, at the beginning of April, I submitted a proposal for a resolution which we hope will be decided at some point in May, at least the committee will take it into consideration, and this is about pushing this eviction moratorium for a minimum of one year, which is until 30 April 2024, to amend the law currently in force, and I will give you the reasons why we consider this to be very important and justified. But in 2020, when politics, referring to Covid, created a kind of economic crisis and an artificial economic crisis here in Hungary, the government decided to break the law that has been customary for years on the grounds of emergency and to say that the eviction moratorium was not valid that year, i.e. in 2020 referring to Covidra. Regardless of our disagreement with the artificial economic crisis created by politics, we welcomed this at the time, but we do not understand that now, in 2023, when there is a more serious economic crisis in Hungary than during the Covid period, then why the government does not do so, why the government insists that from 30 April the Hungarians who have many families with small children, are elderly, there are those who have worked their whole lives honestly, but most of them have fallen into a series of frauds called foreign exchange-based lending, they have become victims of it. In the past 13 years, the Fidesz government has not solved the problem of foreign exchange lending, which has been rolled up and promoted under the Gyurcsány government of left-wing or Balliberal governments. And it shows very well how the Fidesz government has not solved the fact that it can now affect thousands of Hungarians, or even thousands of families, this eviction can affect them. In 2022, last year we saw that the eviction was at a huge pace because it had previously been suspended by the government, referring to Covid. Who will again benefit enormously from the misery of Hungarians? The same executives and the related Mafia system, whose history we indicated a few years ago and tried to uncover, now the whole country knows about this mafia network, and while the Prime Minister said to me the last time here in Parliament that it was a shame to call a whole profession a mob or a mob; I did not, for example, name every single member of the notary profession, so every notary is a mafia, but the fact that certain notaries have cooperated with the executives who are now clearly a mafia is quite clear; as well as that politics, so you created this situation, you have the key to the solution in your hands. And even though we asked for it for more than a year and a half, despite the fact that we have asked for it since the arrest of György Schadl, that at least the chairmanship of the executive faculty be expelled, this has only just happened, and it is clearly under the pressure of the government, because it cannot be a coincidence that when Tamás Lukács resigns, the government will immediately take action and change the rule that from now on someone who is subject to criminal proceedings should not be president of the executive faculty. The government could have done this much sooner, but it didn't. How serious the situation is and how much nothing has changed with the Mafia executive faculty, it is very well shown by the letter that came into the possession of the Mi Hazan Movement and which Tamás Lukács has written to his executive colleagues on 28 April exactly, who has actually exercised the power of president instead of György Schadl, so let me note that it was the Mi Hazank Movement that made public the recording, which revealed that Tamás Lukács was there with György Schadl when they were waiting for their owner, so it is obvious that he was part of this mob organization. In this letter, he writes to his colleagues that although his office as a member of the Presidency has been terminated, of course the relationship so far remains between them, it is a very striking sentence, and that among his greatest merits he has mentioned in the last year that he has managed to increase the benefits of the executives. So the organization where executioners can work for a profit of up to 600 million forints will continue to work, and they will benefit from evictions now. Therefore, we ask that the moratorium on eviction continue to be extended. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-05-02-10	Once again, I give the floor to Secretary Robert Répássy.
u2023-05-02-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, I believe that I must say once again that the criticism of the enforcement organisation and the separation of enforcement, judicial enforcement as a necessary act closing court proceedings are justified, so without judicial enforcement there is no justice, no rule of law, judicial enforcement is necessary for everyone who has decided to have a legitimate claim to obtain their claim. So I propose a very important distinction, and I just suggest that you, too, distinguish between legitimate, justified and fair enforcement and distinguish between illegal practices. Of course, any unlawful conduct must be combated, and in all cases, whether it is an enforcer or an enforcer, whether it is an infringement of the law in connection with enforcement, in all cases legal proceedings must be ensured, the law applies to everyone, whether it be the enforcer or the debtor, whether it be the enforcement seeker or the law applies to everyone. I think we should look at this matter here, in Parliament, on this common ground. As far as the enforcement body is concerned, I have just said to a speech that the supervision of the enforcement body is carried out by a public authority independent of the government, and, of course, it is more important that the court itself decides on the applications for infringement of the law, the court decides on the objections or any complaints concerning the legality of the enforcement. Therefore, the policy cannot remove the legality of the executioner's activities from the court, only the court is competent to rule on a particular case, in an enforcement case, in the execution of a claim or not, but only the court is entitled to rule on that. If you have criticism of the enforcement organisation, of course as a Member of Parliament, as the Prime Minister has referred to, you have the right to initiate a law and you have the right to initiate a change of enforcement laws. [[13.40]] But I would also like to point out that it is not necessary to create an appearance that, if the implementing body changes, the procedural rules will change, then the debtors will not have to repay the debt. There's no such thing. You can't make it look like that. I would very much ask you not to criticise legal enforcement, always distinguish between legal conduct, legal enforcement procedures and possible violations of law. Yes, there were indeed violations of law, we never claimed that everything about the executive organization was legal and that all their proceedings were legal. I would like to assure you that in Parliament's Legislative Committee, pro-government representatives have just tabled amendments that further tighten the disciplinary liability of executives. I ask you to support these proposals. There is obviously a need to give way to legal enforcement procedures, since those seeking enforcement, among whom there are primarily private individuals, because, in contrast to tax enforcement, the implementation of the National Tax and Customs Office, judicial enforcement implements private claims, private debts, and these creditors, these enforcement seekers, are private individuals, their private debts are collected by executives. Now, of course, I included business and corporate debts, but in any case, it is not the state's claim that the bailiffs are collecting, but the private sector's demands. Therefore, if a claim is legal, a debt is legal, then it must be carried out if it is not done voluntarily, because in any case the bailiffs act only after voluntary performance is not performed. And indeed, the strictest disciplinary and professional requirements should be imposed on the bailiffs, and only legal proceedings and legal conduct are acceptable to them. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-05-02-12	Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, also applied for a speech before the agenda. I give you the floor.
u2023-05-02-13	Mr President, Dear House, There is a debate between us and the government side for more than a decade, and this typically revolves around the wage situation of Hungarian workers, where, at the time of a very, very low wage level, the SAO of all time says that, but look at the extent to which the minimum wage has risen, and, opposition representatives, ladies and gentlemen, look at the statistics on what explosion-like increase can be shown on the front of the minimum wage. And we have every right to say that a very low base should, of course, be pleased with all the increases, but we can see that, with such brutal inflation, this is characteristic of many countries in Europe, as the minimum wage rises, even if the purchasing power is reduced or even compensated. If we look at the wages of Hungarians on average, we can find an extremely low value at European level, and the biggest problem is that real wages are now falling, so the value that the citizen can buy from his salary is shrinking and losing constantly. The fact is that Hungary has never been at the forefront of the EU wage issue, and we see that we feel that the government has become a conscious strategy to keep the wage level low. This was also recognised earlier when we saw that this government did not really provide a counterweight to the emigration of well-trained and higher Hungarians, typically seeking higher salaries, even though it knew in advance when the Austrian, when the German labour market would open, it knew in advance what an exhaust effect it would encounter, and they also knew, let's say, how much Hungarian labour force would flow out to Britain. On the other hand, there was no provision for a housing or wage Union programme. In the other direction, however, the product of recent years is not so useful as to bring hundreds of thousands of migrant workers to the Hungarian market and to the Hungarian economy. The first 100,000 quota has already essentially arrived, and it is expected to continue to be replaced. We can see that this is best suited to break the wage level and to force unrealistically bad working conditions for Hungarians working here as well. So what we're seeing is that we're definitely not going any further. Those who want to earn better leave their homeland in many cases forced to leave and do not thrive here, which is demographic and, in all other respects, catastrophic for Hungary. That's when we brought in our wage union concept, where instead of giving a meaningful response to government representatives, they immediately began to say that it was good, good, but you want the Hungarian vegetable in the Grand Hall to earn the same amount as his Dutch colleague. We also said that this was not the case, that there was no way to conclude or raise wages in a commandful manner, but we also see that in at least three areas this government would have had the opportunity to move towards the settlement of the Hungarian wage level. Obviously, the first of these is their strategic agreements with multi-company companies. We've been through all of this. Correct: we have not found such a requirement to at least raise Hungarian wages in a fair manner allowed by productivity, not to the Western European standard, towards a European average. The hardest part is that the community of Jobbik-Conservatives examines this issue regularly, and the countries of the region also have either distanced from their salaries, not to mention the Austrian, or a locality, and it is indeed the unworthy situation that we have to measure Hungarian to the Bulgarian and Romanian minimum wage, and we are often either in the last or the last place before the last. So the question arises with regard to strategic agreements with multinationals: has the government opened up to at least the fair approximation of Hungarian wages to the Western average and the European average in a way permitted by productivity? Then there is the sector, the sector of Hungarian micro-, small and medium-sized enterprises, where it is undoubtedly impossible to say that next year the wages should be one-and-a-half times higher, because the Hungarian entrepreneur is absolutely right to say that yes, but what he will produce it from. Therefore, the current government would do the right thing in one way: if, instead of freezing resources, the resources released once towards Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises would be grouped into a fund from which wages can be developed and systemicly possible. The question is, how did the government open it? But there's a third area where you guys do, but you couldn't, you shouldn't point a finger at anyone: the third big area is the state, the public sphere. Here, the government could start a fair approximation of wages and not just the minimum wage, average wages, to at least one European average without any barriers. Of course, in such cases it may not be so strong as a national government to point out foreign and external influences, but the question arises that at least one of the three directions is willing, is willing to move towards one of them, or is still conscious of its strategy to keep the wages of Hungarian people low. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2023-05-02-14	I respectfully ask who wants to answer on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State János Fónagy, please.
u2023-05-02-15	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, You mention an issue the current governing parties have practically kept on the agenda since their first government in 1998. I guess I'm not going to say anything new to this House or to you that our attitude is basically a work-based society, so basically our thinking, if you like, is that we have to give everyone jobs, we have to earn a living on a job, and this income should be a decent living for those who work. Of course, jobs need to be created first. Since 2010, the government has been making significant efforts to encourage employment and raise wages. I would ask that, in addition to discussing wage increases, the Member should consider that wages, let me say, are at one end of the stick and at the other end there are taxes, discounts, overhead, so that is all that is needed to make a daily living. The government has the possibility to raise wages directly in the public sector, in addition to the minimum wage, which you acknowledged in your contribution. In the competitive sector, outside the labour market, the social partners' agreements and collective bargaining affect average wage levels. Since 2010, labour taxes have been constantly falling, comprehensive wage-raising programmes have been launched in the public sector, businesses have been helped by the government to raise wages by tax cuts, and in the current situation, jobs and wages are being kept. [[13.50]] I would just like to remind Mr President that, for the first time in the years following 2012, multiannual wage agreements were established in the public sector, which in all cases have increased the wages of hundreds of thousands of Hungarian workers rather than increasing them, but have sometimes made them predictable for three years in advance. The increase in gross average earnings reached 154.7 percent from 2010 to 2022, while net average earnings increased by nearly 160 percent without taking into account family benefits and by 168 percent. The increase in real earnings has been steady since 13. Including 2022, if we look at the total annual data rather than monthly data alone, real earnings have been increasing significantly for years, which means that the nominal value of growth has exceeded inflation, so that workers can buy more goods from their income. The rise in real earnings without discounts was 71 percent, with discounts set at more than 77 percent over the last 12 years. In terms of monthly data, inflation has been higher than average earnings for months. The acceleration of inflation has been caused and caused by several factors, such as the virus and its consequences, the war situation, the very drought period, which has resulted in an acceleration of inflation, especially in relation to food. The government intends and aims to reduce inflation to one digit by the end of the year. In the meantime, the dynamic rise in actions continues in 23rd. The rapid rise in recent years has also encouraged the return of foreign workers, with a higher number of returnees than outbounds in recent years, but a significant proportion of outside workers perceive that the work and performance that they are temporarily required as migrant workers cannot be carried out in a life-long way. So I am convinced that, in spite of all the difficulties and difficulties in Hungary, wages have increased steadily. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-02-16	On behalf of the MSZP, Imre Komjathi asked for the floor before the agenda. Here you go.
u2023-05-02-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Serving in the Hungarian Parliament is a noble task. Here, in this beautiful Parliament, which is a symbol of Hungarianism, it is an uplifting feeling to work, even if sometimes the debate takes place in the wrong style. At the same time, it is important to clarify that this building and the institution are not for themselves. It is for the main representative body to represent the interests of people and workers. That is why, as a Member of Parliament, I am very saddened to see indifference, incompetence and indifference sitting on the faces of my fellow members of government when I am talking about the problems of working people; the fate of people who work hard, but their salary is not enough to create decent living conditions for their families, because the goods they seek are only enough to survive. Decentness, diligence and devotion as workers in Hungary today are no longer enough for a worker to thrive in life. One salary is no longer enough to maintain a family. The fate of these families and the lack of prospects for these life situations are seen indifferently by you, and yet they dare to call themselves a family-friendly government without blushing. Ladies and gentlemen, I recently said in a speech that we want a country where the worker cannot be eviscerated. I truly believe that change would be a matter of will in many respects, which would make Hungary a more livable place to live, a country where children can receive quality education and succeed in the course of life to which fate or God has called them; a country where parents can go home to their families after a decent day of work, and not to suffer the anxiety of living, but to enjoy the free time with their loved ones in a self-forget and decent way; a country where grandparents can enjoy the fruits of a life's work and enjoy seeing their grandchildren grow up. Dear Parliament, The workers, the working people, produce GDP, it's their job to move this country forward. Ladies and gentlemen, They produce both your salary and ours, but they don't get enough respect and respect from you because you don't live to work, but work to live, to live better. A few days ago, at my former workplace, I was talking about those who died in an accident at work and were injured in the celebration of what we were celebrating on May 1st. And this is our chance to discuss what you can do for the community, what you can do for the workers. I can sum up my answer in one word: security. Workers need physical security, financial security, and social protection, but we see that NER and capitalism have found their way together in exploitation. Today, a large part of the profit is being saved in the direct physical security of workers, and if there is work, the question is that it has a price and what is the wage enough for. Ladies and gentlemen, One thing is certain: the shoulders of people are heavy in Hungary. For this reason, the MSZP announced the household rescue package and its five points. First of all, a debtor'stop, abolish the extra VAT on food and VAT on basic foods. Secondly, a price stop, keep the discount price for the eight foods as long as the VAT and the special tax remain. Third, let's all eat. Give food bank cards to the most deprived 300,000 families worth 20,000 forints a month so that no one will starve in our country. Fourth, decent pensions! We therefore propose that pensions be raised by 5 percent from June onwards. And finally, support for the convenience stores! Let's give targeted support to domestic-owned convenience stores so that pre-products under the price stop can be accessed everywhere. Ladies and gentlemen, This country is carried forward by workers and workers, but they are often in a vulnerable situation. I quote an old classic: don't let the rabbit take the shotgun or the button push the congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This time, I hope you'll finally find some understanding of what I've been saying. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2023-05-02-18	I give the floor to Secretary Csaba Dömötör.
u2023-05-02-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In relation to his suggestion that the debates are not in the right style here in Parliament, allow me to ask whether he was thinking of his fellow party members or expressed a general criticism. This is a legitimate question because it is not from us that we have been able to try to prevent the sitting, the sitting, not from boycotting the seats, as in your benches this is a standard practice, but that may not be the most important issue here. The government wants to value those who live on wages and salaries in every possible way, and they want to move forward with work in their lives. We want everyone who wants and can work to have a job. And it is not just a general effort, it is not just a general goal, but an intention that has already shown its practical results under current governance. If I recall correctly, you were not a Member when this government started its work, but when this government started its work, there was almost 12 percent unemployment in Hungary, Twelve! Therefore, it was no exaggeration to say that it was more worth living on welfare than on work. Through many, many measures and thanks to the hard work and will of the people who live on wages and salaries, this percentage has fallen to less than 4 percent since then, and while we have faced epidemics and war in recent years, it has been close to a record level ever since. On the other hand, you often hear from your benches that the government makes Hungary a assembly plant. [[14.00]] Now, such ratings are not about the appreciation of those who strengthen this country with their work in three shifts, two or three shifts, and also contribute to the strengthening of the Hungarian economy. As far as other circumstances are concerned, I agree that the issue of the livelihood of Hungarians and people living from work should be put on the agenda here in Parliament from time to time. There are three things worth talking about: what are the international economic conditions, what are the indicators of the Hungarian economy, and what are the government doing? That's a fair question. As far as international circumstances are concerned, the fact is that it is denied in vain, but the war has the effect and the wrong answers, the wrong answers in Brussels. These result in an increase in energy prices only this year with a margin reduction of HUF 4000 billion. It'd be nice to spend it on someone else. It'd be nice to spend it on raises, hospitals, schools. We'd like to spend more on this. This is why it is a significant achievement that the Hungarian economy was able to grow even in these circumstances, even in the war year, and therefore it is a significant result that employment indicators are better than the EU average and are still close to a record. At these times, in these months, we can say that as many people have never worked in Hungary since the change of regime as they are now. And as far as wages are concerned, I also think it is a result that if we look at inflation and look at the rise in gross wages, then the rise in wages is above inflation, so in such an extraordinary situation, we managed to achieve in 2022 that inflation is above the rise in gross wages. [[Bence of Turda: There's a 20-percent real wage drop.]] , so we have still managed to achieve a real wage increase. Dear Congressman of Turda, If you have yelled, I would like to say that the left-wing government has not been able to show the same real wage rise when it comes to dealing with a financial crisis; which is no wonder, since they were thinking only of austerity. And what does the government do? It introduces pricestops, we maintain the premium, we maintain the interest rate stop, we raised the minimum wage, we didn't reduce it, we started a factory rescue program, and what's just as important is that we keep taxes, corporate tax and personal income tax low in all possible ways. Now, as far as your specific proposals are concerned, you mentioned a debtor'stop. Well, please, look at the left-wing election programs. It's about a corporate tax increase, a personal income tax increase. As far as the price stops are concerned, you just mentioned that. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] : Well, it was your ally who called the pricestops stupid, and now they're making suggestions. Well, find a way to figure this out. On the issue of pensions, we remember left-wing practice: a month's pension away! [[Agnes Kunhalmi: He hasn't been for 12 years.]] Take away, Congresswoman Kunhalmi.
u2023-05-02-20	Would you be quiet, please?
u2023-05-02-21	This was the government that gave back, yes, your 13th month's pension, so from January, the pension increase that you did not provide, but this government also applies. This means that if we were to follow your recipe, we would have higher unemployment, lower salaries, I think we should not try this either during the war or after. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-02-22	I would ask some of our opposition fellow Members to comply at least with the rules of conduct that can be expected in a lower school and even in a large group of kindergartens. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I've already graduated from a university.]] Now we're going to hear from Congressman Endre Tóth.
u2023-05-02-23	Thank you very much for the floor. There was a man with a moustache who led the Soviet Union with the merciless slogan that there was no man, no problem, and under his rule millions suffered from his power madness. There is also a man with a moustache in Hungary, an ex-police who leads the education, in his heart there is also mercilessness; there is no teacher, there is no problem, this could be his motto. Because what other reason could there be for Sándor Pintér's facial muscles not to wobble when nearly 5,000 teachers deposit their resignations? As if that was the minister's goal: let the renants leave, let the disgruntled ones leave. They remind him of what they learned at the police college: they need to raise the voices out of the crowd, and then the police can control the situation. But I beg you, the education is not a mass dispersal, our schools are not barracks, and the teachers are definitely not a raging mob! They could be negotiated if the government wanted to, but for a year and a half, they've been playing negotiations, and they don't give a damn about the teachers' demands. And when they've sunk domestic education into a total lack of hope, when everyone thinks it can't get any lower than that, they're gonna bring in the real blow and they're gonna work out the Vengeance Act. In the past year and a half, they have been eager to avenge teachers who have protested the humiliation of their profession, and with them, they would also bring down parents who are concerned about the future of their children and students who stand up for more modern education. When the number of teachers leaving public school increases 42 percent in one year, that was exactly what was needed, just to make all the working conditions of teachers worse by the government. Do you know what happens to an employer who, when his employees are dissatisfied, only makes their working conditions worse? You're gonna be alone in your office, you're gonna have to leave everyone behind, and you're gonna have to run the store by yourself. Dear members of the Government. Are you ready to go in there and teach instead of 5,000 teachers standing up for the Vengeance Act? If not, who will work for them? 'Cause some of those fresh graduates who come out of college every year aren't enough to make up for their retirement, let alone compensate for your rampage. And, you know, 5,000 quitters aren't just theoretical statistics, they're flesh and blood people you're about to break down your life's work. Let me read the lines of one of you, Ildikó Kenderesi, who recently announced that after 20 years of teaching, he would leave his beloved profession. The decision was born in me as a result of a long struggle. I really like teaching, I always imagined that I would retire from this school, that was the plan. I've tried everything humanly possible to draw attention to the thousands of problems in education. I have no other means in my hand than to resign. One minus for public education, that's what I can do. After briefing Pintér, I felt that I couldn't stay any longer, and the draft status law just confirmed my decision. This is harmful to all actors in education at all points of the draft. If nothing were to come of it, I wouldn't be able to stay, because his idea alone is outrageous and unacceptable. Teachers who leave their careers will never forget what they do to them. But the Vengeance Act will also be remembered by teachers who will remain in education, but will be forced to replace the classes of their resigning colleagues. And they'll remember the students who are losing their homeroom teacher, their favorite teacher. But they don't forget the parents, who are forced to spend more and more on private teachers, because you drive teachers off the field. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Is that the kind of memory you want to leave in people? If not, then release the petty revenge and start working on honoring the teaching field. I hear that even the responsible Secretary of State would like to drop this law, but Viktor Orbán insists on it personally. Well, please decide, please, fellow pro-government Members, that you are serving the interests of the Hungarian people here in Parliament, or the footmen of Viktor Orbán, who are ready to serve the revengeful nature of the Prime Minister and his police minister at any time. The decision is up to you, and the fate of 5,000 Hungarian teachers depends on it. And the Hungarian people will remember what they decided. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition.]]
u2023-05-02-24	In response, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2023-05-02-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, András Fekete-Győr added his attitude to Hungarian teachers and Hungarian schools in a single sentence: we have an immense number of schools and the quality of them is very poor. This was the work of all Hungarian schools, all Hungarian teachers, teachers and educators, that they were simply said to be Ramaty. It is not that you have been raised, that you have graduated from your schools, that some of you have even obtained a degree, not that it is a fine profession to be a teacher, because the future generation can be formed and helped, not how many children have been helped to develop their talents, not how many children have been helped to achieve the performance that they can bring out of themselves, but what you have said is that it is a romaty. And since when do you have an elected position, what do you do about Hungarian education? Ferenc Gyurcsány told us this, said Csaba Molnár: you are dealing with the fact that one euro is not coming from Brussels to raise Hungarian teachers' wages, but one forint. That's why you're taking their million-dollar salary in Brussels. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] So that we can't raise the wages of Hungarian teachers. If today's source had arrived, which was a long time ago for the Hungarian people, then from tomorrow all Hungarian teachers would earn 561 thousand HUF on average. [[14.10]] In fact, not from tomorrow, but until 1 January, you would receive the difference between the increased salary and the actual payment received, so you would get the difference between January-February-March-April and so the increased salary. From 1 January next year, you will receive an average of 681 thousand forints, and from 2025 you will receive an average of 800 thousand forints. That's the proposal you're attacking. This is something on which you are not only secretly speaking, as Ferenc Gyurcsány said that there is no need to keep this secret, it can be said honestly, he also said, his shadow minister said, and the politicians of Momentum also told us how Hungarian law, the Hungarian government, is being attacked for LGBT and other reasons. That's what you're working for. You could have admitted it here, too, Mr honourable Member, but you shamelessly neglected this topic, that your MEPs are working today and tomorrow to ensure that no Hungarian educator can increase his salary from the HUF 800 billion that we from EU funds intend to raise his teacher's wages. There is no such construction in Hungary or in the European Union as we know, which would spend such a large amount of HUF 800 billion for one purpose! And we made the legislation so that it goes backwards for teachers, that although the left now seems to be a public obstacle to this teacher's wage increase, but even if it does happen later, teachers should have their increased money from 1 January 2023. [[Gergely Harvester: Here's the money! You should give it to me.]] You're doing something about it. I can't understand what makes a Hungarian politician work against the biggest 75 percent increase in teacher wages of all time; because he doesn't want to tolerate it neutrally, we may have seen it. But that someone is working to prevent teachers from raising their wages, and actually proud of it on the radio and holding a press conference about it, does it say on Facebook that I am working on you so that the wages of Hungarian teachers don't rise? ! [[There's a riot in DK's benches.]] Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, How can you... [[Crying from the benches of DK: No, it's not true! That's not true. Dr. Agnes Vadai: You're lying!]]
u2023-05-02-26	Calm down, Mr. Harvester. Calm down!
u2023-05-02-27	How can you even look a teacher in the eye? ! How can they look into the eyes of a single educator to discuss with their fellow Members of the European Parliament in order not to raise the wages of Hungarian teachers! You say there are no negotiations. Honourable Congressman, On 2 March, we published our bill on the pedagogical career, and since then nothing else has happened but continuous discussions, since we discussed with the unions on the 1st day before we went public about the speed at which we will negotiate with them. Today, too, there is consultation on 2 May, and there have been 7-8 other discussions between the two, in the National Public Education Council, in the National Strategy Round Table on Public Education, everywhere and only this proposal that will help all Hungarian parents, all Hungarian students, that teachers who deal more with their children more intensively, more conscientiously, earn more; earn more than the average; and those teachers who are proud of, who really put their hearts and hearts into working for Hungarian children, teaching for Hungarian children, not only increase their salary on average, but also earn hundreds of thousands more than the other teachers, take more home, because it is in the interest of Hungarian children. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-02-28	The moment has now come for one of the representatives of the Democratic Coalition to speak. This is Congresswoman Kálmán Olga. Here you go.
u2023-05-02-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hungary lost one of its important values: István Vágó died unexpectedly. For years there was the most popular television personality elected by the viewers, and then he made a personal decision that he knew was going to launch a series of attacks. István Vácsó's death was not only shocking because of his suddenness and unexpectedness; he was one of the few who sacrificed his exceptionally successful professional career to represent the cause of Hungarian democracy. His knowledge, diligence, wisdom, and almost unparalleled knowledge of the language brought him to the highest level of Hungarian television. He could have sat on his well-deserved laurels, but that's not what he did. From the change of regime, he openly agreed to be liberal, even if all those who once called themselves liberal have since refused their earlier principles. He did not hide his support for the Alliance of Free Democrats when it became less and less popular. He was also aware that if he joined the Democratic Coalition, he would get his own from everywhere. He joined DK, even though he knew it would put an end to his TV career. Its values, patriotism, freedom of democracy, solidarity and representation of human rights became the most important thing for him. Thus became the second home of the Democratic Coalition community, its united political family. He was open and tolerant, someone to argue with. He argued, argued, fought for the truth, looked at and read everything, and often even what he might not have done, but he watched and read. He died of slander, all the lies, but he reacted and fought for the truth. Well, it was amazing what they did to him. He was accused of everything, undeserving, unjust, despicable, mischievous. There were vile people who couldn't leave him alone even in his death; who couldn't forgive him in his death for not agreeing with them, for thinking otherwise about Europe, Hungary, humanism, love, and others. Some people can't stand the fact that there are people of value who have a system of views, a world view, and a human standing that can't be bought and blackmailed. István Cutter was such a man. The Democratic Coalition community is appalled by István Vágó. We lost a friend, a comrade. He always said it was an honor for him to be a member of DK, but, well, it really was an honor for us, and it was an honor for us to have such a skilled, educated, decent Democrat strengthen the Democratic Coalition as a member of the presidency, as a municipal representative, and, well, as a friend. István Cutter leaves an irreplaceable void. His personality, sense of humor, his voice, his whole being belonged to the Hungary of the past decades. I thought it was important, and we thought it was important for this to be said in the House of the country, and for it to be included in the minutes of the Parliament. Well, Pista, we love you. Rest in peace. Your memory will be preserved.
u2023-05-02-30	I'm asking if anyone would like to respond on behalf of the government. [[Csaba Dömötör reporting.]] Well, if you must, I'll give the floor to Mr. Csaba Dömötör, please.
u2023-05-02-31	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Allow me to react briefly: with the death of István Vágó, a dominant player of Hungarian television has left. We do not need to be on the same political side to pay our respects to the memory of a deceased, and on the other hand, I find it unworthy to link the death of István Vácsó and the days of mourning in any way with our daily political debates. Therefore, allow me not to respond to political arguments now, not now. There'll be another chance. Instead, I would like to say one thing: we are very sorry for the death of István Vágó. God rest his soul. May he rest in peace. Thank you for your attention.
u2023-05-02-32	István Simicskó, the head of the KDNP faction, also applied for a speech before the agenda. I give the floor to the leader of the group.
u2023-05-02-33	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Since February 24, 2022, this sad sister war has been going on in our neighborhood. The press reports start almost every day with the same upheaval: fighting continues in Ukraine: air strikes, missile crashes, artillery attacks, battle drones, death victims, increasing violence. And today we are also hearing that another large shipment of weapons, hundreds of tanks, ammo, armored combat vehicles are arriving at the front. However, there is one thing we cannot hear: we do not hear the United States leadership or the European Union say that we have finally had enough of the war, we have finally had enough of the killing, the destruction, enough of the sanctions that went backwards, from Europe to the brink of economic bled-out. [[14.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, Let me mention some data in this circle. So far, the United States has provided nearly 50 billion, the United Kingdom 6 billion, Poland 3 billion, Germany 6 billion euros in nominal terms, military equipment and economic and financial support to Ukraine. This is all in all, if all the donors are included, it amounts to roughly HUF 130,000 in a year. This is practically twice the GDP of Hungary. In the current situation, when the European Union, serving foreign high-power interests, encourages its own Member States to carry arms and then focuses on the arming of Ukraine through joint procurement of ammunition, it is likely that few people think that this European Union is the community that was awarded and rewarded with a Nobel Peace Prize 11 years ago in 2012. So far, 110 people and 27 organizations have received the Nobel Peace Prize, from Mother Teresa to Peresz Simón, from Albert Schweitzer to Henry Dunant. At that time, European leaders believed that all of this was made and made statements, including from Mr Jagland, the then Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, that the stabilisation role of the European Union had contributed to transforming the continent of peace into a continent of former wars. José Manuel Barroso, President of the European Commission at the time: [[...]] rise above war and division and form a continent of peace and prosperity together. At that time, Martin Schulz, President of the European Parliament, said: "The European Union is a beacon of democracy and reconciliation from the Balkans to the Caucasus. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Ladies and gentlemen, Where is this European Union? What'd he become in 11 years? Where did we get to? Today, when war hawks engulf Brussels and write war scenarios and don't talk about peace? What would the founding fathers of the European Union, Konrad Adenauer, De Gasperi, Robert Schuman, say? Ladies and gentlemen, Today's European Union has become unworthy of the Nobel Peace Prize. He couldn't prevent war; they're writing a war story, like I said. I therefore ask the European Union with great respect and even call on the European Union to return the Nobel Peace Prize! Because you don't deserve it because you've become unworthy of it! I see another possibility: perhaps give it to the Vatican or to Hungary, the Hungarians, because we alone say the immediate ceasefire, and we stand for peace. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-02-34	Tamás Menczer, Secretary of State, please.
u2023-05-02-35	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, Indeed, it is as you say: when the European Union was thought, thought up, created by the founding fathers, it had two well-defined goals. One is that there is peace on the continent, and the other is that the standard of living is increased, that people can live in prosperity as much as possible, and it is true that the current Brussels policy in the context of the war contradicts both original goals and goes against the original goals. The current pro-war position in Brussels has not brought peace, as we can see; the arms shipments you mentioned, or the sanctions policy, have not brought peace; on the contrary, we are seeing more serious scenes of the war than we have seen in recent months, now more than ever in more than a year. In fact, by the way, we are now hearing and reading about the transportation of nuclear-component weapons, the transportation of weapons containing depleted uranium, and these are being transported to the war; we are hearing and reading about the installation of nuclear weapons. Thus, it must be said that the risk and risk of World War III is currently greater than ever before. The other day I was asked the question that he really needed to talk so much about it, and so many times to say how serious the situation is, and that the risk of war, which would be a nuclear war, is significant. I think, and I think it is important to say this now: yes, it is necessary to talk so much about this, because it is already extremely frightening that politicians, experts and soldiers are talking about the chances of a clash between NATO and Russia and how the chances of the Third World War have increased; this in itself is frightening. We must draw attention to this threat at all times, as we must draw attention to the fact that we must at all costs avoid the clash between NATO and Russia, because then the war that is currently regional, with already global implications in the field of economy and energy, would be global in the military sense, and would be synonymous with the Third World War and the destruction of all of us. It is also particularly important to mention that, although Brussels policy was intended to bring peace, politicians and experts are currently talking about the fact that peace will not come: this war can last for years, and there are even now analyses and reflections on how this war could continue in a decade's perspective, which will continue to increase the threat significantly. Therefore, the Hungarian government's position remains unchanged: we want an immediate ceasefire and peace talks, and we claim that the immediate ceasefire is the most important and that lasting peace must be agreed at the negotiating table. It is also important to say here that anyone who does not want an immediate ceasefire, sets conditions for an immediate ceasefire and peace talks does not really want a ceasefire, does not want peace talks and does not want peace, so he is pro-war. Here I also draw the attention of left-wing colleagues to the fact that it is never too late to join the pro-peace camp. Pope Francis was here at the end of the week, and he spoke of peace and the importance of peace, in which we fully agree. Closing sign: we agree with the Holy Father on the support of families, on the importance of the family; we also agree that a united European states would not be useful or even harmful; and we also agree on the protection of persecuted Christians to highlight only four important points. Let me bring to you, at the last minute, a pro-peace resolution, even without the need for completeness, which was adopted by the Hungarian Parliament a few weeks ago, more precisely by the majority of its pro-government, because unfortunately, the left did not support it either. This pro-peace resolution begins with this:, We express our commitment to peace. This is the decision which the Hungarian left unfortunately did not support. We are under great pressure to join the pro-war and join those who support sanctions. But for us, it is always in the first place and primarily in the interests and security of Hungarian people, which is in the interests of peace, and it is in the interests of Hungarian people to abolish sanctions and harmful sanctions policy, at least in the field of energy, because then it is possible to go back to a normal economic state, and then to prevent sanctioning inflation and the increase in the price of energy with sanctions and to reduce inflation. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-02-36	At the end of the comments before the agenda, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Láng, on behalf of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2023-05-02-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, It is time for the Mayor of Budapest to provide solutions instead of excuses. It's time the mayor didn't always explain why he couldn't. So that you don't always plead that Viktor Orbán didn't allow it. These sentences are particularly topical today, even though they were spoken by Gergely Christmas as mayor candidate in 2019 in his campaign. For more than three and a half years, the author of these sentences has led the Municipality of Budapest Capital with his left-wing allies. Of course, it might be more accurate to say that for more than three and a half years no one has been leading the Municipality of the Capital, Gergely Christmas has been doing more than words and giving names to the players on the dollar left for economic and power games. What proves this better than seeing only scandals and failures in recent years after the spectacular development and development of urban development until 2019, a slimming, suffocating and bankrupting Budapest. [[14.30]] True, there were scary signs even in the days after the 2019 municipal elections. At the inaugural meeting of the general assembly of the capital, it turned out that the taxpayers had to pay five deputies so that all the players in the left-wing rainbow coalition would get what they wanted. Today, of course, those deputies have fled slowly, fleeing from the work and responsibility of power. Dávid Doros had to go because of his inadequacy, Gy. Erzsébet Németh came to Parliament to post a party, from here he takes the messages and instructions of Chief Gyurcsány to the mayor of Christmas [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: That's right!]] Kata Tüttő wants to take the direction next year towards the well-paying Brussels representativeship. Of course, they always have a new left-wing party man coming to their place, with a good salary, in the hope of further political opportunities. It was also a scary sign at the inaugural meeting of the Assembly in 19 to see the important cadres of the fallen Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments, which brought the country to the brink of moral and economic bankruptcy, as the terrible shadows of the past went to take an oath to take over the positions of the capital: Tibor Draskovics, Tamás Katona, Szűcs, pogács, Erika, Zoltán Szabó, Zoltán Gál J. Zoltán, Imre Lakos. Like a horror movie where Hungary is the victim. Dear House, We don't know that Gergely Christmas initially believed in his own beautiful words, which he himself said in his campaign and at the time of his oath, or he built his marketing of his later Prime Minister's desires, virtual reality, the delusions of social and left-wing media; he already knew that for him it was not important for Budapest, not for the development of the nation's capital, not for the everyday comfort and security of the people in it, but only for the self-serving party policy, the desire of the dollar-left to override everything. To date, we can't be sure that Mr. Christmas really didn't know that the economic sharks wanted to sell the town hall above his head, or that his accomplice had covered them all the time and covered them up to this day. We don't even know who approved his deputy's ex-partner trying to do business with BKV by setting up a phantom offshore company. But there is no meaningful explanation for painting unreasonable ad hoc bicycle lanes, generating everyday jams that make our lives miserable, temporarily paralyzing waste shipments, screwing up the Budapest advertising tender for perceived political reasons, which has since been a loss of billions of HUF for the Budapest budget. The Lanchid has not yet been fully handed over, someday with significant delays, reduced technical content, but perhaps billions more expensive than the original price. Meanwhile, there will be cuts in Budapest, as the left is again threatened with bankruptcy. It's true the famous saying of Thatheri: sooner or later they always run out of other people's money. While no substantial development or development has been seen in Budapest since 2019, while the previous savings inherited from the Tarlós leadership ran out, and the unplanned, record-sized business tax revenues are also revived by the Christmas leadership. And for us in Budapest, there will be the usual left-wing excuses, the empty register and the generation of a permanent political war against the government. And the great announcements that the capital doesn't pay [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] the tax provided for in the legislation. Bravo, let's go to anarchy. While Ferenc Gyurcsány smiles there, after his tragic government, he has many other ideas to destroy Budapest and the country. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-02-38	In response, I give the floor to Secretary of State Miklós Panyi. Here you go. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Who are you?]]
u2023-05-02-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Budapest, isn't it, a national matter? Budapest is the capital city of Hungary, all 15 million Hungarians, and therefore we have to take the city's affairs with respect. And indeed, Budapest deserves more [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Well, I'm sure you do.]] A city that works with this responsibility, whose horizon does not stop at the border of the Körút or suburban districts, but goes beyond that, and no doubt thinks of other parts of the country as well as important matters of the city. In addition to the legal obligation to pay solidarity contributions, the debate surrounding the solidarity contribution is unworthy of this responsibility. Because the essence of the solidarity contribution is the responsibility for each other, the representation of solidarity from the richer settlements towards poorer cities in a municipal system. This solidarity, this agreement, is now being broken by Gergely Christmas and the Budapest city leadership. This is unworthy of Budapest and the city's leadership. Honourable Congressman, There is no debate between us that since Gergely Christmas in 2019 and the coalition on the left behind took over the city, Budapest is in a worse state every year; the person living in Budapest clearly sees this. Budapest's transport was ruined by the city's management with the unthinkable bike lane paintings and roadblocks. The city's public areas have fallen, they're getting trashier, and Gergely Christmas has taken down a quarter of the city's trash cans. It doesn't make sense. The quality of public services in Budapest also continues to deteriorate. Meanwhile, developments have stopped. The investments started in the previous cycle have increased by tens of billions because of the slippages. Technically, in Budapest, which has been completed and built in recent years, the renovation of the Chain Bridge, the renovation of Metro 3 was started under the Mayorship of István Tarlós. Destroyed transport, deteriorating public cleanliness, deteriorating public services, lack of development; indiscretion, incompetence, lack of talent and incompetence characterize today's Budapest city leadership. And now we have come to the point that Gergely Christmas and the left behind it not only made it difficult for the people of Budapest to have their weekdays, but also put the city's management in the same state of bankruptcy in a few years as they did with Gyurcsányek Hungary. It seems that after three and a half years, after four years, the left is forced to bankrupt the one whose leadership was entrusted to him. This is the recipe for the left: empty the full register, fill the pockets of the buddies [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: NER?]] Destroy all that works well, so transport, public cleanliness, bankrupt a disciplined management system like that built by Mayor István Tarlós, then press the emergency bell and point the responsibility to someone else. Finally, to announce a austerity package, to borrow money to solve the crisis that they themselves have caused. The Left regularly bankrupts what was entrusted to him: Gyurcsány in 2006 the country, and Gergő Christmas, it seems, in 2023, the capital of the nation. In both cases, it is true that both the management of the city and the country took over both in 2002 and 2019 with an excellent financial, economic background and stable public finances. Some facts about this are: Budapest's features are exceptional, as Budapest's level of development is twice the national average, and this also means that its tax revenues and its economic tax power are excellent. The capital city's tax power increased by nearly 60 percent in 12 years. So there is no problem with Budapest's talents. Also, there is no problem with the state of public finances. In 2019, Gergő Christmas took control of the capital with a reserve of 214 billion HUF, while Moody's credit rating improved the financial classification of Budapest in the middle of the Covid epidemic in 2020. There is therefore no financial problem. It wasn't a public financial problem. There are no problems with tax revenue, as the local industrialisation tax revenues of the metropolitan government increased by more than three times by 2023 to 271 billion. In addition, the government continues to support the management of the capital with more than HUF 46 billion. So if we understand that there is no problem with Budapest's gifts, financial situation, tax revenues, then we must ask the question. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] What's the problem. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The problem is the ability of the city's management, Gergely Christmas and its management are not fit to lead the nation's capital. Thank you for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[14.40]]
u2023-05-02-40	Dear House, Máté Kocsis volunteered to speak because of personal involvement. If you maintain your claim [[For signal:]] I'll give you the floor in two minutes, according to the house rules. Here you go.
u2023-05-02-41	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity. András Jámbor addressed me in connection with a police procedure for the lady of the Spark Movement, but I never mentioned the name of this woman, and if I do not offend her, I do not know her name now, but I did pronounce your name, Congressman, and after having a text interpretation problem, I repeat what I said. Yeah, we know all about you, but that's enough for us to read your articles. Don't get your hopes up. You don't need any more. You're a communist, my dear friend, who's working to turn Hungary upside down, who's supported from abroad. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: My dear friend?! How long have we been this close? Show some respect.]] That's all I said. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: That's right! That's right. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. András Imre Jámbor applauds.]] Lenin and the Bolsheviks named after a newspaper called Iskra. [[Szabolcs Szabó: How is this personal involvement?]] And yes, my dear friend, it's exactly like someone naming a movement in Hungary by the name of the attacking movement of Völkischer Beobachter or Der Stürmer and spreading a murderous ideology in the country. In addition, when you say that you only use tape, I'll tell you that your family and friends took up public office during working hours, which happens to be the building of the yoga town council, by force. Private businesses are barricaded by violence, cordoned down, and under cover of night they defile the offices of their political opponents; this is what is happening. [[Noise in opposition lines.]] And after you promote the fashionable, violent left-wing anti-trees in the West, I think you shouldn't be surprised if you're accused of importing violence. You let this ghost out of the bottle. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Budaházy, it's your friend who's been released! Noise in opposition benches.]] But we will destroy this spirit, Congressman, even if you don't like it and don't hide behind other people's skirts, but you make reference to yourself in this debate. Bye-bye. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Noise in opposition benches.]]
u2023-05-02-42	Dear Parliament, I am not aware of any provision in the house rules to respond to the opposition on the basis of personal involvement, so, unfortunately, this debate is closed here. The honourable Members... [[There's an uproar in the opposition benches.]] The first speaker was Mr. Pious, but I would like to inform those who were at the time. The first speaker who spoke with regard to another Member was Mr Pious, and now he has the answer, so please be content with that. We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2023-05-02-43	Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; László Varju, DK; Balázs Barkóczi, DK; Andrea Hegedüs, DK; Ferenc Varga, independent; Zoltán Varga, DK; Judit Ráczné Földi, DK. He applied for the speech before the agenda tomorrow: Máté Kanász-Nagy, LMP; Tamás Mellár, Dialogue; István Apáti, Mi Hazank; János Bencze, Jobbik; Ágnes Kunhalmi, MSZP; Dávid Bedő, Momentum; László Varju, DK; István Simicskó, KDNP; Lajos Kósa, Fidesz. He applied for the speech following the agenda tomorrow: Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Péter Balassa, Jobbik. On Thursday, he applied for a speech after the agenda: Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Péter Balassa, Jobbik.
u2023-05-02-44	Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that a motion to suspend the immunity of the Fidesz MP János Pócs was received on 18 April 2023, 1.Bpk.211/2022/5. I'm calling from the District Court in Tiszafüred on a private charge of defamation and defamation. I've issued this to the immunity committee to examine it. I would like to inform you that the immunity committee has submitted its proposal for a resolution in this matter, so that the agenda proposes that immunity be suspended on tomorrow's meeting. Dear House, President Katalin Novák sent the Parliament a transcript of the appointment of a new State Secretary. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Shame!]] I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to explain this.
u2023-05-02-45	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4) (j) of the Fundamental Law and the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration. Law 202. On the basis of paragraph 2 of the Act, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, I appointed Zsolt Barthel-Rúzsa as State Secretary of the Ministry of Defence with effect from 1 May 2023. Yours sincerely, Katalin Novak. I'm sorry, I'm sorry,
u2023-05-02-46	Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of Parliament and myself, to wish you every success in your work as Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Dear House, The Fidesz Group has proposed that the agenda for the Parliament's meetings of 2 May, 3 May, 4 May and 8 May 2023 be added to the P/3825 on the rejection of migration and on-site support for issuing countries. With the negotiation and adoption of Political Declaration No 20 as the last item on Tuesday, 2 May 2023, the final vote on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote on Wednesday, 3 May 2023. Anyone who agrees with that, please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. I declare that the DK Group has proposed to supplement the agenda proposal, which is proposed in the House Rule 15 of the Decision. I refused pursuant to paragraph 4a of Section 4a, given that it is not subject to Article 15. It has been submitted in accordance with paragraph 4 of Section 4. The proposer of the rejected proposal initiated the repeal of the President's decision. The Parliament would decide on this without debate, with a hand lift, unless Mr Ferenc Gyurcsány Group leader had initiated the use of the ballot counting machine in the vote. But after you've initiated it, and I'm going to allow it, we're going to use a voting machine to make the decision. Please check that your card is in the voting machine. In accordance with the motion, I am now asking the Honourable Parliament to maintain the scope of the OE-42/298-1/2023. President's decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the House President's decision was confirmed by 122 votes in favour, 40 votes against and no abstentions. I would like to announce that the MSZP Group has proposed to supplement the agenda proposal and, in this context, to leave agenda items which are proposed in the House Rule 15 of the Decision. I refused pursuant to paragraph 4a of Section 4a, given that it is not subject to Article 15. It has been submitted in accordance with paragraph 4 of Section 4. The proposer of the rejected proposal initiated the repeal of the President's decision and, as at the previous time, the use of the ballot counting machine in the decision. In accordance with the motion, I am therefore now asking the Honourable Parliament to maintain the scope of the OE-42/302-1/2023. President's decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the House will maintain the Speaker's decision by 122 votes in favour, 41 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please decide that by a raise-up vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the visible majority of this House has adopted the Parliament's agenda. I would like to inform you that, as we have just decided, P/3825. It may submit an amendment to the political statement No 17 hours 49 minutes after the adoption of the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, Before we get to the discussions, I would like to ask my fellow Members, who have somewhere else to do, to leave the meeting room relatively quickly and mainly quietly, and until then we will have a technical break. [[14.50]] (Sunning: 14.49 14.51) President: László Fat Note: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Szűcs)
u2023-05-02-47	With all due respect, my fellow Members, if you have something to discuss, take care of it in the corridor, not in the Chamber. [[Several Members continue to speak standing up.]] I could not be more clear, fellow Members, what I wanted to say to you. [[Several of them are leaving the meeting room.]] Dear Parliament, Balázs Barkóczi, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior. I give the floor to the congressman. Here you go.
u2023-05-02-48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. It is easier for all dictatorships to take away the freedom of people who have been pushed into poverty, and every narcissistic leader knows it, and the Orbán government knows it, because the systematic destruction of public education over the past 12 years all points in this direction: the Fidesz few, the children of the Fidesz elite, have private schools and elites waiting for them, while the school buildings rotting on the children of the working masses, soaked, unheated classrooms and empty cathedrals, as if you continue to do so, honourable secretary of state, there will be no teachers in the Hungarian schools within ten years. After all, how would you stay a teacher in Hungarian public education when, in the last two years of fast inflation in Orbán, at the time of 45 percent food price inflation and sevenfold increase, you have raised the wages of teachers to a degree that is a real shame of Europe. In other words, Hungarian teachers and all of us are worse off because of Viktor Orbán, while you have uncounted the tens and hundreds of billions of people scattered on leafless canopy walkways, stadiums or viewers in the middle of the wilderness. They didn't spend any money on two things, which would have been important: our children and their educational-educating graduates. How would you stay a teacher in public schools, Mr. Secretary of State, when, with the EU's money for teacher wage increases, you do not want to pay the teachers for revenge again, because you know as well as I do that the EU has not suspended the money for wage increases, but the resources that the Fidesz elite could steal with the help of fidesz justice. What is really threatening the arrival of EU funds is your status law, which the European Union has already said no to. And how would you stay a teacher in public schools when the exploitation of teachers is being raised to the level of law? They take away the last privilege of educators, that is to say, the public employment relationship, so that they can be loaded here and there for the same ridiculous salary or worked 12 hours a day. It seems that Viktor Orbán has finally decided that he wants to prevent the subsequent protests by keeping the teachers in poverty and by looting their full rights, and he hopes that the despair and livelihood crisis caused by inflation in Orbán will make teachers shut up and submit to the system. Then I ask the Honourable Secretary of State why they are not finally willing to give teachers a decent teacher's wage increase so that thousands of people are not forced to leave the country because of inflation in Orbán. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-05-02-49	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2023-05-02-50	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Minister of Shadows, Dear House, Let's see how Ferenc Gyurcsány treated the Hungarian teachers, what he did when he was on the government [[Kálmán Olga: Let's not look at that.]] when he was Prime Minister! Who is the only Hungarian prime minister, government that took wages from Hungarian teachers, who reduced the wages of Hungarian teachers? It's Ferenc Gyurcsány! Who has 15,000 teachers in a year, 15,000 teachers! You put me on the street? It's Ferenc Gyurcsány! Feel free to pay attention to Mr Arató, because he was brought to the ministry with the symbolic set of keys on which, by the way, was the key to the 381 schools that were closed, just when 15,000 teachers were dismissed. [[Gergely Arató: I met the protesters, and I didn't spray them with tear gas!]]
u2023-05-02-51	Please reduce yourself. Please behave yourself.
u2023-05-02-52	This was the time, you know, when they even tied me to a teacher's degree in tuition. This was the time when there was a mass layoff and a reduction in salaries in Hungary. And what does Ferenc Gyurcsány do now? Let me quote you, though I think you know exactly what it is that you don't have to lie, we were there, that's what we do. Ferenc Gyurcsány said that the resources for Hungarian people, from which we would spend HUF 800 billion on raising the wages of Hungarian teachers, should not arrive in Hungary. He said that he couldn't come to Hungary with EU money, and the whole procedure in this area said that it was just dressed in such a legal robe. This is a political attack dressed in a legal robe, behind which is the Hungarian left, Ferenc Gyurcsány, Klára Dobrev, MEPs and representatives of Hungary. This has not been the case in Hungary, honourable Member, to deal with the fact that Hungarian teachers do not receive the wage increase they deserve. For those who say that because of corruption risks, Hungarian teachers do not receive their raises, they need to be quite blind politically. What is the risk of corruption in raising the wages of 170,000 Hungarian teachers? What would happen if you finally stopped this campaign based on lies in Brussels and stopped preventing the HUF 800 billion needed for the Hungarian teacher's wage increase from arriving in Hungary? What would happen? The next day, the wages of Hungarian teachers would rise to HUF 561,000, more precisely not the next day, but until January 1. So it would rise to HUF 561,000, next year to HUF 681 thousand, next year, and from 2025 to HUF 800 thousand, the Hungarian average fee would increase. What are you guys doing compared to that? They are not helping this by an inch, but they are constantly hindering it, and they are trying to harass Hungarian teachers with all kinds of false news that you have said here, which have been typical of their relationship before, and they are also included in a draft bill for social debate, which is not yet in front of Parliament. You're telling the teachers a lot of untruths, trying to turn them against the government with a lot of untruths. Speaking of fees, let me make a parentheses comment: Eurostat published its statement six days ago or about a week ago that Hungary had the lowest rents in the last year. So we are working to ensure that Hungarian teachers have a salary that is closer to the social responsibility they are wearing, as they are raising Hungarian children. Unfortunately, you are blocking this, honourable Member. At last, for once, talk about this honestly. He has spoken many times, but tell me honestly why Hungarian teachers are hindered from raising wages! You may be against us or against us, and you do not love us, you have the right, it is a natural part of politics, but why did you choose to bully teachers, why are you trying to take this part of the salary increase from teachers instead of getting it and getting a decent salary in Hungary? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-02-53	I would like to ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's reply.
u2023-05-02-54	Thank you, Mr. President. I can't accept the answer, Mr. Secretary. Let's go in line because he wasn't telling the truth. In eight years, the Gyurcsány governments have increased the salary of teachers more than now in 13 years. I'm going to say this slowly so you can understand that the EU's teachers' wage increase money is here, and Nicolas Schmit himself confirmed it, and you don't want to give it to teachers for political revenge. [[Bence Rétvári: Where? Where? Show me. Where are they? Show me. What day did they arrive?]] About who's been fighting the arrival of EU money? [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Your Prime Minister Viktor Orbán asked MEPs in Strasbourg in 2006 to loot Hungary from a thousand billion forints. [[Bence Rétvári: That's not true! That's not true.]] So please don't talk about EU funds. What do they do with education? Your information service has this small table of infocommunications, in which Hungarian teachers' wages are also the last in our environment compared to the minimum wage. We in the shadow government would raise Hungarian teachers' wages by 45%, withdraw the status law, so Hungary's only hope today is the shadow government to restore education. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-05-02-55	I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, decisions on interpellation will take place on our meeting tomorrow, in each case, so I will not repeat this. Imre Komjáthi, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Economic Development. I give you the floor, please. [[15.00]]
u2023-05-02-56	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, According to press reports, it was not possible to find a new investor for Tungsram, so, unfortunately, further closure and redundancies took place at the company's premises. Tungsram, a strategic partner of the government, announced last year that he would discharge most of his employees due to financial difficulties, so that less than 400 people now work for the company instead of the previous 3,000 employees. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) The workers of the rural sites are in a very difficult situation. A significant number of employees from Zalaegerszeg, Hajdúböszörmény, Nagykanizsa and Kisvárda plants have not found jobs since then, even though several people have taken 100 to 200 km of commute to a new job. In the meantime, the government stood by and watched Tungsram as its strategic partner cancel several points of the collective agreement, so the redundant workers were far worse off because they were paid under the Labour Code. Thus, the minimum wage workers will receive less than one million HUF. The government promise that the people who have lost their jobs can receive 250,000 forints of support is of little help, as the promised free re-training is reported to be paid with this money. The only remedy against such problems can be what we have already proposed, namely that the strategic agreements concluded by the government include the protection of workers. Labour and occupational safety of workers must be guaranteed. It should not be a strategic partner of the Hungarian state and should not receive state aid, who does not respect that. In connection with Tungsram's problems, I have repeatedly initiated the Hungarian government to contact the European Globalisation Fund for help. This could mean aid of millions of euros, and the Hungarian State would only have to finance 15% of the project. The amount drawn from here should be used to retrain workers, to supplement wages or to support businesses. The last answer I received from Deputy Minister Zsófia Koncz is that the government has the resources to deal with possible redundancies, and there are even currently EU programmes to help those affected. Well, then it's time they didn't just bullshit. I therefore expect an answer to what has been done to ensure that Tungsram does not unilaterally break down several points of the collective agreement. What's the point of a strategic partnership if the government has no influence on a company that causes millions of damage to redundant workers? Why do they support such a company with taxpayers' money, why do they have to pay for supposedly free re-training if the government also has resources to deal with redundancies? Finally, when will you turn to the European Globalisation Fund to support those who have lost their jobs? I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary.
u2023-05-02-57	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, State Secretary János Fónagy responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2023-05-02-58	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The government has done its best to protect families, to avoid recession, to maintain full employment and to break down inflation, even in the difficult economic situation affected by war and sanctions. Compared to left-wing governments, there are now one million more people working in Hungary, and in March 2023 the number of workers increased to 4 million,707,000. The employment of around 12,000 job seekers has so far been requested for job-creating support programmes and 10,000 job-seekers have already been re-employed. The government provided ten billion forints of support for this. The government's objective is to assist Tungsram's collective staff with all available means to relocate them. The measures were based on three main pillars: both prevention of unemployment and mitigation of adverse consequences, implementation from work to work, provision of training support within the framework of the labour market programme, job fairs, information days, free advice for workers. The government pays particular attention to the early location of the employees involved in the group depopulation of the company. By providing the necessary resources, it created the conditions for the early re-entry of the planned employees. Thanks to these measures, government agencies were able to provide a job search incentive for the training and re-training of the Tungsram workers involved in the dismantling. The support for the training of 32 staff has already been achieved. Government agencies have helped re-locate with labour law, labour advice and information based on the territorial competence of the municipalities listed by you. The most important thing was that workers who might be affected by dismissal should not remain unemployed for a day. Several employers have indicated that they would take over most of the workers affected by the redundancies, thereby mitigating their own labour shortages, thus continuing the employment of the decommissioned workers. Most of the employers have been on the ground, so both workers and employers are in a fair position, and the majority of those affected by the redundancies are already in position. I would like to confirm to the Member's question that labour law is regulated by law. Everyone, the employer and the employee have their rights in the law. If, within their framework, either one or the other abuses, for example, a violation of specific points of the collective agreement, all parties have access to remedies. I am convinced that instead of a political attack, the path of law and legality should be pursued. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-02-59	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2023-05-02-60	Thank you very much. I cannot accept your answer, Mr. Secretary. I'm sorry, you're acting like Bodo's when you ask for the price of wine; you're always talking about something else. I did what you didn't. I went to Nagykanizsa, went to Kisvárda, went to Újpest, and talked to the people who worked there for 30-40 years and put them on the street. And I read them their last answer, and you know what they said: I can't get enough of it. I can't take care of my family. And you claim that I have great respect for you, once again, that it is law. These laws are made up of you. We regularly submit amendments because we want to change the situation of the working people, but you are sweeping these proposals off the table. The laws have been written by you since 2010. Have compassion on the Hungarian workers and accept our proposals to eliminate their vulnerability to your domestic and foreign capital. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2023-05-02-61	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that, according to our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance:. A competition that should not be won: when do we get off the top of the inflation list? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-05-02-62	Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, Hungary was in a race where otherwise it should not be passed in the turn. This inflation figure, about 25 percent, which has already created a kind of plateau roofing for several months, causes some quite amazing damage to Hungarian families. In particular, this Hungarian inflation data typically refers to external factors if we compare it with the countries of the region and, say, the European average, where we find a 6.9 percent average. But if we look at Spain, where there was courage to reduce the VAT on basic foods to 0 percent, we can see that inflation is also around 3 percent. [[15.10]] And it is not difficult to understand that in Hungary this amazing exploding figure is partly caused by a completely flawed system of price caps, as we do not want to discuss the intention of making prices cheaper, more accurate, for six or seven products, but we have seen that there was no control mechanism, Mr Secretary of State, for six or seven thousand products, they allowed these multi-networks to transfer to consumers not only their real costs but also their perceived costs without any penalty. On the other hand, you have done nothing to take responsibility for. Years ago, we proposed in the same room the creation of an online price monitoring database, which is able to clarify with a color code that can be understood by everyone where there is a real market process behind a price explosion and where it is concerned that a given multi-company is simply abusing consumer confidence and can do this without control. For five years, Mr Secretary of State, they have essentially not appreciated the proposal that they are now starting to make, and I hope that it will not be grounded, with a fair content. But overall, today, too, has been said, and I agree with Parliamentary Secretary Fónagy, that in a normal national economy, he would be able to pay normal wages that can be measured by European standards, that should be able to obtain a decent job, and that, if the wage level were fair, the costs that have increased even during the crisis would be much easier to manage. This is why the question arises: on the one hand, what would the government want to do with this brutally rising plateau inflation, and, on the other hand, it opened the door to the EU's wage balance concept, which would require multi-companies to begin fairly, following this amendment of strategic contracts, to approximate wages to the European average, obviously not by command, but by channelling cohesion resources in this direction, opening them up to Hungarian micro-, small and medium-sized enterprises. So the essence of my question is: when does the government choose the everyday interests of Hungarian workers, their representation? Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause in the dialogue.]]
u2023-05-02-63	Dear Parliament, Deputy Minister András Tállai responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2023-05-02-64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In addition to talking about more and more than your short interpellation, if you don't mind, I'd like to go back to your written interpellation, because you're still critical of the government for why they're making extra profit. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's right!]] essentially, why does he impose the extra-profit tax, thus saying in Hungarian that he does not support the taxation of companies producing extra-profits due to significant inflation and energy price increases [[Dániel Z. Kárpát: This was not the case in the interpellation, Mr. Secretary of State. You've got it all wrong. That wasn't part of it!]] and by increasing the Rezségvédelmi Fund and protecting the Hungarian population, you do not support this. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: There was no such thing in the interpellation!]] But... [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Don't make any false claims. The president's ringing the bell.]] I'm guessing you've read what they've written down for you. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Try to understand, Mr. Secretary.]] And then he realized he didn't support it, and he didn't say it orally, and it wasn't my fault. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: I will read it literally, Mr. Secretary of State!]] In writing, however, it is filed, here it is, that the extra profit... [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: I will read it literally!]] Come on, let's see Spain. Well, this is not a good example, Spain, because it is true that the Spanish Government is trying to temporarily reduce the VAT on food, the reduced VAT on food to zero, but this has failed to stop inflation, food inflation, and the price of food continues to increase despite zero inflation, the Spanish themselves say that the Spanish Minister for Agriculture has announced that food prices are continuing to increase. Thus, by reducing VAT, the Spanish example also shows that the price of the goods in question is not directly reduced, and this does not mean that the consumer pays less. But speaking of Spain, if you will allow me, the unemployment rate in Spain is 12.9 percent and more than three times the unemployment rate in Hungary. Do you want this example in Hungary? It is important to ask the millions of people in Spain that they are pleased that the VAT of 5% or 4% has been reduced to zero per cent; they would be more pleased if they had a job, an income and could consume and that Hungarian example. The Hungarian example is that jobs must be protected, people should be protected, and the Hungarian government will do so. In his written interpellation, he criticized the introduction of the price cap and asked when we would lead it out. I would like to warn you here that in the autumn of 2021 you proposed a price cap for fuels, and the government proposed a price of HUF 500, less. They were still next to the price cap, and now I don't know what's changed, and now in his written interpellation, he says the price cap needs to be removed as soon as possible. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] And it is welcome to support the introduction of the online price monitoring system. Yes, we are also giving the economy another opportunity to monitor the comparability of consumer prices, thereby helping the population to lower prices on a market basis. The Parties have undertaken that this will take effect on 30 June and can be operated thereafter. Thank you for your support. Otherwise, we recommend that you monitor other measures that we take. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And you will support them. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-02-65	I thank the Secretary of State, Deputy Minister, for his reply. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the congressman if he'll take the answer. You have the floor.
u2023-05-02-66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to quote to the Secretary of State: the price of food and non-alcoholic beverages has risen at a somewhat decreasing rate, by 16,5 percent in March, Spain, and in Hungary the rise in food prices is above 40 percent, Mr Secretary of State. So my request, if you try to explain the inexplicable, at least draw up facts, figures that support what you have to say. For the record, you assumed my opinion of the extra-profit tax. Unfortunately, he completely misinterpreted my written interpellation, in which he said:, at the same time, the government has created an amazing extra profit in the process of inflation. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I'm asking you to interpret what I've written. Their extra profit comes from record food VAT, it's taken away from the citizens, the population, instead of being channeled back. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] This is the main reason why I cannot accept...
u2023-05-02-67	I'd like to ask you for an answer...
u2023-05-02-68	...the answer you received. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President.
u2023-05-02-69	Dear Parliament, The congressman did not accept the Deputy Minister's reply. I would like to inform you that, according to our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Rebecca Szabó and Bence Tordai, representatives of the Dialogue, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Energy:. When will our energy policy really serve national interests? It's an address. Congressman Bence of Turdai has the floor.
u2023-05-02-70	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Madam Deputy Minister, In January 2014, it started with the signature of the Moscow nuclear pact, and Fidesz's energy campaign continues to this day. There is still a senseless ban on wind power, a solar energy charger, a network restriction that discriminates against green energy or solar power households, and they continue to pour state billions into the failed, but ever since then, completely impossible, Paks expansion project, as if there were enough money in the world to bring this energy freak to life. The explanation has always been that the government is only interested in secure and affordable energy supply, but in this sentence the safe and affordable supply of energy can be replaced at any time:. It would be so ridiculous, given the failed gas contract of Péter Szijjártó, awarded with the highest Russian state medal, we now buy Russian gas for twice as much as buying it on the European gas market. As far as security is concerned, what Hungary is paying in the weak forint, in record inflation, in the vulnerability of the economy is that we are still completely vulnerable to Russian energy imports. But first things first. In Hungary, the cheapest electricity is produced by existing wind power plants, compared to which the government banned the construction of additional ones. Does the wind power ban contribute to Hungary's secure and affordable energy supply? The answer is clearly no. On the other hand, is it in Russia's financial interests that the government maintains the market and maintains the market for the Russian atom and gas? The answer is clearly yes. [[15.20]] The same can be said for a word with the penalty tax and the solar panels hit by the accession stop: there is no Hungarian interest in the restriction and Russian interests. The weirdest thing, though, is the atom. Apart from Orbán and his courtship, it is clear to everyone that Rosatom is unable to build a nuclear power plant in the EU, yet they insist on keeping the Russian company in this failed project, even at the cost of giving up contractual guarantees protecting Hungary so far. Is there a Hungarian interest in this? No. What about Russian interest? That's all there is. The facts speak for themselves. You, my fellow members of the Government, are not Hungary, but Russia. All we need now is the answer: the Orbán government is willing to shape energy policy on the basis of Hungarian interests, and if so, when will it lift the wind power ban, the solar stop, and when will it finally terminate the Paks contract with my incompetent Rosat? I ask all of this not only in the name of Benedek Jávor and the Dialogue-Greens, but also in the name of all responsible Hungarian people, and I look forward to your reply with great curiosity. Thank you very much.
u2023-05-02-71	Thank you. I would like to point out, Congressman, that I have called you a representative. Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister Zsófia Koncz, who wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor.
u2023-05-02-72	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, If I were to answer briefly the questions you asked, I could say that since 2010, there has been a policy of national interest in the country. But what was it before 2010? Was it your allies who, despite their earlier promise, raised energy prices 15 times? Yeah. Was it your allies who gave away foreign energy companies, including Russian ownership of MOL shares? Yeah. Was it your allies that caused the Hungarian families to pay Europe's most expensive energy prices in 2010 because the left-wing government gave up regulatory price regulation and foreign service providers immediately passed on their costs to the population? Yeah. So, what's going on since 2010? a few questions about this. Since 2010, have you built four new interconnectors and made it possible for the seven neighbouring countries to connect our power grids seven times? No. Did you buy back the gas stores sold by the left for the energy security of Hungarian families? No. Were you the ones who introduced and protected the cost reduction? Do you provide the lowest energy prices in Europe for Hungarian families despite the energy crisis caused by the war? No. I think that these are some of the important facts that we must definitely go through if you ask such a question, Mr President. I would also like to point out that, after 2010, we have tried to recover as much as possible from 190 strategically important companies that have unfortunately been squandered by the left. I think that this is clearly an energy policy of national interest. Since 2013, we have maintained the reduction of the rent. About how the overhead cuts work, some data. In the universal supply of natural gas, around 80 percent of consumption places, 75 percent of power supply, remained in full below the band limit. According to Eurostat's report published last week, the European Union's statistical office reported that in the second half of 2022, while average household electricity prices in the European Union rose sharply, for example, in Germany the retail price of gas increased by almost 40 percent, the prices of gas and electricity were the lowest in Hungary. I think that if it had been up to you and I thought about the Dialogue, we would not have been able to achieve this, because you voted 'no' when you amended the budget, and it was very, very important that we quadrupled the amount of the Rezségvédelmi Fund, and that is how we were able to ensure this for Hungarian families. In addition to security of supply, nuclear power plays an important role in ensuring affordable prices. Neither you nor your faction have voted to extend the Paks Nuclear Power Plant's operating time, and even Paks II. They are constantly demanding that it be stopped. I always wonder if you will think about what the Hungarian energy supply would look like if these were actually happening, while we also talk about the climate targets related to CO2 emissions. Of course, they agree with that in words, but I would also say that Paks currently accounts for half of the domestic power generation and about a third of the use, Paks I. 14 million, Paks II. It would make available a reduction of 17 million tonnes of CO2 emissions per year. In addition to these solar panels, very briefly: according to a recent report, Hungary is ranked 6th in the world and 3rd in Europe in terms of the share of solar energy in the electricity mix. I think that these are very important results, and I would like to ask the Member to accept my answer. Thank you so much for listening.
u2023-05-02-73	Thank you, Madam Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Congressman to accept the Deputy Minister's reply. You have the floor.
u2023-05-02-74	Madam Secretary, your result is that gas has been raised seven times in the last 13 years, double the price of electricity. Overall, this affected almost two thirds of households. Ask KSH: on average, the price of energy has doubled for them. So from here on out, it's hard to talk about cheap energy and energy security. He misses the solutions to the Dialogue Greens. A million times we have suggested to them the study developed by Benedek Jávor and available on the sustainable energy website.eu. We have exactly the solution of the Greens to a fair and secure energy transition. So I would like to ask the government to do at least as much for energy security and energy poverty as a civil society organisation, the Light Bringers Foundation, who will ensure that families where there is no electricity have a solar panel on the roof, a battery and electric lights that will guarantee nearly 9,000 children the missing light with a cost-effective operation. That's what they should be doing. That's why we're saving them 2 million forints. I ask the fellow citizens with us to support...
u2023-05-02-75	Thank you very much, Congressman.
u2023-05-02-76	...and the government to take the right example...
u2023-05-02-77	Thank you very much, Congressman, the time frame is long over.
u2023-05-02-78	...and they should do something of the same kind. Thank you very much.
u2023-05-02-79	Thank you for your understanding. Dear Parliament, The congressman did not accept the Deputy Minister's reply. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Energy:. After the first statements in this direction, it was not enough for eight months for the government to finally lift the restrictions on the installation of wind power plants and not take concrete steps if they cause serious damage to Hungary? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-05-02-80	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I think none of us can count how many times the LMP fraction has asked when the administrative limits for the installation of wind power plants will be lifted. I hope the moment has come when we will finally have answers to these questions. I think you know exactly how important wind energy would be in mitigating the energy crisis and the climate crisis, but the government is rejecting it. We know exactly that administrative restrictions were introduced in 2016 which make it virtually impossible to install wind power plants. Clearly, you know very well that wind energy is one of the cheapest and greenest energy technologies, and you do not dispute it, nor should it be forgotten, and it would be a very important aspect of a national government, a government that calls itself national, that it would also be possible to reduce energy dependence, especially Russian energy dependence. There have been professional debates, but I think it is clear to everyone that 90 percent of the country's territory is capable of using wind energy economically. Your former boss, Minister Palkovics, made a statement about eight months ago that the government was counting on wind energy, then Minister Lantos, when he was appointed, and several times after that, said that there would be a change in regulation, but since then there has been no concrete statement, and that there is no such regulation. Our last written question was also answered by continuing to be monitored, by trying to check the appropriate regulations, by working on the details. You have taken a very, very important deadline. March 31st was the deadline for you to reduce or abolish these administrative restrictions and allow wind power plants to be installed. This is part of the agreement with the European Commission, and this is a condition for Hungary to have access to the fund's development resources of 2200 billion. Well, in recent times, we have seen that you are not really doing anything to increase energy self-determination and green energy transition. We couldn't even hear a professional argument about the use of wind energy, but it's shocking that they would risk a huge amount of resources because they simply don't want to do what they already think is desirable for some reason. If this is not the case, and yet I would like to help the Hungarian people with these resources, I would like to ask the honourable Deputy Minister to give a concrete answer to what is happening in the government's witchcraft kitchens, what is happening right now in the area of regulations, and when it can happen that you will bring a motion to the Parliament that will finally lift this restriction and finally give us the opportunity to launch this very important green energy production in Hungary once again on the path of completion. [[15.30]] So when are wind farms finally allowed to be installed? And I am very, very confident that I can get a political, rather than a political, professional response from the Secretary of State. Thank you. [[Applause from the LMP benches.]]
u2023-05-02-81	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Deputy Minister Zsófia Koncz responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2023-05-02-82	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, There is no difference of opinion between the government and the LMP on the increased involvement and use of renewable energy sources. This is also well demonstrated by the fact that while in 2010 the share of electricity produced from renewable energy sources was 7.1 percent in Hungary, almost 14 percent in 2021 thanks to the government's support policy. Our country is one of the first to record it at the legal level: by 2050, our goal is to achieve full climate neutrality. The ninth best value for CO2 emissions per capita within the EU is in our country. We have taken the right steps in terms of climate-neutral energy production in recent years, and Hungary is already doing better than most EU countries, better than Cyprus, Ireland or Spain. Although LMP seems to have a clear preference for wind energy, renewable energy also includes energy other than solar energy. I think that we have achieved tremendously good results in this regard, but at the same time, as you have pointed out, the Ministry of Energy, in addition to solar energy in order to make better use of renewable energy sources, also has an increased role for geothermal energy, biomass and wind energy. The share of wind energy is already almost 10 percent within the share of electricity produced from renewable energy sources; in Hungary there is a wind power plant with 330 megawatt capacity. With regard to wind power plants, we have already talked about the fact that their construction, installation, application and subsequent decommissioning, and the management of the waste generated by them, are a few shades more complex than you suggest from your communication. Perhaps we can say that this is not something that hummingbirds do not spin on wind power propellers and other parts, and Minister Lantos pointed out that it is very important to consult local communities, because there may also be important municipal and aesthetic concerns. And if we are to discuss it with you, it should also be pointed out that it is not so clear, even among climate activists, how much you support the construction of wind wheels. Greta Thunberg, a well-known climate activist, protested against it, and practically with several representatives of the numerical minority, they blocked the energy ministry building in Norway at the beginning of the year. They protested because the operation of the turbines violates the rights of their ancient reindeer herders to their way of life, the sight and sound of huge wind farms frightens their animals and interferes with the practice of ancient traditions. So what you can see is that this is a complex issue, it needs to be examined very much, and, of course, noise, birds and environmental aspects must also be addressed in all aspects. Mr President, Mr President, you also raised the issue of EU funds. In this connection, I would like to point out that Brussels originally had 17 conditions, which the government fulfilled by deadline. However, the Commission seems to be stalling and coming up with new conditions. It is very sad that they are on the left, who say that their patriotic obligation is to ensure that EU money does not arrive in our country. I think that this is very wrong, and the LMP fraction, although [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I would like to ask you to help in the future the decisions that will help the European Union to arrive. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-02-83	I thank you, Madam Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Deputy Minister's reply.
u2023-05-02-84	Thank you, Mr. President. In response to all his references, I would like to start by saying that we have always been consistent in the fact that European Union funds are due to Hungarian people. No one can pursue, in our belief, a policy to take these funds away from the European Union. We have always argued that the mistakes and sins of a corrupt government cannot be punished by Hungarian people, so we have been consistent in this regard. Unfortunately, there is no European Parliament representation of the LMP in this term, but if there were, we would therefore focus on the issue of the discovery of corruption and not on the withdrawal of funds. I think that it is also clear and we agree that, alongside solar energy, wind energy would be a very important additional energy source, which would increase energy security. We also agree that local self-determination must be ensured, so that there must be an opportunity to have a say in regulation at local level. At the same time, seeing that this is indeed such a complex issue that it goes beyond the government's so-called policy readiness to put in place a regulation in this regard, I would suggest asking the excellent Hungarian experts available to help to ensure that the regulation is put in place as soon as possible. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And since I have not received a specific reply, Mr President, I cannot accept the reply of the Secretary of State. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the LMP benches.]]
u2023-05-02-85	Dear Parliament, Congressman did not accept the Deputy Minister's reply. I would like to inform you that, according to our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Mr Balázs Győrffy, representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture: what measures has the Government taken to eliminate the crisis in the crop market? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2023-05-02-86	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Deputy Minister, In recent years, few things have worried Hungarian farmers more than the Ukrainian grain imports falling on us, which basically only added to the problem that production costs have skyrocketed and that last year the Hungarian farming community has suffered an extremely severe drought damage. In the summer of 2022, the European Union unilaterally suspended the use of duty-free quotas and customs duties for Ukraine. This resulted in the free flow of Ukrainian products into the EU for months without control, so they flooded Central Europe and then Hungary. The Polish, Slovak, Romanian, Bulgarian and Hungarian markets are full of grain, oil seeds, rape, and this is a competition where the conditions are not equal, so we have very little chance of winning. Let us see that the EU's rigour, which is at the end of the day, does not in any way push the production of Ukrainian crops. They are authorised to produce genetically modified products and use a large number of pesticides that were banned in Hungary, the European Union, years or decades ago. We have health risks and economic losses to deal with. It is a much lower quality and much lower-price product, which is invading, thus putting domestic producers at a competitive disadvantage. In the case of EU Member States neighbouring Ukraine, this is exponentially true, and our problem is that this could be a substantial risk for the next period, including 2023, and serious market disturbances. The Government Parties and the Chamber of Agriculture welcome the government's ban on imports of Ukrainian grain, oil seeds and other agricultural products on 18 April and until 30 June and all related measures. The chamber working group set up to help remedy the situation would propose progress in two other areas. The first would be to empty the warehouses, because in a very short time, two months from now, the harvest will start with the autumn barley and rape, and we see that there may be serious storage capacity problems. The other is that the transit corridor should be properly operated and that it really plays the role of transit. I also consulted the president of the Polish Agricultural Chambers Association on the Ukrainian cereal situation and its economic impact. My friend Wiktor Smulewicz said that, just as in Hungary, Polish warehouses were full of grain, and that, by the way, their port capacities are mostly occupied [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] transit, so it's really hard for them to do anything about it. Dear Deputy Minister, I ask what measures the government will take to protect Hungarian farmers [[The president's ringing again.]] against the harmful effects of imports. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-02-87	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Deputy Minister Sándor Farkas responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2023-05-02-88	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman! The Russian-Ukrainian war, the misguided sanctions in Brussels, have really put the Hungarian agriculture into trying difficulties. [[15.40]] The situation is further complicated by the fact that the Member States bordering Ukraine, as you mentioned, are coming to our country with unprecedented quantities of grain and oil seeds. In addition, it should be noted that Ukraine's agriculture, which is fully free of EU duties, also exports large quantities of poultry, eggs and honey to the European market, which can also crowd out Hungarian products. The Hungarian government has, in coordination with the other relevant Central European Member States, and together since the autumn of 2022, been signalling the various forums of the Union, so that Ukraine's assistance should not cause market disruption and stock accumulation in our internal markets. At the end of March, the Hungarian, Polish, Slovak, Romanian Prime Minister and the Bulgarian President asked the President of the European Commission to take immediate action because of the unsustainable situation caused by increased imports of cereals from Ukraine. The Hungarian Government consistently takes the view that the EU's measures so far have not contributed to the planned functioning of the solidarity corridors, i.e. to the food supply of the African and Middle East population, but, on the contrary, to market disruptions in the Central European Member States. Since the European Commission has so far not provided any substantial assistance to Hungarian farmers, the Ministry of Agriculture has first imposed strict controls on cereals arriving on the domestic market from Ukraine and has further strengthened the control of imported products, paying particular attention to transit shipments in order to ensure that the consignments marked for transit leave the country and then the government has imposed a temporary ban on imports of the main cereals originating in Ukraine. The prohibition until 30 June 2023 shall include, inter alia, cereals, rape, sunflower seeds, flour, food oil, honey and certain meats. However, Hungary does not prohibit transit through the territory of these products, i.e. transit consignments are still authorised. As a result of the joint action of several countries, the gravity of the situation, the European Commission finally heard our requests on 28 April, since an agreement was reached at EU level on the ban on imports of cereals from Ukraine. Brussels has given rise to pressure from the five Member States, recognised the gravity of the market situation in the region and, in practice, allows imports from Ukraine of wheat, maize, sunflower and rape seeds to be prohibited by the application of an exceptional safeguard measure until the present exceptional market situation exists. Imports of these products into Hungary will therefore continue to be prohibited. The legislation on domestic import bans will be introduced when the action to be taken by Brussels begins, thus maintaining the continuity of the import ban. The European Commission is also proposing EUR 100 million of extraordinary support to farmers in border Member States, which would be distributed in proportion to the five Member States; I note that it is no small task. The Hungarian government is always in favour of Hungarian farmers. Even in this situation, it was only open to an agreement that guarantees their interests. Thank you very much for your attention and I ask for my reply to be accepted, honourable Member. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-02-89	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Deputy Minister's reply. You have the floor.
u2023-05-02-90	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Deputy Minister, Thank you for your reassuring words. It is good to see that we can continue to count on the government, and Hungarian farmers, Hungarian families and Hungarian consumers can be calm in this respect, that we will represent Hungarian interests in Brussels, and we will continue to draw attention to serious problems. At the same time, I would also like to draw into battle those green organisations in this situation who are very fond of the European farmers with different standards and expectations, and then, when food of totally uncertain origin flows to the European Union, they are somehow very quiet. I think it would be worth being a warrior right now, and being very strong right now. It can be seen that this solution, which Brussels has applied, is not helping starving countries, but is causing huge problems for the whole of Europe's agricultural economy, which may otherwise have serious supply problems. Mr. Deputy Minister. Thank you very much for your answer, which I accept. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-02-91	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Member accepted the reply of the Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, Hajnalka Juhász, a representative of KDNP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Economic Development:. What can the Government do to break down food prices? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2023-05-02-92	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The Russian-Ukrainian war, the failed sanctions tsunamis in Brussels, has brought energy prices to historical heights throughout Europe, which has played a role in the rapid increase in the food market throughout Europe. The government has always been committed to reducing people's burdens, which is why it introduced the reduction of the rent, fixed the fuel tariffs, and therefore introduced the interest rate stop. After food inflation started to ring in Hungary, the government launched a food price stop from 1 February 2022. According to the food price stop, basic foods such as crystal sugar, refined sunflower oil, chicken breasts can be purchased at consumer prices on 15 October 2021 and for dietary potatoes and eggs on 30 September 2022. Families are greatly helped by the government's price reduction measures, which are regularly attacked by the left. The best-known left is saying that we do not need a price cap, we do not need a reduction in the rent, we need to adapt to the market. According to the best-known left, therefore, if Hungarian families pay more for the price cap products, it is much better than being able to buy it at a cheaper price. Of course, there is no need to be surprised at the fact that the dollar left ignores the interests of the Hungarian people, just in exchange for the rolling dollars, to meet their men who told them. However, the government has made it clear on several occasions that unusual solutions are indeed justified in exceptional times, because these unusual solutions are extremely helpful to families. Therefore, the government will extend the food price stop until 30 June 2023 and will oblige businesses with significant turnover to launch actions in order to further reduce prices. Dear Secretary of State, KDNP agrees with any measures taken by the government to break inflation, as they make daily living easier for Hungarian families. That is why I am asking what the government is doing to break down food prices. Thank you very much for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-02-93	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary János Fónagy responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2023-05-02-94	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and War and sanctions have led to unprecedented inflation all over Europe. The government's aim is to protect families, pensioners, full employment, prevent recession and reduce inflation to one digit by the end of the year in the economic situation affected by sanctions. Restricting the price of vital food protects Hungarians from the inflation caused by sanctions so that they can buy basic foods at a fixed, low price. The government, as you said, extended the food stop until June 30th, and continues to introduce new tools, new consumer protection measures. In addition to the measures already taken, we will establish a common online price monitoring system with the Hungarian Competition Authority and a database with the Consumer Protection Authority to monitor the price changes of products in a targeted way in order to increase competition. Professional discussions were held with the leaders of the most important product councils, led by the Minister himself, in order to accurately identify the processes behind the price change of certain food materials. The government's measures work, inflation peaked in January, and the decline started following the trend in January-February. The figures show that the improvement is moderate, but continuous and trendy. Shops announce price reductions bidding on each other, which are increasingly reflected in data, resulting in a further decline in food prices in March. [[15.50]] On the basis of Greek and French examples, the government decided to introduce a new anti-inflationary instrument. It obliges retail shops with higher revenue to publish regular actions. Mandatory action will be introduced by 1 June 2023 at the latest. The main foods are classified in 20 categories of products, and the retail shops concerned must offer a freely selected product of each of the selected product categories at least 10% cheaper than the lowest price in the 30 days prior to the mandatory price reduction. Actions will take place on a weekly basis, which should not apply to price-stop products. Under the rules, the range of products in the relevant retail shops may vary from one product to another in the same week, and the range of products may vary weekly. This is particularly important in order to maintain competition. The list of products for the current beneficiary price shall be clearly indicated at the entrance of the shops and in the sale papers. In the interests of consumers, the government expects the new measure to stop overpriced and speculation by lowering prices and increasing competition, so that inflation may decrease further in the near future. With your attention, I ask you to accept my reply. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-02-95	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Congresswoman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor. Here you go.
u2023-05-02-96	Thank you very much, Mr President, and Mr Secretary of State for your detailed answer, because indeed the European Union and our country are facing extremely difficult economic challenges, when it is our job to reassure Hungarian families and Hungarian people and reduce the burden on them. I am particularly pleased, Mr State Secretary, that there are other measures beyond the food price stop, which will also follow the process of changing the price of products, which is how we can deal effectively with this issue. Thank you very much for your reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-02-97	Thank you very much, Congresswoman, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Lot. Erzsébet Németh, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the finance minister:, Why do Hungarian pensioners pay the price of fasting inflation in Orbán? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2023-05-02-98	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. Raging inflation in Orbán has given you a unique opportunity to fool Hungarian pensioners in the last two years. Foods, utilities and other essential products and services have been so historicly increased that in 2021 and 2022 you have been able to cheat a 1.5 percent increase in pensions, while the price of basic foods has doubled, even increased by 110 to 160 percent, such as sour cream, bread, cheese and eggs. You hear me, Secretary of State, you have completely deliberately underestimated fast inflation in both years in order to raise fewer pensions for this, all in the middle of a food increase that has not been seen since the Rakosi era. You haven't been able to comply with your own pension law, and you still owe that money to older people. In a petty way, they swallowed the money that, in addition to the brutal increase, perhaps many didn't notice. The fraud has gone so well, you might think that you want to continue this year, because inflation in Orbán has not eased, and the shopping basket of pensioners has increased by 52 percent in one year and the overhead has increased by seven times since last summer. Compared to this, they came up with a slightly 15% increase in January this year, although the brutal price increase also ate and devalued the 13th month pension. That money was spent most of the time on heating, electricity, food or petrol, many of them on pure survival, Mr. Secretary of State. They can bang their boobs, but old people's reserves are running out. There's something you should do. The rate of increase is so fast that the monthly pension adjustment to compensate for inflation in Orbán is no longer able to fulfil its role. Price increases are simply too fast, prices are rising too fast, so that the monthly allowance is sufficient to maintain a decent standard of living for pensioners. Hungarian pensioners can no longer lend the Orbán government because the reserves of the elderly have run out. They must be paid for by pensioners, which they are entitled to under the law, or they must be helped beyond that, otherwise inflation in Orbán will completely devour pensions. The question is, do you want to do anything? That is why I ask the Secretary of State: why should Hungarian pensioners lend the Orbán government and not pay them what is legally due to them? Why do they let inflation in Orbán destroy pensioners? [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2023-05-02-99	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Deputy Minister András Tállai responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2023-05-02-100	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If you'll allow me, I'll start with your political career first, and you'll understand why. You were a former Member of Parliament between 2002-2010, before that, a member of the Parliament of the Government. His boss was also called Ferenc Gyurcsány, his current boss, Ferenc Gyurcsány. You have experienced a crisis; as a pro-government Member, you have also experienced it. It is very interesting that at that time, as pro-government, he declared that he should be taken away from pensioners in the crisis, and you voted for it, and you did. They took away the 13th month pension from pensioners when there was a crisis in your administration. Not only did they take away the 13th month pension, they gave me a lower pension increase than the price increase. But you were enlightened after 13 years. He was enlightened when he became an opposition representative and was appointed shadow minister. The problem is that it may have become clear that in crisis and now we are talking only about pensioners, we must not take it away from pensioners, but we must give what the current government, the Fidesz government, is doing, but it has not learned to count in 13 years, so I am helping you now. You're accusing the government of underestimating inflation and cheating off the pension increase. It also states that it did this in 2021 and 2022, and the government is preparing for this in 2023. In 2021 the following was the case: 3 percent increase in January, 0.6 percent increase in June and 1.2 percent increase in November, so the annual pension increase was 4.9 percent. KSH's consumer price index is 4.6 percent. There is 0.3 percent between the two in favour of the increases, and if you add half of the 13th month pension, which is more than 4 percent, you can't really say that the government has cheated on any pension increases. But let's look at 2022: 5 percent in January, 3.9 percent in July, 4.5 percent in November and 14.5 percent in annual inflation. If we add the entire 13th month pension to this, which is a 8.3 percent increase, then it is obvious that during crisis times, wartimes, even in times of penalty inflation, the rate of increase in pensions increases significantly, increases... that is, higher than the rate of increase in prices. And so it was in January 2023 when 2.5 million pensioners received a 15 percent pension increase, and, of course, this year also received the 13th month pension. After 2010, the government undertook to preserve the value of pensions and to preserve the real value of pensions. It has done this every year by 2022 and will continue to do so in 2023. [[16.00]] So your accusation is completely unfounded, I don't know why you say such things in Parliament. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-05-02-101	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll ask Congresswoman to accept the Deputy Minister's reply. You have the floor.
u2023-05-02-102	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Of course, I do not accept Mr Secretary of State's reply, not only because I think he has missed some important items. Ferenc Gyurcsány, who I am proud of, gave me once again seven times, Mr. Secretary of State: seven times he gave me a 13th month pension, which, by the way, you obviously know as Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance, does not count on a pension increase. So don't prove this year that pensioners have raised their pensions in excess of inflation or at least with inflation. In January 2023, if you had complied with your own law, the average pension would not be HUF 208 thousand as it is now, but HUF 264 thousand. And what a difference, Secretary of State, if a pensioner had to make a living of 264 thousand forints instead of 208 thousand forints! Obviously, you don't understand that with your Secretary of State's salary. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So I can only tell you that in Hungary the shadow government is the only hope that pensioners will also receive a decent pension. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2023-05-02-103	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. One minute to rejoinder. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Deputy Minister's reply. I would like to inform you that a decision will be taken in accordance with our agreed agenda on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Róbert Dudás, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister:. How long do you intend to keep yourself in power with fear instead of real government? It's an address. Congressman Róbert Hondas has the floor.
u2023-05-02-104	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Before 2010, Viktor Orbán criticized the then leadership, the then government, and said that the then leadership was looking for a scapegoat, a scapegoat accused of various things and then repeated it to boredom, thus achieving the desired effect in humans. He also used a quote, and I now quote from him: "Hate is the most basic human feeling, based on hatred, and hatred must destroy the enemy. Well, then he criticized this kind of behavior, but instead of changing it in substance and systematically, your government would have changed it, no, they've improved it to perfection, and I can safely say they're going to top it. I'm telling you this because in Covid's time, in the time of the epidemic, when there were many diseases all over Europe and across the world and in Hungary, they were wondering in the middle of Covid how to benefit from the candidates who applied for the vaccine so that they could build a database and then continue to keep in touch with them, they could constantly bomb them with propaganda. So they set up a central database, they got the contact details, and everything's fine from here on out, and no one's gonna check the government anyway. For example, in February of last year, in the middle of the campaign, unsolicited letters from the government's information page, unsolicited e-mails that blackened the opposition, otherwise false and obvious lies. But the result was an election victory based on lies. Now they're using these databases to make themselves pro-peace again, and everyone else to the contrary. But it's a lie again! No one ever wanted or wanted a war, peace is the first and most important interest for all of us. It is difficult to decide what is more serious: hatred or misuse of personal data. But one thing is certain: the subscribers didn't ask for propaganda at Covid's time, they didn't ask for lies, but they get it all the time, because it's in the interest of the state party. It's pure communism! But there is a greater sin: the fear of fear, the raising of fear against something that the individual cannot influence, the inability to defend himself, the fear of fear in order for a leader or a leading party to retain his power. You threaten people with the proximity of a world war and consciously scare ten million people to focus on survival alone, and when that reaction is in people, you do not deal with education, health, food prices. Mr. Secretary, how long are you planning on keeping this lie?
u2023-05-02-105	Thank you. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Csaba Dömötör, Deputy Minister, responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2023-05-02-106	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, The government considers it important to state its position on priority issues. You do this in many ways: press conference, information campaigns, or even through the newsletter you object to. You also object to the fact that in one of these e-mails, the government threatened me with World War III, as you put it. Honourable Congressman, The fact is that there is a war going on in the neighbouring country, and so far 39 countries have decided to deliver deadly equipment to the battlefield. So from here on out, this is no longer a local, bilateral conflict, and there's every chance of it becoming a world war. If you observe him more closely, the argument that carries or calls for weapons is similar to that in 1914: if we send weapons quickly, if we send as many weapons as possible, the war will be over soon. We disagree with that, because we believe that the war will be over soon if peace talks begin. We also consider it important to present the government position because there are other positions. For example, the European Parliament would send many, many weapons and does not want peace talks. This is a position that is, by the way, close to yours, who would have sent weapons and soldiers, even if they were trying to deny it. If you're going to try to deny it again, then I recommend to everyone how you voted for the peace resolution a few days ago. The whole left practically didn't support it. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Along with Viktor Orbán!]] You may not be the case now, but the diversity of positions and opinions is at the heart of democracy. We believe it is important for citizens to know the position of all public actors and then decide what they support and what they do not. Posted e-mails can play a role in this. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that only those who have given special permission to do so will receive such an e-mail, and if someone does not wish to receive such information, they will be able to unsubscribe in accordance with the legal possibilities. I'm just going to add quietly that this exercise is in stark contrast to your practice. In the campaign, left-wing parties sent unsolicited mass messages to citizens without giving their contact details, and the company to which foreign subsidies were spilled was behind it. If you really thought it was that important, if you really thought data protection aspects were so important, you wouldn't have done such an exercise, or at least you would have shown us that you would have called on the parties to stop and eliminate the practice. But more importantly, the government will continue to take every opportunity to present its position on peace within our borders and in the international arena. The fact that left-wing parties more supportive of drift into war do not like this is something that we are not surprised by. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-02-107	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Deputy Minister's reply. You have the floor.
u2023-05-02-108	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Allow me to begin by saying that it is false again, because no one ever wanted to send a weapon or soldiers to the Ukrainian front. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Yes, you can. Read the president of Jobbik, it's your own president. Csaba Dömör: No, no!]] Please don't say that. I was hoping that I wouldn't get a propaganda response, but I did. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: How professional was the question, huh?]] You were at the Holy Mass at Kossuth Square on Sunday. Allow me to quote from what he has said, and I very much hope that you will accept it, understand it, and indeed, once again, I hope you will. Pope Francis said: "The shepherd is neither a robber nor a thief, he does not abuse his role, he does not suppress the flock in his care, he does not steal the space from his lay brothers, he does not exercise rigid authority. This should be the basis for any politician, especially the government, to work on. Thank you very much, I cannot accept the answer. [[Dr. László György Lukács applauds.]]
u2023-05-02-109	Dear Parliament, Congressman did not accept the Deputy Minister's reply. I will inform you that a decision will be taken in accordance with our agreed agenda on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Energy: What does the government do? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman. [[16.10]]
u2023-05-02-110	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear Minister, We know from battery production that there is enormous pollution and environmental pressures. They are incredibly loud, they emit heat, we know that there is serious pollution in the area of battery factories already operating in Hungary, and their operation requires the total water consumption of a medium-sized Hungarian city, while I believe that they produce the same amount of sewage. In the case of the Debrecen battery plant, if only the first stage of the planned investment is achieved, the daily water consumption of the plant would be 3300 cubic metres per day, up to 6 thousand cubic metres in peak period. On a monthly level, the factory would consume as much as 30,000 cars, and at peak hours as 60,000 families. Plus, their energy needs are amazing. According to the national battery strategy, Hungary's energy needs are increasing by 30 percent due to the building of battery factories, in a country where we have to import 90 percent of gas, 30 percent of electricity. The energy demand of a larger battery plant can be up to 800 megawatts, corresponding to the production of a Paks block and a half. We know these things, we have repeatedly drawn attention to them; we have not received any substantive answers to our questions or comments. For my part, I would like to draw attention to another major problem of battery enrichment. According to experts, each battery produces as much waste as its own mass. According to the current European Union regulations, the recycling and processing of batteries belongs to the first European Union distributor, i.e. the factory, the Hungarian battery factory. It is an extended manufacturer's guarantee that this is the key term for this, and that is what you seem either do not want or do not want to be aware of or do not want to inform the public about. More specifically, they don't want to inform the public about this either. This extended manufacturer's guarantee means that the manufacturer must ensure that the battery is recovered and recycled. This recycling is very difficult due to lithium batteries, currently only 5 percent of spent batteries are processed in the EU, while by 2025 it is estimated that there will be more than 10 million tonnes of spent batteries in the Community. Non-recycled quantities are considered hazardous waste, I'm sure that's not a question for you either. This extended producer responsibility, according to EU legislation, actually means that this waste processing will also be carried out at home, while there is no adequate workforce to deal with hazardous waste. My question, based on the above, is simple [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] why don't you stop us from being a landfill for Europe in the context of battery conversion? Thank you, I look forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2023-05-02-111	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The speaking time limit remains unchanged for three minutes. Dear Parliament, Deputy Minister Zsófia Koncz responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2023-05-02-112	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I think that, contrary to what has been said on this subject, we have informed the public several times, and I have a feeling that, somehow, Congressman, he does not want to acknowledge the facts, but I would like to repeat myself. In the European Union, both in force and in the future, on the basis of the so-called extended producer responsibility regulatory principle, the take-back and treatment of battery waste in a given Member State should be provided by the person who first placed the battery on the market, irrespective of where it was manufactured. I think we've talked about this several times here, but we can do it again and again anyway. According to the relevant legislation, compliance with the obligations is the responsibility of the person who places them on the market. The 2006 EU Directive and the related domestic government regulation also cover batteries and accumulators, the receipt, collection, transport and handling of waste from them. Accordingly, according to the Environmental Impact Assessment and the Government Decree on the Single Environmental Authorisation Procedure, the approval of battery factories should be subject to an assessment of the treatment of waste generated by battery production. As we have already said several times in the Parliament, investments can only be made in Hungary according to the strictest environmental rules, which is also true for battery factories. However, we still have not received an answer from the Member, or practically from the left-wing fellow Members, as to why, in addition to DK, Jobbik, Everyone's Hungary, MSZP, Momentum and Dialogue, LMP participated in the opposition press conference in Dunaújváros in 2021, where the government was criticized for not building a battery plant. By the way, your faction has said that it is a shocking government intent, not because such a factory is being built, but because it is not built there by a factory. I think 2021, however I look at it, is not a perspective that would cover a great deal of time, so in a very short period of time we are talking about a very sudden change of opinion. However, we also need to talk about what trends can be found in the European Union. From 2035 onwards, environmentally friendly cars can be manufactured and sold in the European Union, and I do not even remember you criticizing the EU Commissioner for the European Green Agreement on the Left, Frans Timmermans, when calling on the European Union to produce mass electric accumulators. The electric vehicles are one of the driving forces of a rapidly emerging global energy economy, and they are transforming history around the world in the automotive industry, said the Director of the International Energy Agency. According to the agency's records, more than 10 million electric cars were sold worldwide in 2022, and this year they are expected to increase by 35 percent. With this sale, the share of electric cars will be 18 percent. It should also be pointed out that the Hungarian automotive and automotive industry provides a very, very important backbone for the Hungarian economy and provides a secure livelihood for hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families. I think that today there is a technological competition in the European Union and, by the way, throughout the world, and participation in this competition is very important. Of course, on all matters, environmental rules must be complied with, so I ask the Member to accept my answer. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-02-113	Thank you very much, Madam Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I will ask Congressman Csárdi to accept the reply of the Deputy Minister. You have the floor.
u2023-05-02-114	Thank you very much for the floor. I don't accept the answer. [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]] You have many factual errors, Mrs Secretary of State, so I would like to inform the Secretary of State that if the battery comes from outside the European Union, she is right, but if this battery is produced in the European Union, then the first to place it on the market is not the car factory, but the battery manufacturer, and I ask you nicely, but as a result, all the loads will be imposed on Hungary. I think I have to answer your suggestions, because it is no coincidence that they are trying to make the public hearing impossible. On April 27th, a government decree stated that a public hearing could be held without those involved. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] But in addition, his indiscretion goes to the point that he doesn't know about our open letter to Mr Timmermans. Thank you very much.
u2023-05-02-115	Unfortunately, this is where our timeframe expired, thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that Congressman did not accept the Deputy Minister's reply, so that, according to our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Attila Barcza, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Economic Development:, How does the Government help Hungarian families and businesses in a difficult economic situation? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-05-02-116	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, World War Three is a real threat, the conflict is worrying, and our security is at risk. In these dire times, it is important for Hungary to commit to peace, which is why we adopted the pro-peace resolution submitted by Fidesz and KDNP representatives, which was not voted by the representatives of the dollar left. [[16.20]] The vote therefore turned out that the left led by Gyurcsány was and will remain pro-war. They still do not represent Hungarian interests, but carry out what their financiers expect of them in exchange for the millions of dollars. The left is in favour of continuing the war, and they have proved that the will of the financiers is more important to them than the interests of the Hungarian people. In order to protect the country, as has not been the case so far, they are still not expected, but they are still working on how they can harm Hungary in Brussels. Over the last two months, new sanctions have been announced in Brussels, and it has become clear that energy prices do not return to pre-war levels, sanctions in Brussels and high energy prices have brought inflation, resulting in Hungary spending HUF 4000 billion more on energy in 2022 than in 2021. Brussels took this money out of the pockets of the Hungarians with these sanctions. [[Gergely Harvesto: You shouldn't have bought gas from Putin.]] The civilian government has already taken a number of measures for families, businesses and the protection of jobs. As an example, in 2023 the reduced price will remain until the average consumption, so a family saves HUF 181 thousand a month, which is unique in Europe. It is important to mention here that the Hungarian government spends most of its money on public support through reduced prices throughout the European Union, thereby removing a heavy burden on Hungarians. [[Gergely Harvesting: Imaginary!]] The government increased the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, increasing the minimum wage by three times between 2010 and 2023, resulting in higher average wages in Hungary today than during the Gyurcsánys period. The 13th month pension has been restored and paid so that the budget deficit will not be increased. There's a residential interest stop in place that protects 350,000 families, and there's a interest stop on student loans that protects 200,000 students. On this basis, I ask the honourable Secretary of State how the Hungarian Government helps families and businesses in these difficult economic situations. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-02-117	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, János Fónagy State Secretary, Deputy Minister, responds to the interpellation, and you have the floor.
u2023-05-02-118	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, As a result of the war next door and the wrong sanctions imposed on it, [[Gergely Harvestó: What you voted for!]] Europe has experienced an energy and inflation crisis and prices have skyrocketed. The Hungarian government is doing everything it can to ensure that the Hungarian people do not pay the price of war and sanctions. The government aims to protect full employment, prevent recession and reduce inflation to one digit by the end of the year, ensure the protection of families, pensioners, small and medium-sized enterprises, in the economic situation affected by war and sanctions. To this end, some 20 measures were adopted earlier by the government, of which ten are protecting businesses, jobs, and ten other measures are protecting families, pensioners. The data show that the measures work, protect full employment, and that government measures also help create new jobs. In order to protect businesses and jobs, we announced support for small and medium-sized enterprises active in the energy intensive manufacturing industry, the Széchenyi card programme, the factory rescue programme and the related loan guarantee programme. The measures include the Reindustrialisation programme of Gábor Baross, currently with a budget of HUF 1000 billion and an extended interest rate stop for SMEs. We have doubled access to work, with 50 percent of the labour costs being supported by the company that hires unemployed jobseekers for six months or more. The government decided to reduce the current price per kilowatt hour from 165 HUF to 70 HUF above the average consumption for micro-enterprises in order to maintain the benefits to date. The extension of the reduction of the costs is necessary so that the economy does not have to pay unbearable burdens and the operation of small businesses is fundamentally influenced by energy prices. The Hungarian families are protected from increased overhead prices due to sanctions, and the reduced price will remain in 23 as long as the average consumption is complete. We have raised the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, the minimum wage has tripled between 2010-23, and wages have increased 2.7 times compared to 2010. We have introduced a food price stop, an online price monitoring system has been set up to increase price competition and reduce inflation, and the government, with its latest action, is obliging retail shops with significant revenue to launch weekly actions for 20 product products. Thanking you for your attention, please accept my reply. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-02-119	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman if he'll take the answer. You have the floor.
u2023-05-02-120	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, These measures also show the difference between the civilian government and the left. During its governance, the left was only annoying families and entrepreneurs, raising taxes, leaving hundreds of thousands without work, and eliminating 200,000 jobs. On the other hand, the civilian government has done everything in its power to protect the standard of living of homes, jobs and families. Thank you for your answer, which I accept, and I ask that the Hungarian Government continue to do everything possible to ensure the living standards and livelihood of Hungarian people with similar, good measures. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-02-121	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It's 16 hours 27 minutes, the interpellation hearing is over, and now the Parliament is going to discuss immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "When? It's an address. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the head of the DK Group said in advance that he would ask for a personal reply, so that he will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate questions due to his absence. It is now up to the next representative of the DK fraction to ask a question. Dear Parliament, Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: When can they expect him? It's an address. In view of the fact that the head of the DK faction did not make a preliminary statement on the personal response to this immediate question, this should therefore be considered as not to be a personal response by the representative who asked the question on the basis of the House Rule of Decision. It's time for Congressman Gergely Harvesto. You have the floor.
u2023-05-02-122	I'm in a bit of a tough spot because Mr. President didn't tell me who was going to answer.
u2023-05-02-123	The question is, of course, answered by Balázs Orbán, the Prime Minister's political director. You have the floor.
u2023-05-02-124	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Political Director, In my constituency, Kőbány, the Bajcsy-Zsilinszky Hospital, before Easter, workers, nurses, surgical assistants, caregivers and other medical workers had a very unpleasant surprise. What happened was that many of them received nearly 200,000 forints less. We're not talking about well-paid people here. We're talking about their salary, the substantial part of their real income, sometimes the majority they didn't get this month. The reason for this is that the hospital's management has decided to change the system of accounting with the working time limit without any consultation or prior notice, and contrary to the previous practice, where these otherwise well estimated overtime hours have been paid on a basic basis, because there is a shortage of staff here too, so the employees actually carry out the tasks in a pre-planned, overtime, and they have always been paid on a basic basis in time, but now I say once again, without consultation and prior notice, the Director General of the hospital has decided that the others' salary is available and that the payment of this amount has been postponed by a month. [[16.30]] In the context of fast inflation in Orbán, European record inflation in Orbán, I do not need to say that this type of measure has very serious consequences for the workers concerned. Some people can't pay their rent, some people can't pay their credit, some people just couldn't buy for Easter because of your irresponsibleness. Several have resigned, many have considered collective termination, so this kind of carelessness and nonsense about patient care [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] , Stone Mine and XVII. is also a serious threat to the health care of people living in the district. When will you correct this mistake, Mr. Secretary? I'm sorry, Mr. Political Director.
u2023-05-02-125	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Balázs Orbán, the political director of the Prime Minister. You have the floor.
u2023-05-02-126	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, For the Government of Hungary, it is crucial to respect healthcare workers, and this must also be expressed in a material sense, as opposed to the time of your governance. For this reason, in 2023 about HUF 2800 billion was available in health care, which was HUF 1000 billion more than in 2010. It is also due to the fact that in recent years we have been able to implement one of Hungary's largest wage-raise programmes for doctors and otherwise for healthcare workers. Doctors' average wages increased by two and a half times by 2020, followed by a break-through historical wage increase at the same time as gratuity. The wages of health professionals have more than doubled since 2010. The last decision was made in January 2022 on an additional 30 percent increase in the labour force's wages. Another increase in nursing wages will take place in two steps, with 1 July 2023 and 1 July 2024 in the second phase. Here we propose a uniform 18 percent basic wage increase at the first stage. As regards the professional issues related to the relevant health law, I can recommend that you contact the Ministry of Interior and the Government responsible for the health care sector, who, as always, are at your disposal. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-02-127	I thank the director for his reply. I'll give you the floor in a one-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-05-02-128	Dear Political Director, I'd be happy to go to the medical government if there was one, but you've stopped it. By the way, I understand that you are not touched by the fate of those people who, by the way, had to give up half of their salary, since the foundation you run received HUF 36 billion from MOL's superextraprofit, i.e. the extremely high petrol prices paid by taxpayers. Your employees don't have such problems as, of course, the Secretary of State, with their significantly increased salary. But I have to say that for people who, in addition to the wage increases on paper and the inflation that is actually very real, have daily livelihood problems, and now have not received much of their monthly salary, they do not take this thing so easily. I would like to ask you when to hold those responsible for this scandal and when to pay the outstanding wages. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2023-05-02-129	Dear Parliament, Mr. Balázs Orbán, political director, has a rejoinder. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-02-130	Unfortunately, there is no requirement for Members of Parliament to know the legislation, which is why you can still be a Member of Parliament. The Law on the Listing of Ministries and the so-called Statute for Government Structure provide precise guidance to all Hungarian law-knowing citizens that the responsibility for health belongs to the Ministry of the Interior, but compliance with the law is mandatory, and I would like to draw your attention to that. I would like to say one thing here, even if this was perhaps a political commitment on your part, I would encourage health workers to do one thing: if they have any legal issues, they should turn to the health government and not turn to you, because you have given them only a wage reduction and dismissal; everyone still remembers this. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-02-131	Thank you very much, Director, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Dávid Bedő, Ferenc Gelencsér, Szabolcs Szabó and Márton Tompos, representatives of the Momentum, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question. It's an address. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the Head of the Momentum Group said in advance that he would ask for a personal reply, so that he will have to answer in the hour of the next immediate questions due to Mr. Prime Minister's absence. Dear Parliament, Anna Orosz, representative of Momentum, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. This is how Hungarian children are protected? It's an address. In view of the fact that the head of the Momentum's faction did not make a preliminary statement on the personal response to this immediate question, it should therefore be considered that the representative who asked the question does not ask for a personal reply on the basis of the House Rule of Decision. It's for Congresswoman Anna of Russia.
u2023-05-02-132	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Secretary. Last Monday, students, parents and teachers protested outside the Home Office building. They are the ones who speak with courage and a straight spine against your destructive actions. This time, students stood up against a measure called the Status Act, which is mostly a vengeance law against teachers, thus children. We could call it a reckoning because the teachers dared to stand up for the school cause. In the evening, the protesters marched from the Ministry's building to the Carmelite monastery. And why there? Because, in fact, every important issue is decided by one person - the one who sits in the Carmelite. The status law is decided in the same way as the current, selected lies of the Fidesz-propaganda, and even the amnesty of György Budaházy. And in order not to have to face the consequences of your decisions, you're surrounded by cordons, you're separated from the people you're supposed to represent. Your response to a legitimate protest in all its elements is: police line and tear gas, without prior warning, brutal physical action against protesting children and young people and, of course, four Members. In Fidesz-propaganda, the term "child protection" is more common than the use of binding words. I ask, therefore, with interest, Mr Balázs Orbán: is that what must now be meant by the protection of children? Is this how they protect Hungarian children? If they stand up for their future, for education, for democracy, for schools, then you wait for them with a police line and then blow tear gas into their faces without warning? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Just for the record, let's be clear on what we're expecting in the future.
u2023-05-02-133	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Balázs Orbán, the political director of the Prime Minister. You have the floor.
u2023-05-02-134	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and [[Intercoms: Microphone!]]
u2023-05-02-135	Can I have the clock back, please?
u2023-05-02-136	Thank you very much. I apologize. Dear House, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The prestige of teachers is key to Hungary's Government, which is why we are working on a new career model, which would now provide for a performance-based wage instead of age-based wages. We ask that you support the government's ideas in this regard. In view of the fact that one of the most important parts of the demands made in recent months is a teacher's wage increase, on which we agree, and that if this career model was accepted and your left-wing and Brussels allies stopped blocking the EU funds due to Hungary, teachers' wages would increase by 75% overall in three years. Thus, the average salary of a Hungarian educator would be almost HUF 800,000. [[16.40]] At the moment, this would require the adoption of the law and the cessation of your obstructive political activities. What you have said about freedom of expression, I would only draw attention to a simple basis. In Hungary, there is the rule that it should be indicated, that violence should not be allowed. We ask everyone to comply with this simple rule of law. I would like to draw attention to one thing: it doesn't seem very logical to me to disrupt a construction site that the world has never seen, but the violent left has also introduced this in Hungarian political culture. We are also interested to see where this can develop. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-02-137	Thank you very much, Director, for your reply. In return, I will give the woman representing the floor within a one-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2023-05-02-138	First of all, I find it quite funny that while you have been talking for 13 years about how the Union should not interfere with our internal affairs, you are now going to beg for the money that should have been given to teachers a long time ago. The law you refer to as saving teachers, according to an AKG history teacher, is more like the 1907 servant law, except that the latter not only fixed the obligations of the servants, but also those of the farmers. The cordon has been illegally pissed off, serving nothing but to separate you from the people you're supposed to represent. That's why the Momentum fraction breaks it down over and over again. Thank you very much.
u2023-05-02-139	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the principal. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-02-140	Thank you. There is one thing I would like to suggest to you: we understand everything, but keep an eye on the safety regulations for the next period. If you may need a protective helmet in this regard, we will be happy to do so. I don't know if it's purple vane, but it's definitely yellow. I have noticed that Congresswoman has used the term begging for EU funds. This is a total misunderstanding, and I would like to strongly reject that. These are the sources that Hungary is entitled to because this was agreed upon at the time of our country's accession to the European Union. It's not charity! This approach is a fundamental problem. These sources, which come to our country, do not arrive in Hungary because you are, in fact, admitting to doing mine work in the last period. They're doing political minework. I don't think that's acceptable. And not from our point of view, because we take note of this, but from the point of view of Hungarian teachers, Hungarian students and parents of Hungarian children. So I'm asking you to reconsider your policy. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-02-141	Thank you very much, Mr political director, for your reply. Dear Parliament, István Hiller, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister for Culture and Innovation an immediate question:. What do you think about this? Questions about higher education. Due to the absence of Minister Eszter Vitalyos, State Secretary, Deputy Minister, was entitled to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2023-05-02-142	I accept, Mr. President.
u2023-05-02-143	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-05-02-144	Madam Deputy Minister, Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! It happened a few weeks ago that a university professor in his field, whose researcher for decades, internationally renowned, wanted to give a lecture at his own university. Let us be honest, so far it is not news that should be displayed at the plenary session of the Hungarian Parliament and turn to the government. What is more, that this man, by the way, had an earlier elected rector of his university, once again, as a professor of chemistry, did not just come up with the subject he wanted to deal with in a lecture, but he has been an instructor, expert, international acquaintance for decades. It happens to be connected to the battery, the battery companies, but it's not because you want to set up battery factories now, but because it's been your specialty for decades. The lecture of this man, this professor, was banned by the dean of the university in view of the fact that they do not give room for a program where there are active policy issues. But this man has been doing this for decades! In addition, a few days earlier, a minister of the government, Minister Martin the Great, gave a lecture on the economic processes of war and sanctions at the same university; of course he could. What do you think of that? [[Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2023-05-02-145	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Eszter Vitalyos, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2023-05-02-146	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, A few weeks ago, if I remember correctly, we had a chat here about immediate questions, when we discussed the change of model in higher education. It became clear to me then, I would not say completely, but that our professional opinion differs from the present and future of Hungarian higher education, that is quite certain. I do not dispute that earlier, under your governance, state-owned universities and colleges in Hungary, as they have done in recent decades, have done everything in order to ensure high-quality education, but we believe that the hopes they have had could not be fulfilled, that they have failed to achieve a significant position improvement in the previous model, so we considered the change justified. I am truly sorry that you, as an educational professional, expressed your disagreement with the need for change, disagree with the change of model, even though there is a clear statistical evidence of the successful change in the university model, and there has been a competitive turnaround in Hungarian higher education. We can conclude that Hungarian higher education now operates autonomously, predictablely and transparently, and that very competitive higher education institutions have been established, as demonstrated by the fact that 126 449 have applied to one of the Hungarian higher education institutions in the framework of the now fully electronic admission procedure. This shows that the recruitment system has increased the number of applicants by 27 percent, and despite all baseless attacks, more than 29 percent have chosen modeled universities. In my next answer, I will come to the second part of your question. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-02-147	Thank you very much, Madam Deputy Minister, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2023-05-02-148	Madam Deputy Minister, I am very pleased, although there was only a part of my question, and consequently it is only worth getting to the point that there was no second part. The thing is, I asked him: when a professor had gained great authority in his profession for decades, he wanted to give his lecture, he was told that he couldn't keep it because he didn't keep it because he was an active political player, while when he started dealing with this issue, he was not an active political professor at all, and three years ago he didn't have an actuator policy, but he was still dealing with it. A few days earlier, the Minister of the Government gave a presentation entitled The Impact of War and Sanctions on Economic Processes, and unfortunately, there was nothing more topical than that. This is not a question of autonomy. It's not a question of autonomy! It's something else. I'd like to hear from you how you feel about this. Thank you very much.
u2023-05-02-149	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I will give the floor to the Deputy Minister in return. Here you go.
u2023-05-02-150	Honourable Congressman, I'm just getting to the part I just mentioned. You are criticizing the professional decision of the Dean of the Faculty of Science and Technology of the University of Debrecen on a planned seminar. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the University of Debrecen is also a modelled university, a so-called foundational university. [[16.50]] The Gróf Tisza István Foundation for the University of Debrecen, the Gróf Tisza István University of Debrecen Foundation and the XIII. year 2021 on the application of assets to the University of Debrecen. Law No. 1 Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the Board of the Foundation has been designated for the exercise of the entire range of founding rights. In view of all of this, and in particular in view of the academic autonomy that the Left has repeatedly expressed, this case does not concern the government body, namely the Ministry, and we consider it an autonomous decision of the University. Please accept my answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-02-151	Thank you very much for the Deputy Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, Brenner Koloman and László György Lukács, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Prime Minister? It's an address. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the leader of the Jobbik faction said in advance that he would ask for a personal reply, so that the Prime Minister will have to answer in the hour of the next immediate questions due to his absence. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: "What do you think of this, Minister? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári was entitled to respond. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2023-05-02-152	I accept the deputy responder, Mr President, thank you very much.
u2023-05-02-153	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-05-02-154	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that this speech is not an anti-emergency and non-emergency speech, and we all pay tribute to the work that is being done in the period of the epidemic or in the context of the general medical on-call conversion, but, in addition to our concern for rescue workers and patients, it is important that we politicians who form public opinion and public opinion talk about issues that arise as problems. In the last few days, weeks, the arrival case, the unfortunate incident in Budaörs, has ruffled the moods. One is an older case, perhaps more than one year, in which the family claims that the ambulance arrived so late that their relative basically bled out during transport to the hospital. In that case, he'll be waiting for a court order to decide who really made the mistake. But there is also a more recent case in which a doctor shared his view that his next of kin had been delayed in the rescue service. As an outsider, it is obviously very difficult to decide on this, and we cannot always expect a court procedure, a long court procedure, to see what the reasons or reasons really were. That is why it arises, and that is why the government should be asked to see and have the opportunity to establish a national organisation, or to have a body that can objectively judge the conditions for the work of the rescue service, the quality of the work done there, so that it is not only a process and a decision-making point within the system, as they are regularly in dispute or conflict with relatives or other organisations, but also someone who can objectively draw conclusions from it precisely because of this, Mr Secretary of State, that we are also protecting rescue workers and helping to make decisions in these matters. So, does the government intend to set up such an organisation, see the possibility for an independent organisation to carry out the professional practice over the rescue service, and if so, in what form can this be achieved? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2023-05-02-155	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2023-05-02-156	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think we can all speak with appreciation about the activities of the Hungarian rescue service. It is not clear in all countries that there is a national and state emergency service, where public and private actors are involved in the rescue, there are many countries where there is no uniform national rescue service. We have a telephone number, a national system, so digitally monitored; this can be said in a few countries, at least not in a good part of the countries, even in Europe. If you look at the amount of money to be spent on the Hungarian budget at the beginning of our administration, you can see that it was HUF 27 billion. If you look at this year's budget, it is 65 billion forints against this 27 billion forints that we can now spend on the National Rescue Service. And when someone looked at the average age of ambulances ten years ago, he saw that the average age of ambulances was well over eight, more than eight and a half years, and in recent years it moved around five years, slightly over five years. So, thanks to God, the rescue service's machinery park has been renewed, the phone system has been renewed, all calls have been recorded today, all calls can be tracked, and in all cases you can see what people who have called in to the emergency services number 112 have said, the dispatcher has made the right decision, he has been able to provide assistance there, the ambulance has started in due time, it is very important in my opinion, and it is a guarantee for everyone that every situation can be reconstructed precisely by the words, and that the rescue service can withstand this test. In the case you mentioned, it was a case where someone didn't call the central telephone number, but another phone number, it was a loss of time. Everyone is asked to call the central 112 number, not to try to contact ambulances in any other way, because in such cases, all time is lost, so 112 is called, and in relation to the phones there, I think there is the highest quality management system, and, well, in the healthcare system, countless patient rights and funding control systems are already in place. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-02-157	I thank the Deputy Minister for his reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2023-05-02-158	Thank you very much. I continue to propose that there should be a monitoring and supervision body within the organisation system, and we continue to support this and recommend it to the government. But there is a proposal for a solution that the profession regularly raises in relation to the problems of ambulance workers and rescue workers, and that is their pay. It is clear, and the Jobbik-Conservatives are also determined that normal wages are needed, and normal Hungary is needed. Wage planning is also important because it is used to keep them at work, to motivate them to work in better working conditions. What we want is for this pay gap to take place within the European Union, so keeping our membership of the European Union will involve rescue workers in a wage-receiving process that can actually give them a high and close to European conditions. On the contrary, you want Hungary to be led out of the European Union by the Prime Minister, we believe that this is dangerous. It is in our interest to stay in Europe, because Europe is our security and rescue workers know that we need normal Hungary and normal wages. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2023-05-02-159	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The Deputy Minister shall be rejoined. Here you go.
u2023-05-02-160	Honourable Congressman, I think that rescue workers deserve more respect than Jobbik should make such a party political speech, but if you are going in this direction, then the answer will be the same. Therefore, Jobbik's leader, who is burning the EU flag, asks the government not to lead Hungary out of the European Union. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Your predecessor Novák is already sitting in Mi Hazan!]] Mr. Congressman, you are! Burning the flag of the European Union [[Róbert Répássy: Béla Kovács! István Hollik intervenes.]] Your representative was Béla KáGé, Béla Kovács, so, in fact, if someone was at risk of representing European or non-European values in this area, [[Dr. László György Lukács: I was not represented in anything!]] Is that the Jobbik, and the Jobbik, the EU flag burner, lined up in the name of Jobbik, when you told us to be members, or are you free? You're paraphrasing us to be prisoners, aren't you? A quote that membership does not mean freedom. Honourable Congressman, You have such an opinion, and you have such an opinion. Thank God the Government of Hungary is stable, obviously with a European commitment. [[Dr. László György Lukács: No, he wants it out of the EU!]] When you were burning an EU flag, we argued in favour of membership of the European Union, we are part of this European Union, and we are trying to benefit the Hungarian people from these benefits. All we ask is that what Ferenc Gyurcsány said Csaba Molnár said that you are working in the European Union to prevent us from accessing our own resources, so that you can suspend it for a little while, whether for healthcare workers or for those working in education. [[Rebecca Szabó intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] the necessary resources are available. Please do not prevent this further in Brussels. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-02-161	I thank the Deputy Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, Dóra Dúró, representative of Mi Hazank, Vice-President of the House, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: "Don't pour oil on the fire in education. It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári was entitled to respond. I ask the congresswoman, she accepts the person who is responding. [[Dóra Dúró: Yes.]] Yeah. You have the floor.
u2023-05-02-162	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The government's various education policy decisions have been accompanied by violent protests for years, the primary reason for these protests is the low wages for which teachers work in Hungary every day. It is memorable that ten years ago, when you introduced the teacher's career model, you promised to increase the salary of teachers with the minimum wage, thus ensuring its value-proofness and then breaking that promise. In addition, the high workload is a very big problem, and unfortunately, there is little evidence of the professional freedom and appreciation of teachers on the part of the government. In such a situation, your expected attitude would be to think and negotiate meaningfully, to heed teachers' proposals instead of pouring oil on the fire with the draft status law. [[17.00]] The workload will increase, and accordingly the schedule will become more unpredictable, the freedom of teachers will also be reduced, and the teacher's wage increase will slowly be like Columbo's wife: no one has ever seen it. Why do you think, Mr. Secretary, that a career will be more attractive if you have to work more? Why do you think it will be more attractive if teachers can be transferred up to 90 kilometers away? Why do you think it is more attractive to reduce the replacement hourly rate or further reduce the professional freedom of teachers? Half of the teachers are over 50 years of age and only 5 percent are under 30 years of age in the system. Doesn't it bother you that even more teachers or teachers can leave the field in a thousand sizes? I look forward to your substantive reply, Mr. Secretary. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-05-02-163	I give the floor to Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2023-05-02-164	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, In the sight of what is the most important issue, we agree that the wage increase of teachers is absolutely obvious to everyone. There was a 50 percent wage increase earlier. Everyone obviously sees war inflation, everyone sees the consequences of sanctions, which obviously makes it harder for teachers as well. Therefore, it is extremely important for all of us to raise the wages of teachers. We have adopted an agreement with the European Union that this year, on 1 January 2023, the teacher's wages will increase retroactively, not to a small extent, well above 20 percent. We were able to advance 10 percent of the budget, but the moment both the European Union and the Hungarian left finally stop blocking our own resources, the Hungarians' money, which is also part of the budget, but it comes from the European Union's common budget, it can rise to HUF 561 thousand in average wages for teachers and next year's wages to HUF 681 thousand in order to express the value of the wage, and then reach the target value of about HUF 800 thousand in 2025, and then to keep it at its value by 2030. So what you said was that as wages increase, the teacher's wages increase, this guarantee is included in our proposal; it contains HUF 800 billion of EU funds and HUF 5600 billion of domestic budget resources. So that's our main goal, and it doesn't depend on us. We have really created a system in which teachers can't go wrong, so they can't lose money, but they can lose time, and the left seems to be working on it all the time. Ferenc Gyurcsány admitted that Csaba Molnár said that he was proud to do this job. What is a free framework for teachers in teaching, the new NAT has increased from 10 to 20 percent of the educational content that teachers can choose for themselves, precisely to increase their freedom. As far as freedom from work is concerned, so the number of days spent with freedom, I do not understand how you speak of a reduction when, according to the proposal, the freedom of teachers increases from 46 to 50, so it is not a decrease at all, but an increase. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I'll continue from here for a minute. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-02-165	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Madam Vice-President, I will give the floor in return and hand over the chair to Vice-President Latorcai. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2023-05-02-166	Thank you, Mr. President. By freedom, I meant not a reduction in the number of days off, but a reduction in professional leave. [[Bence Rétvári: I said that he grew from 10% to 20.]] On the other hand, you are constantly trying to cover with Brussels, although that is not true, Mr Secretary of State. If you look at the figures, it is clear in black and white that expenditure on education has been declining since 2017. But I will say better: in 2001, during the first Orbán government, there was 5.4 percent of GDP-related expenditure on the education system, higher than the EU average. That's what they've got down to 4.7 percent now. So there's been a steady decline in the amount of education spent on your government for six years. This was not Brussels' decision, but your own decision. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-05-02-167	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. A one-minute rejoinder, Deputy Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2023-05-02-168	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice President. Dear House, I said exactly for professional leave that the new NAT increased the teacher's free time frame to increase their professional freedom from 10 percent to 20 percent. At the same time, each student should be guaranteed that if one goes from one school to another, they can teach him about the same thing, from about similar books, with similar educational material, in the same way as they can prepare him for graduation. So this is the other expectation of parents and students in a completely understandable way that there should not be such a big difference between schools that a move in a graduation or an admissions course carries a great difference. As far as the schedule of working hours and other rules are concerned, there is nothing new about them. What you have brought up, honourable Member, in the Labour Code, in the Public Employee Act and in the Public Education Act, are roughly similar, since there are classes in the school, the school year is afraid of Sep until 15 June, most of the special rules are adapted to this. When it comes to substitution, what's more advantageous is the present 30 days or the 80 or 60 hours that seem to be less at first, we could argue about it for a long time; perhaps we will. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-02-169	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congresswoman Rebecca Szabó, representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: "There will be no austerity in state nature conservation, will there not? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Due to the Minister's absence, Mr Sándor Farkas, Deputy Minister of State, granted the right to reply. I respectfully ask you, accept your response. [[On the sign of Rebecca Szabó:]] Thank you very much, Congresswoman, for saying that she accepts the person who is responding. Congresswoman Rebecca Szabó has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-05-02-170	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Despite Viktor Orbán's promise in 2010, state environmental protection and nature protection have gradually deteriorated in Hungary over the past 13 years, its independent institutions, professional management and authority have ceased. The previously independent environmental offices have now degraded into the departments of the Fidesz manual government offices, and often, unfortunately, nod for the most destructive government investments. But the fact that something remains from the original, former nature reserve network is mostly due to the sacrifice of national parks. In the midst of a series of withdrawals and reduction of powers, national park staff are still struggling to deliver something of the country's natural heritage to future generations. Thanks to them, there are still natural habitats and protected species in the country. According to the information received to me, 135 employees were ordered to be laid off for national parks by means of a so-called government decision of 4000. However, nature conservation guards already have an area that is almost impossible to control. Such a reduction would damage the performance of the task, and would also undermine the constitutional fundamental right to a healthy environment. Secretary of State, you know this: this is a clear restriction. I would like to know, I understand that there is money for, say, HUF 58 billion for the state to join István Tiborcz's real estate capital fund, or perhaps by 660 billion for Vodafone, but for the payment of the invaluable nature conservation guards, is there really no money? Please inform me that you are planning such redundancies in national parks, so I repeat: there are about 135 people involved, and there is indeed such a non-public government decision, which provided for this drastic downsizing.
u2023-05-02-171	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Deputy Minister Sándor Farkas, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2023-05-02-172	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I understand your concern, but it's unfounded, I'd like to say, and I'd like to back that up with a few numbers. Over the last decade, the number of national park directors has doubled, from 693 to 1350 employees. The annual budget of the National Park Directorates has quadrupled over the past decade, and together with the funding linked to the tender activity, it is about HUF 20 billion, while in 2010 they managed only HUF 4.5 billion. Over the last decade, we have improved and improved habitats at more than 300 thousand hectares, with 336 individual investments worth about HUF 90 billion, and we provide infrastructure conditions for nature conservation management. As a result of several years of professional preparation and consultation, the European Commission officially approved the COHEP + programme until 2027 in December 2022, which provides another HUF 42 billion for conservation improvements. In the light of the above, it can be seen that in Hungary, the prestige of nature conservation over the past decade has made considerable progress in its spirit, professionalism and infrastructure. [[17.10]] For example, based on the recent poll by the Századvég Consortium, 78,5 percent of respondents heard about the national parks in Hungary in 2018, 93.9 percent already responded positively in 21. This 15 percent increase proves that the results of this, the quality of services for the population, are tangible and rich in experience. I'll be back in a minute. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-02-173	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Rebecca Szabó. Here you go.
u2023-05-02-174	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We agree that national parks have a very important role to play in the country, which is why I have just spoken. You're saying that a total of 1350 employees could be, so 135 is exactly 10 percent of that. Unfortunately, I understand this is what you're planning to do. But I am very pleased, Mr State Secretary, if, in the next minute, you clearly state that there has been no government decision requiring that 135 posts be closed at all national parks in Hungary. One year's wages for these people could be between 1.2 and 1.3 billion forints in the order of magnitude. It's basically small change for your government. So I don't think it's worth sacrificing just to justify the fact that the others will be able to increase their salary. I think that it is worth raising salaries for national park employees, but not at the cost of putting them into such a terrible job because someone has to do the job of falling employees, that they will simply be unable to do so. So I look forward to a clear statement: they are not planning to send 135 people, and there was no such government decision. Thank you. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-05-02-175	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Deputy Minister, the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2023-05-02-176	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In addition, we are constantly developing the ecotourism infrastructure and environmental education activities of national park directorates. In the last year, the number of participants in this programme has increased to more than 1.7 million people. I would also like to tell you that in the meantime, the network of protected natural areas has expanded: 82 new protected areas of national importance, a landscape protection area, 13 nature conservation areas and 68 natural monuments with a total coverage of 4107 hectares. At the same time as the restoration of habitats, the population of protected indigenous species of the national park directorate is now close to the number of 12,000 animals of outstanding importance in the maintenance of our protected natural areas. Thank you very much. [[Rebecca Szabó: He didn't answer! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] (In the notary seat Dr. Lajos Szűcs Replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai.)
u2023-05-02-177	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman Máté Kanász-Nagy, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What do you think of this, Prime Minister?" It's an address. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the head of the LMP faction said in advance that he would ask for a personal reply, so that he will have to answer at the hour of the next immediate questions due to the absence of Prime Minister. We now have an immediate question from the representative of the LMP faction who wants to ask the next question, and this is Mr Matthew Kanász-Nagy, who wants to ask the minister responsible for culture and innovation: what does the Government do for child protection? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Due to Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. Eszter Vitalyos, Deputy Minister of State, has given her the right to reply. [[Máté Kanász-Nagy nods.]] Thank you very much for accepting the response. Mr. Kanász-Nagy, the floor is on the table. Here you go.
u2023-05-02-178	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, In that, I think we all agree that the protection and strengthening of the welfare of the child is a common objective which must be served not only in words but also in actions. To this end, I submitted on behalf of the LMP, and we presented our proposal for a decision to strengthen the social and child welfare sector, including the original 1997 XXXI. a general review of the child protection law, the increase in subsidies, standards, the increase in the wages of social workers and a number of other positive measures. However, this was not supported by Fidesz-KDNP representatives at the Commission stage. We also have another child protection package, which will soon come before the Commission, and hopefully before this House, which will put forward further proposals beyond the Child Protection Act, such as the introduction of different career tests, the launch of parental information programmes or the comprehensive regulation of social media, the revision or strengthening of the current legislation. In particular, we would focus on the regulation of the Community video-sharing platform TikTok. We believe that there are harmful content on this platform, and therefore young people under the age of 18 should not be allowed access to this platform. In TikTok, there are content that usually creates visual pollution, but in addition, unfortunately, more and more often we hear about the emergence of content that is particularly harmful to young people, content related to sexuality, violence and other harmful things. This service provider does not seem to be able to filter out these content, and unfortunately young people have access to these harmful content, so TikTok should be banned for people under the age of 18. I would ask the government's position on this and support this ban. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-05-02-179	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, the answer will be given by Deputy Minister Eszter Vitalyos, Secretary of State. Here you go, Madam Secretary. You have the floor.
u2023-05-02-180	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The scope of child protection on this issue does not belong to the cultural and innovation portfolio in the governmental structure, but to the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Interior. At the same time, we fully agree that protecting our children is one of the most important issues in the country. That is why we are working on further tightening the child protection rules, because we believe and believe that the child in our country is holy and inviolable, Hungary must have the strictest child protection system in Europe. The pedophile scandals of the past months clearly indicate that the time has come to stop the process, it is important to draw a line and stand up for our traditions, our moral values, from which we do not allow at any cost, as the spiritual health of new generations is at stake. However, I would like to say that the LMP did not vote for the government's child protection package two years ago, so I always see a small gap in credibility issues. And the time I have available does not allow us to discuss point by point the proposals contained in your proposal for a decision, but I recommend to you, as an example, which you have just mentioned in your question, that psychological fitness should be examined by children, that, for example, such a mandatory psychological fitness test exists before the start of foster parenting. I'll continue from here. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-02-181	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder is to be heard by Congressman Matthew Kanász-Nagy. Here you go.
u2023-05-02-182	Thank you for the floor. Of course, we are not voting on any proposal from the government, which includes, for example, the stigmatisation, exclusion, and looting of LGBT groups. So we're not gonna support this. By the way, I would like to talk specifically about the TikTok, because I think it is a very cultural question of what content young people get. These contents are part of culture, and I think they are otherwise harmful and therefore to be restricted. It's a cultural question of what kind of videos young people watch. These videos convey very high levels of cultural elements, cultural content, culture or standards, I think, of negative, harmful standards. That is why we are proposing that access to them should be prohibited under the age of 18. In particular, I look forward to the government's position in this regard and will support our proposal to protect young people from these harmful contents. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-05-02-183	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Deputy Minister, the Secretary of State. Here you go. [[17.20]]
u2023-05-02-184	Thank you very much. As I said, we are working on a very comprehensive and extremely strict child protection package, and I think that the contents of your proposal for a resolution will also be examined by the relevant wallets. And by the way, I also think that this is my private opinion on the matter, that I do not necessarily think that it is necessary to choose TikTok as a website or a portal that distributes content that has a negative impact on the development of children; unfortunately, there are a lot of these on the web, there are a lot of such portals. I also think that it is primarily for parents and teachers to help children to see what content they can look at and what they need to protect themselves and our children from. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-02-185	Thank you very much. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman Csaba Nagy, a representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Regional Development an immediate question: "Is nothing really too expensive? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Csaba Latorcai, Deputy Minister, granted the right to reply because of the Minister's absence. I respectfully ask you, accept your response. [[On the mark of Csaba Nagy:]] Thank you so much for accepting. Congressman Csaba Nagy has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-05-02-186	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Everyone must have already learned that Ferenc Gyurcsány's fallen Prime Minister and his party at home and in Brussels are working with all their might to ensure that Hungary does not receive the EU's rightful money. It is clear that Gyurcsány, as usual, every activity and manifestation of Hungary, the Hungarian people and national interests are aimed at taking action against Hungary and putting our country at a disadvantage; we have no doubt that their foreign customers are throwing the Soros dollars at them for this very reason. Ferenc Gyurcsány is not far from going down on his own, so he did when he admitted in his Facebook post that he was working with great forces in Brussels to prevent Hungary from receiving the EU funds for him. We cannot stress the undemocratic, scandalous and unacceptable behaviour of Ferenc Gyurcsány and the entire dollar left. On the first day of last week, the fallen Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány's party held a shadow government info, where MEP Csaba Molnár, Minister of the Shadow Chancellor of the Left's Shadow Government, stated categorically that he, Csaba Molnár, had a patriotic duty to do everything to prevent EU funds from arriving in Hungary. It is both shocking and disappointing that while Csaba Molnár described this, he also gave serious criticism to the government and accused the country's leadership of not wanting to settle the situation of teachers. This shows just how hypocritical the Gyurcsány Party and the entire dollar left are, because they are exactly the ones who are doing everything they can to prevent teachers from getting a raise by trying to prevent EU money from arriving. (Believe Dezső in the notary seat) Replaced by Sándor Szabó.) Dear Secretary of State, You can see that the dollar left works hard every day for dollars rolling from abroad. In the light of what has been said, I ask the Secretary of State: is there really nothing sacred about the dollar left? [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-02-187	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Csaba Latorcai, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2023-05-02-188	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, It's safe to say that once again, the dollar-left has been exposed to the fact that nothing is really expensive for them. Indeed, it seems that in exchange for the Soros dollars, they are consistently working against national interests. With Ferenc Gyurcsány's second speech in autumn, he openly admitted that many people are working to prevent Hungary from receiving EU funds, and, as Mr. What patriotism is the fight against Hungarian interests, the Hungarian people? Congresswoman and gentlemen, this is not patriotism, this is political treason. He shouldn't be comparing himself and the Democratic Coalition to the party president, he should be comparing himself to Judas, but there's not silver money here, there's dollar. Ferenc Gyurcsány and his comrades are not patriots, because the patriot loves his country, lives for Hungary, works for Hungary and is not an enemy of his own people. Dear House, The visit of the Holy Father this weekend brought joy to many of us, and his words must serve as a warning to all of us. And if we listened to it with open ears, then we could also hear that supranationalism is the base path of ideological colonialization, so the forced and abstract supranationalism that I am indicating is on the flag of the European Left, and as a sovereignty debate in all our debates in the European Union [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] And, of course, we will not allow it to be an ideological colonial path. No, the Government of Hungary will not allow Hungary to become a colony! [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-02-189	Thank you very much. Congressman Csaba Nagy is entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2023-05-02-190	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your answer. In addition, according to a communication issued by the Gyurcsány Party, Sándor Rónai, the party's MEP and shadow minister, as they put it, wrote a letter to the European Commission in which they demanded that our country not receive the funds due to him. Thus, while the Hungarian government, together with the Fidesz-KDNP fraction of Parliament, is working day and night to get the funds that are rightfully due to us, the dollar left is writing letters to Brussels and explaining with grandiose words their intention to put Hungarian people at a disadvantage. They're worth a couple of rolling dollars more than home. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-02-191	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Deputy Minister, the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2023-05-02-192	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, In the end, those who seek favor with the tyrant find servitude. Ferenc Gyurcsány had such thoughts on the 15th of March. These are words to consider, a warning to all who enter DK's ranks, but a warning to all of us, because it is the left that wanted to give the country to one of the largest international financial tyrant, George Soros, to make us his ideological colony, Congressman. [[Zsolt Gréczy: The whole Fidesz studied with him!]] Heavy judicious silver coins therefore draw the pockets of left-wing representatives, but conversion in politics is never too late. Ladies and gentlemen of the Left, Dear Congressman Gréczy, I want you to represent the people and not the colonial financiers. Thank you very much. [[Zsolt Gréczy: The entire Fidesz leadership studied with Soros! Soros-rental Fidesz!]]
u2023-05-02-193	Thank you very much. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman István Hollik, a representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question: It's an address. Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that Róbert Répássy, Deputy Minister of State, has given his right to reply because of the Minister's absence. With all due respect, you'll accept the recipient's identity. [[On the mark of István Hollik:]] Thank you so much for accepting. It is for Congressman István Hollik. Here you go.
u2023-05-02-194	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I'd like to pick up where Congressman and Deputy Minister left off, but I'd like to start with a different light. In the last 12 years, Hungary has faced many challenges, which I think may be called historical, which were important for our country, the Hungarian nation, to be able to give a good answer, and a sad experience is that Hungary's politics has not been able to create cooperation on these historical challenges either. This was due to the fact that the left was always opposed to the fully visible national interest, but it has stopped here in the last 12 years, so it is opposed to the national interest, but it has stopped here. However, there has been a level step in recent times, and the level step is reflected in the fact that they are now not only opposed to the national interest, but also, in a declaration, they say that their goal is to damage Hungary, to damage Hungarian businesses, and they are putting all of this in legal robes, as Ferenc Gyurcsány said. Csaba Molnár went even further, but he is a Stahanovist Gyurcsány MEP who even said that he thought it was a patriotic duty to work so that EU funds would not arrive. [[17 .30]] So he thinks it is a patriotic duty to prevent EU funds from raising the wages of teachers. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Why don't you give it to me?]] Congratulations. The question is, why do they do that? That's my question, Mr. Secretary. They're doing it because their clients, who we now know, have given you more money since the election than they did before the election. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Will you prove this sentence in court?]] Is that what you're supposed to do? [[Zsolt Gréczy: He won't stop in court!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-05-02-195	Thank you very much, Congressman. [[István Hollik: Are you threatening the court?]] I give the floor to Mr Répássy Róbert, Deputy Minister of State. I ask those who have not been given the floor in this debate to try to stick to it. Thank you very much. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2023-05-02-196	Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The things you put in your left eye, they're facts, everything happened as you say. Indeed, it is happening that, in conjunction with the European Left, the Hungarian left, various MEPs and various European Parliament officials are working to ensure that Hungary does not receive the funds due to it or receive the European Union's money. So in this, I think, what has been said in the last few days, whether from Ferenc Gyurcsány's pen or mouth or from Csaba Molnár's mouth, was nothing new. What was new was that they openly admitted it. But there's nothing new about that. I have to say that, indeed, for years, since various left-wing reporters in the European Parliament have told a number of lies about Hungary in their reports, it has been revealed in many cases that Hungarian people have taken their pen to these reporters and written these sentences by Hungarian people, these claims have caused serious damage to Hungary. It is not true that they only wanted to harm the government, because it is now clear that withholding European Union funds directly affects Hungarian citizens, not the government, but Hungary and the Hungarian people. However, today and tomorrow, for example, we have a big moment ahead of us, because DK can prove its patriotic commitment, if it has one, because it can vote in favour of the laws that the government has submitted to this House during the negotiations with the European Commission. Let's hope DK finally shows us how they say it? Patriots. We'll find out. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-05-02-197	Thank you very much. [[Zsolt Gréczy: The Fidesz must decide who the patriot is!]] I give the floor to Congressman István Hollik for a minute's rejoinder. Here you go.
u2023-05-02-198	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. It was also interesting that Ferenc Gyurcsány, in his radio interview quoted by you, spoke with surprising openness about what was behind their political intentions. The simple truth is, the worse this country is, the better for you. Ferenc Gyurcsány said that they expect to achieve the best possible result in the elections to the European Parliament, that EU funds did not arrive in Hungary. So you are working to ensure that EU funds do not arrive so that you can achieve the best possible result in the next election. Therefore, you should be ashamed of yourself, but I think that there is an intention here, which Ferenc Gyurcsány has not even reported: that is what those who finance you expect of you. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-05-02-199	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Robert Répássy, Deputy Minister of State, has a one-minute rejoinder.
u2023-05-02-200	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I only have a very short time to draw your attention to the fact that in the European Union you will not believe in preparing a law on foreign agents, so this is a European Union legal document in which the European Union wants to defend itself against supporting NGOs, non-governmental organisations and scientific workshops from abroad. This particular law, prepared in the model of the 1938 U.S. FARA law in the European Union, is strongly attacked by Transparency International and is strongly attacked by NGOs who benefit from these foreign subsidies. At the same time, we can honestly trust that this legislative process will be implemented in the European Union, and then a directive on the registration of foreign agents will be mandatory throughout the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-05-02-201	Thank you very much. Dear House, Fellow Members! That concludes the hour of immediate questioning. Now we're gonna have debates. It follows the discussion of the Act of the Universal Postal Association of the Nineth, Tenth and Tenth Pót Protocol, the amendment and final protocol of the Universal Postal Convention of the Universal Postal Association signed at the Doha Congress in 2012, the amendment and conclusion of the Final Protocol of the General Postal Association signed at the 2016 Congress in Istanbul, the amendment and conclusion protocol of the 2018 Addis Ababa Convention, the consolidated text and the Second Additional Protocol of the Universal Postal Union signed at the 2019 Geneva Congress, and the legislative report and amendment proposal submitted to the Act on the announcement of the conclusion and conclusion of the 2021 Abidjan Convention. Text of Act sent to the President of the Republic for signature T/1306/8. Letter from the President of the Republic T/1306.9. The Parliament's IT network is available to all of us. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I now give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-05-02-202	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that on 27 April 2023 the Legislative Committee discussed the transcript of the President of the Republic, in which it sent back for consideration the Statute of the Universal Postal Association, the Ninth, Tenth and Tenth Pot Protocol, the amendment and the Final Protocol to the Universal Postal Convention of the Universal Postal Association signed at the 2012 Doha Congress, the amendment and conclusion protocol signed at the 2016 Congress in Istanbul, the amendment and conclusion of the 2018 Addis Ababa Convention, the consolidated text and the Second Additional Protocol of the Universal Postal Union signed at the 2019 Geneva Congress, and the proposed law on the amendment and conclusion of the 2021 Abidjan Convention. In the light of the comments of the President of the Republic, the Committee shall adopt its Rules of Procedure. § 3 has decided to submit an amendment. The transcript of the President of the Republic and the amendment tabled in this context were adopted by 36 votes in favour, no votes against, with one abstention. Ladies and gentlemen, In Hungary, the Charter, the Final Protocol, the General Rules of the Association and its Final Protocol were published in 1967. The legislation of such a long-standing and global institution should be reviewed from time to time in line with the challenges of that age. The protocols and additional protocols in the international treaty before us provide for, inter alia, the establishment of so-called narrower associations, special agreements, the scope and purpose of the association itself, exceptional relations, postal security and relations between the Universal Postal Association and the United Nations. The financial and operational background of the association and possible exits from the Member States are also addressed. [[17.40]] This bill was passed by the Parliament on 25 October 2022, but it was returned for consideration by the President of the Republic on 4 November 2022. In the light of its comments, the Legislative Committee submitted an amendment consisting of eight points, which are all legislative amendments or supplementary provisions. On this basis, as at the committee meeting, I ask that the proposal be supported. Thank you for listening.
u2023-05-02-203	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am now going to ask your rapporteur, Mr János Fónagy, Deputy Minister of State, if you would like to speak. [[For signal:]] There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-02-204	Mr President, Dear Parliament, On 25 October 2022, the Parliament voted in favour of the bill before you, which the President of the Republic, in accordance with her constitutional right, sent back to this House for consideration. The President of the Republic objected, on the one hand, to the lack of consistency between the title and the content of the bill and proposed that the documents which were later published on the website of the Universal Postal Association be presented in a bill. He asked to examine the need for Hungary to issue an instrument of ratification on the basis of international law documents under the bill and, in the light of the outcome of the investigation, proposed to supplement the proposal with provisions on the recognition of the mandatory scope of the bill. The proposal before us, to remedy what the President of the Republic has said, creates consistency between the title of the bill, the text and the annexes by clarifying their content and complementing the bill with the parliamentary mandate to recognise the mandatory scope of the relevant international law documents and, in this context, amends the provision setting the date of entry into force. The amendment to the entry into force provision is justified by the unusual practice of the Universal Postal Association in international law, according to which it considers the acts of the Universal Postal Association mandatory and effective for all Member States from the date set by the Congress of the Universal Postal Association, but also considers it necessary for Member States to deposit a formal instrument of ratification of the recognition of binding effect. Accordingly, and in accordance with the Vienna Convention on the Law of the Treaty and the Hungarian rules governing the procedure relating to international contracts, the dates of entry into force laid down by the Congress of the Universal Postal Association are considered to be the starting date for the provisional application of the relevant legal acts, whereas the date of entry into force of international law and internal law is linked to the future date of deposit of the instrument of recognition of binding effect. Dear Parliament, On this basis, I call on this House to support the proposed amendment of the Legislative Committee drawn up in accordance with the proposals of the President of the Republic. Thank you for this opportunity, Mr President, and your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-02-205	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with the rules of the house, you have a total time frame of 15 minutes for speaking in the debate and presenting any closing words. Accordingly, as a result of your comment of 3 minutes in 22 seconds, you still have a time frame of 11 minutes and 38 seconds for discussion and closing. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. [[With regard to the display:]] I was waiting for them to appear on the screen during the time frame. I would like to ask my fellow Members who would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no such signal.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I now ask Mr János Fónagy, as rapporteur, that he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Dr. János Fónagy: No, thank you.]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. We now have the Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws on foreign affairs and the debate on the draft amendment. Government referral T/3515. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. Therefore, I would like to ask Mrs Boglárka Elijah, as rapporteur for the committee, to present it. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-02-206	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee discussed on 27 April 2023 the T/3515 amending certain laws on foreign affairs. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 27 votes in favour, 5 votes against and 6 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, I had the opportunity to present the bill in detail in the general debate, but in order to convince as many fellow Members as possible in addition to the bill, I would highlight one or two points from this bill. The bill contains legislative amendments that are clearly necessary to ensure the proper functioning of the permanent external service system and the consular service and consular protection, as well as to ensure the effective representation of Hungarian foreign policy interests. These amendments serve to ensure uniform application and a high level of responsibilities, thus making a significant contribution to the proper functioning of the single representation system. In addition to the above, which could directly affect Hungarian citizens or a wider range of Hungarian citizens, the categories of security classifications, as this amendment also clarifies this, are more appropriate: this is complemented by this, as the consular service enumerates individual countries or regions, as is known to all of us, by considering certain risk factors in relation to travel abroad. It has been a long time since the beginning of the use of security classifications, and during that time we have gathered a lot of experience. A new category will therefore be introduced, which aims to better reflect the security risks in individual countries and regions and the different levels of threat in relation to Hungarian citizens planning or staying there. With the creation of the new category, it will clearly be possible to show that if a country's security features, although present a significant risk, can still be guaranteed consular protection in that country, the functioning of that country will provide health and administrative assistance if it makes it possible in difficult circumstances, but still so that, if it is necessary to travel there in an urgent matter, it does not have to cancel the journey, so it does not have to be cancelled and travel insurance can be provided for those countries. In addition, the amendment also includes the definition of a professional diplomat law, which is complemented quite precisely: a body with a special status which is subject to the law on special status and the status of persons employed by them may be designated for permanent external service placement, and I would like to stress for a limited period of time that it can relocate the person to be posted. In view of this, the regulation on the management and contacts of professional diplomats will also be clarified and it will be possible to delegate the professional diploma to the Ministry of Coordination of European Union Affairs before being assigned to the Permanent Representation to the European Union. A major amendment is that the tasks to be performed in a permanent external service job can be defined by reference to the regulations of the posting body instead of a job description. [[17.50]] In addition, the staff of exchange rate compensation to mitigate the impact of the euro or dollar price increase has been clarified and the allocation body entitled to provide compensation has also been clearly defined in the same field. The amendment also regulates the situation of transfers from law enforcement bodies to permanent external service by introducing a further legal institution. In addition, the amendment includes clarification provisions on the advance payment of public health care costs. The Legislative Committee adopted an amendment to the proposal, which contained less substantive, more linguistic, codification and legal clarification. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-02-207	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to ask Secretary of State Azbei Tristan if he would like to speak now. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. Accordingly, if it is closed, you will have a 15-minute time frame at your disposal. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Committee on Foreign Affairs. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute speech during the debate. The timeframes are on the billboard. I ask my fellow Members, who wish to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I'll ask Secretary of State Azbei Tristan if you'd like to make a closing statement. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. It follows from the 2011 CCIX on water utility services. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Government referral T/3526. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the opinion expressed by the minority will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee, the time frame is eight minutes. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-05-02-208	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 27 April 2023, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2011 CCIX on water utility services. T/3526. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 27 votes in favour, 5 votes against and 5 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The CCIX 2011 on water utility services. In the case of law, on the basis of the experience gained in the application of the law by the authorities, it has become necessary to clarify, supplement and restructure the text of the norm in several places. Right now, Vkstv. its supervisory rules apply only to water utility providers. However, in practice, the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office also carries out a significant number of checks on those responsible for the care. The proposal would introduce three types of controls: target control, thematic control and follow-up. The aim of the bill is also to ensure that the system, which has been renovated from the water utility development contribution under the given water utility system, does not double the cost of water utilities to the person responsible for the care; the aim is to keep them on the water utility system concerned. To this end, it shall be recorded that it is offered in writing to the person responsible for the supply not exceeding the net book value. A further amendment is that in the event of termination of operating contracts by mutual agreement, lighter rules will be laid down, as it is unjustified to maintain an eight-month period, instead the parties shall conclude four months. The rules applicable in the event of termination of the operating contract shall also be supplemented. The proposal regulates the scope of the data to be transmitted and the deadline for transmission. In view of the practical experience in the procedures for setting transitional charges, the amendment clarifies that the basic fee varies from diameter to diameter. In view of the fact that the water utility development contribution is essentially a right of property, it is therefore necessary to lay down the basic provisions at the level of law allowing the transfer or transfer of the quota obtained. Dear House, During the procedure of the Legislative Committee, amendments to support norm-clearity and interpretation were formulated. In view of this, the proposal should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-02-209	Thank you very much, Congressman. The minority opinion is presented by Mr László Varju. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-02-210	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. In the course of the debate on the law, we have repeatedly drawn attention to the need to do more than what is currently in the law. Even because the situation that has arisen in settlements as a result of frequent pipe breaks has raised a number of problems. The answer to these problems in itself is to force and essentially blackmail the settlements into handing over their assets, not in itself. Moreover, none of their views in the consultation held by these companies were accepted. Therefore, professional and non-governmental actors who joined forces should have been taken into account. The danger of water supply collapse today is a public address, such as water leaks or sewage leaks, examples of what is a problem, by the way. At the government level, now, in the person of the Secretary of State, seeing the huge problem, this has appeared, but the real social consultation on this has not started. It is therefore necessary to carry out a comprehensive assessment of the status of the water utility network and to address the restructuring of the burden of the water levy alone. In a minority opinion, I continue to draw attention to the fact that there is a need to prepare the pipeline exchange, the network expansion, the schedule of the programme plan for this, but you have not done so far. In the meantime, instead of nationalisation, it would be necessary to strengthen self-determination so that those who can do this as service providers can stay. You do not do this, and we have therefore formulated this in the minority opinion, and on this basis I will continue to say that this is not possible in this form. Thank you very much.
u2023-05-02-211	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask Mr Zsolt V. Németh, State Secretary, if you would like to take the opportunity to speak. If you wish, I would like to inform you that your time frame in the debate and closing hours is a total of 15 minutes. With what is now being said at the beginning of the debate, there will be so much less speaking time to participate in the debate or to speak in the closing section. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor. [[László Varju intervenes.]] I'm sorry... [[László Varju: TAB meeting begins, and I'm sorry if I have to leave.]] Thank you very much. It's for the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2023-05-02-212	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Congressman Varju, As has been said in the general debate, and I stressed at the committee's meeting, this amendment is essentially not about the integration process, but, of course, my fellow Members in the debate have been concerned with this. Thank you for the attitude that I have experienced by either pro-government or opposition representatives, as concern for the sector itself has been tangible. [[18.00]] In addition, let me draw your attention to the fact that, in the integration process, water utilities and operating assets can be transferred from one public property to another, if that is the choice of the ownership. This is a little different from the situation that was in your administration when they sold the infrastructure. So there is no such thing, but that the government is taking advantage of its responsibility and offering this opportunity to the municipalities. In addition, I think it is important to stress that it is not only in this law that the government's responsibility is shown, but also that there is a feverish work to be done to move the fee system towards a fair and just charging system, and, of course, at the same time, we want to launch the reconstruction programme. So we can see that we do agree on this, that the status of water utilities is not the best, that there is a very high net loss, and that we want to change this situation, so that is all we are trying to do. Thank you for your contributions. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-02-213	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you, Mr Secretary of State, that you have a timeframe of 12 minutes and 43 seconds for speeches and closings in total. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform this House that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. I now give the floor to Lóránt László Keresztes, rapporteur of the Committee on Sustainable Development, who will present the minority opinion of the committee. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-05-02-214	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Both at the committee meeting and in the plenary session before that, we agreed that water is life itself, that we are talking about a national issue of fate, when we are talking about water management and water supply. There were differences of opinion, and there were some differences in the extent to which, but there was agreement that this water utility, infrastructure, was in a very, very difficult state. That is why I would like to start by thanking some of the workers in the sector for doing their job with sacrifice under difficult circumstances, and also, where appropriate, humiliatingly low wages. It is quite clear that if they could not cope, the most important public service in many places would be in trouble, i.e. the provision of drinking water. Indeed, I also explained in more detail at the committee meeting what I think about the difficult situation in the sector, the infrastructure. It has been said that, according to statistics, the proportion of tube systems with an appropriate rating is already below 20 per cent. We talked about the extremely high network loss, which is close to 25 percent, so in this proportion the drinking water produced is drained because of the bad pipe network. I also spoke about the fact that the 2010 heritage was very difficult, but since then the number of pipe breaks has doubled, so the situation has clearly become worse, and it can be seen, especially during the summer period, that in many places, and not only in some places in the country, the continuity of drinking water supply is certainly a challenge, ensuring this. You can say that I am experiencing this as a small personal success, that not so long ago I could ask Prime Minister about this in the form of an immediate question, and he himself has already confirmed that there is a lack of resources of 3000 billion, while a good year earlier we agreed that 1000 billion was not yet accepted by Prime Minister, that 3000 billion was not yet accepted. In my opinion, the situation is much worse now, and obviously we have also faced significant inflation. By the way, the HUF 3000 000 billion estimate is a 2017 data, so the County City Association has prepared a comprehensive strategy document, and not the necessary, but the missing resources have been estimated in this way, so the problem is quite amazing. I also had to mention at the committee's meeting about the links between previous government decisions and the current situation that we should have carried out by 2015 a certain comprehensive survey that the government is about to launch. For years, we have been listening to some sort of comprehensive strategy. In this respect, it was also decided that a specific set of steps should be outlined by the end of 2021. So I argued for it, and I couldn't support this bill either, that was one of the reasons, because I simply don't see the strict timing and sequence of steps to the gravity of the situation in the sector, a consistent set of steps in this bill and in general on the part of the government, and therefore I think that these steps are insufficient. I also drew attention to the fact that Parliament has already adopted this year's budget, and if we look at its figures, we can see that the necessary amount of support for the state of the infrastructure is simply missing, so we need an immediate budget adjustment. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2023-05-02-215	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, The speeches will now take place in the time-frames on the agenda, which have already been published on the table. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I ask my fellow Members who would like to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes. Here you go.
u2023-05-02-216	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In this way, I would like to round up the speech a little bit, and then I would also like to present the opinion of my group. Well, what we are saying is that in order not to have this particular collapse, which I think we all have a right to fear, we need an immediate fiscal transfer, and this year not only the resources provided for the economic sustainability of companies, i.e. state and municipal companies, but also a hundred billion additional resources must be provided for maintenance work. We do not see this, so we fear that there will be, unfortunately, serious problems in the operation if the government does not face this. In the short time at my disposal, I would also like to present the opinion of the group. As has already been said, water is life itself, and indeed, if we are talking about the most important challenges for the future of the nation, then I think that one of the most serious issues on the agenda here is the provision of water for our children and grandchildren, the provision of healthy drinking water, the protection of our drinking water bases. It is often said from various politicians that Hungary is a water power, and that there really is no significant problem with this. By the way, it is shocking that even when we are listening to debates about industrial strategy, we are hearing statements about economic policy and government players of a kind that, in fact, has never been a problem. Well, there is a problem. In some ways, Hungary can be called a water power, but if we look at 95 percent of our water resources as flowing rivers from abroad and they leave the country to a greater extent, we can see that there is a huge problem. It is clear that this is not the fault of the current government, and it is not the fault of the previous government, but it is a problem for many decades that Hungary has a poor view of water management, and therefore it is practically draining the country as soon as possible. This has led to the critical situation that we have experienced last year, and we are now experiencing the brutal effects of climate change, the amazing historical drought we are experiencing, and this is also in connection with what we are talking about with the water utility system, the need for a fundamental change of approach here. This, by the way, gives me the opportunity to mention very briefly that a little positive should be reported. A conference was organised recently by the Water Management Council. I couldn't be there, but my colleagues, who were there, indicated that the correct assessment of the weight of the problems had already appeared at such a high level of professional forum, and we can say that I don't want to offend anyone, but also those water workers who, in fact, are determined by this old concept of anchoring, may be a little more open to those who speak of it, that a water retention water management is needed, and basically water retention is needed in the soil, because it is a natural medium of water. But turning back, basically we are faced with a water management problem, the problems of the utility, the supply of drinking water, the protection of water bases, which is again essentially related to the issues of sewage treatment, sewage treatment and the protection of our surface and groundwater waters. It would be a long list of the departments in which the different areas belong. The bill also deals with the creation of a kind of professional committee. This certainly underlines that there is no unified government approach behind water affairs, water management, and this certainly brings out these problems, which I have already referred to in part, because here, to say the correct management of water is not enough, a proper policy is not enough to keep infrastructure in order, but, for example, an industrial policy, an economic policy that takes into account Hungary's potential, the finiteness of our natural resources. [[18.10]] In this respect, we have seen very, very serious problems, and here my group is also of the opinion that, although this bill is a small step in the right direction, we recognise in itself its importance, and I would like to stress that there is now an extremely serious State Secretary, if not one of the most serious Hungarian system problems, but, overall, we would like to see a much more serious, scheduled, faster series of steps and its implementation. The only thing I would like to refer to in this extremely short time is the preservation of infrastructure in national hands. There has been a small debate here. We really believe that it is a serious mistake if it is not a crime to make such a strategic infrastructure private. So, as the Secretary of State said, the previous governments, the governments before 2010, considered this to be good, did so, and, in many cases, the water utilities were thrown away by local authorities. We consider this to be a serious mistake, irresponsible, and we are deeply convinced that this strategic infrastructure must be held in national hands, and that water utilities, control of our water resources, should never fall into private hands or in foreign hands. This can't be happening. At the same time, we have an argument with the government, and I also have an argument with the Secretary of State that it does not really matter whether it is in the hands of a state or a local government. I think that once again it is a very serious professional mistake if you want to move this important public service away from local responsibility and its maintenance away from local knowledge. Basically in national hands, but we believe that this service should be managed by local governments. By the way, I'd like to quote the Fidesz mayor of Debrecen, who made it very clear that this is an important strategic infrastructure that the municipality cannot hand out. The municipality has a supply obligation, a responsibility, a responsibility to the people who live there, and the possibility and infrastructure must be retained in order to meet this responsibility. We therefore ask that both municipal and public companies be given the necessary resources for operation, survival and maintenance. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2023-05-02-217	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Group of our country is Mr Dócs Dávid. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-05-02-218	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, As my fellow Member has said before me, water is a major issue and task to be solved in the future, as we have seen over the past year and have seen over the past decades that poor water management and neglect of water utilities and infrastructure can lead to problems, since we know that nearly 50 percent of this water utility wealth is already beyond its technical lifetime, in extremely poor condition. Therefore, based on our information from those working in the water utility sector, we can face a daily problem and the daily problem is that these water utility systems must be maintained and spontaneous failures must be effectively restored and recovered on a daily basis. This is due to the fact that in recent decades there has not been enough resources for this very important purpose, as even in 2010 the General Assembly of the United Nations stated that clean water and drinking water are the fundamental human rights of everyone and the Fundamental Law of Hungary in Article P. I think that, unfortunately, this is not guaranteed to everyone in the heart of Europe today, either, in Hungary, because we have seen that last year's drought was the main test of this, when we have actually experienced water scarcity here in the heart of Europe, in the Carpathian Basin, not somewhere in Africa or in the Middle East, but really here in the Carpathian Basin. This may result from the wrong attitude that we are simply releasing more water from our pool, the Carpathian Basin, than we are getting in. Therefore, it is a bit absurd when the government here plans to compile and register the unauthorized wells, and then maybe pair this with a later tax burden. If you do this when our country's water management and water utilities are completely in order, it would be understandable that the current government is worried about our water supply and our water base, but we can see this duality, because on one side we see that it is precisely the neglect that characterizes the water resources and, on the other hand, the water management of our country, while in the other pan we see that it is actually trying to impose unnecessary costs on the Hungarian population. Although it is good news that I learned from the President of the Commission today at the Committee on Agriculture that under the pressure of the Agricultural Ministry, and the Prime Minister himself, he is the greatest leader in not having to charge wells with separate taxes or special levies and expenses, to say the owners of wells. We are particularly pleased about this, because we have also started a collection of signatures across the country, which is very popular, because I do not want the Hungarian people to have any more skin removed from them. This is linked to the entire water supply by simply trying to nationalise this water utility right now, because we can see that the municipalities have been offered an ultimatum, either to pass it to the state or to impose different sanctions on them, which, I think, is not very timely at the moment, because the municipalities are already having a lot of problems. This is due to their under-financing, because in recent years the government has simply conducted a wrong policy when, let's say, in connection with a Covid-mizéria, the extra burden placed on the shoulders of the municipalities, not removed from them, or when they initiated their own tax withdrawal, and the municipalities have suffered a huge loss of revenue. This is evident and tangible in the maintenance of the water utility system, or not in its maintenance, as these reduced revenues cannot afford this. However, it is quite nonsense that the state wants to take this property away from the municipalities by having them pay the local authorities even more. Therefore, as I said earlier, it is quite simply the view of the Hungarian Movement that the government should first correct the country's water management, restore the water supply with various redistributed resources, and then any other comments or other endeavours can be expressed, as we see that at the moment it seems a little bit like the stripe had preceded the plane. Therefore, we would like to see significant transfer of resources to the water utility, because if the quality and condition of these networks continue to deteriorate, the supply of both healthy water and water for all in many places could be problematic and could be at risk. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[István Szabadi applauds.]]
u2023-05-02-219	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I will now ask Mr Zsolt V. Németh, State Secretary, if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Secretary of State. You have a 15-minute window. Here you go.
u2023-05-02-220	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to repeat the answer to what was said in the general debate and what was said at the committee meeting, but let me refer again to some of the elements. Lóránt László Keresztes, President of the Commission, said several times at committee meetings here and there that the state is about to start carrying out a survey that should be ready, and that is, in fact, preventing the reconstruction itself from being carried out. For years, it has been mandatory for companies and service companies to make rolling development plans, which they submit to the MEKH, so they know. So where to intervene, you know, all operators know that this does not least prevent development. We will provide a source, and these improvements will be scheduled for apologies, reconstructions, in the places where it is most necessary. Of course, it is possible to criticise the number of places in the governance structure where drinking water itself appears, but I think that there are many structures that can work well together. Today, for example, I was at a meeting where the water supply of the Duna-Tisza sandback was not only mentioned, but the plan was presented there, and all the actors were sitting together from the Ministry of the Interior to the responsible government player in the field development. So, with good cooperation, this problem can be solved. [[18.20]] Besides all these, Mr Dócs mentioned it, and it always appears somewhere that the state is not taking due care in the field of water utilities. Let me mention, however, that in recent years, the amount of hundreds of billions or perhaps even a thousand billion could amount to the amount of resources co-financed by the state from European Union and domestic sources, without the municipalities in which you are speaking, without having to add a single penny to all this. So, for example, this development mode puts it in a completely different approach, in a completely different context, that the state would welcome it if the municipality that thinks it would like to offer it this infrastructure, once again, to say that it is not mandatory. In general, the congressmen talk about the municipalities and that in municipal circles. Which municipality? The city council of 200 people? 'Cause what I see is that small settlements are the least bit attached to these assets, because they can't do anything about it, what they can do with it. So where this kind of idea, which appears either in pro-government or in opposition settlements, is typically large cities, county seats, where they reach the size of wealth management that can be interpreted otherwise. In many thousands of small settlements, that's not the least of it. Along with all this, I would like to thank you for the attitude, the kind of concern you have for this sector, and I would also like to ask that my fellow Members support the adoption of the law with their votes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-02-221	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. We now have the Commission's reports on the amendment of individual laws in the context of the development of public administration and the debate on the summary amendment proposal. Government referral T/3514. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2023-05-02-222	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 27 April 2023, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/3514 on the modification of certain laws in connection with the development of public administration. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 27 votes in favour, 6 against and 6 abstentions. Ladies and Gentlemen, The proposal before us concerns a number of important topics, which include a salad law containing comprehensive amendments. The aim of the bill is, inter alia, a comprehensive review of citizenship procedures, a comprehensive review of the legal background of civil status procedures, changes to the activities of civil community service centres, maximizing the administrative fee for property registration, the creation of a digital citizenship scheme for Hungarians living across borders, changes to the development of tourist areas, repealing the protection provisions and other technical amendments. The amendment tabled and adopted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs mainly contains codification and language positioning clarifications. Dear House, The T/3514 in front of us. With the opening of several laws, the bill sets out clarifications and relies on practical experience in a number of areas which will help to improve the efficiency of administrative developments. Please support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-02-223	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am now asking Mr István György, State Secretary, if you would like to speak. [[Dr. István György: Yes.]] I would like to inform you, Mr Secretary of State, that you have a total period of 15 minutes in the debate and the closing. What you're going to use from this time, you're going to have so much less time. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-02-224	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, As was already detailed in the general debate, the bill before us includes minor or major amendments to 13 laws. The aim of the bill is to simplify and speed up the Hungarian administration system and administrative administration. The proposal also contributes to reducing administrative burdens and enforcing electronics efforts. As Mr Imre Vejkey said in his comments on behalf of the Legislative Committee, the bill contains two major amendments relating to the citizenship and the civil status process. During the general debate, I also said that one of the tasks of government agencies, in addition to the exercise of public authority and the performance of official duties, is, of course, to continuously monitor the legislation, its implementation in practice, and to make proposals if they find in any proceedings that there is a need to simplify it, or that customer comfort or legal harmony is better served than the current legislative environment. This was the case when the citizenship and registration department of the Budapest Capital Government Office collected the problems accumulated during the exercise, for which the legislation did not provide a clear answer, and these were summarised in the bill in these two areas. The 1993 LV on Hungarian citizenship The purpose of the amendment is therefore to clarify and clarify other existing legal institutions. Among other things, he notes that the date of birth and the Hungarian nationality of the parent at that time are important for the facts affecting the formation of Hungarian citizenship, even if the family relationship is only later. This is also an experience at the Government Office of Budapest's Capital City, which was even tried to be interpreted in a different court of law. By clarifying this, there will be a clear case law in the future. In addition, the amendment clarifies the rules on the withdrawal of nationality, as strengthening this institution as well as procedural instruments, provisions relating to data protection and data processing is a priority national security interest. The amendment and updating of Act I of 2010 on the Civil Registration Procedure serve the simplification and electronicisation of procedures in order to ensure that the administrative service of Hungarian citizens complies with the provisions of Article XXI. The expectations of the century. The amendment will allow them to switch to the whole procedure, but the administrative burden of the authority will be significantly reduced by removing the request for a suspension and the decision. For municipal authorities, the administrative service charges for the registration of an exceptional administrative or locational change in real estate registration, if it affects a large number of properties, constitute a one-off and significant additional budgetary burden. I mentioned, as an example in the general debate, that in a specific small settlement, the municipality had to pay an administrative fee of HUF 25 million and, on the basis of this awareness, the 1990 XCIII on levies. The amendment of the Act includes part of the legislative package, which reduces administrative burdens on the one hand and the financial burden on the other, as the bill maxifies the administrative service fee of HUF 6600 to be paid for each property in HUF 200,000. [[18.30]] So while the municipality had to pay 25 million forints out of 6600 forints earlier, under similar circumstances, this will mean a maximum fee of 200,000 forints. During the general debate, it came to light that the government was once again poking around in the pockets of the municipalities and taking away their revenue. Well, that is not the case, of course, because this revenue was not municipal revenue, but the state's income in connection with land administration procedures has always been, never trained municipal revenue. Dear House, Two amendments were tabled to the bill, which was the 2016 CLVI on State tasks in the development of tourism areas. The obligation to provide information related to the amendment of the Act concerned the abolition of an unfair burden and the extension of the deadline for compliance with the obligation. The National Tourism Development Strategy, adopted by the Government, set out in the Tourism 2.0 document, is a fundamental goal for Hungary to become the leading tourism area in Central Europe by 2030, and NTAK, the National Tourism Data Service Centre (NTAK) started its operation in 2019 to achieve this goal. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the amendment of the law on reporting obligations entered into force on 1 July 2021, since then the Hungarian Tourism Agency has proposed to extend it twice, first on 1 July 2022, and then on 1 January 2023, and now, in the current legislative context, the deadline for introduction is 1 July 2023, so after two accepted requests and amendments, the government no longer sees reason for further delay in this area. The existence of the means to provide information should not cause difficulties in purchasing and disproportionate burdens, as the software. VENDÉGEM Guests can be easily managed, even on mobile phones, so it does not necessarily increase the need for the service providers. By voting in favour of the amendment of the Tourism Act, the double use of the device will be terminated, as the already mentioned. Vendég Restaurants and the. VENDÉGEM Attractions. Software will also be able to fulfil the simplified invoice and receipt and reporting obligations under the VAT Act. As a result, the administrative burden of reporting agents will be reduced as well as costs, as software can also replace the online cash register as a physical tool using a suitable block printer. In addition, the MTÜ supports the transition process with a voluntary reporting test period and a 0-24 hour customer service. Dear Parliament, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, In view of the above, I would once again like to ask you to vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-02-225	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you that you will have 6 minutes and 42 seconds for further speeches and closing words. Dear House, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. The speeches are now taking place in the time frame on the agenda, the timeframes have already been published on the billboard. There is no possibility of a two-minute speech during the debate. I ask my fellow Members that someone would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I ask Mr. István György, Secretary of State, if you would like to make a closing statement. [[Dr. István György: No, thank you.]] No, thank you very much. The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. The Commission's reports and the summary amendment proposal signed in Budapest on 24 November 1986 between the Government of the Hungarian People's Republic and the Government of the Socialist Republic of the Czechoslovak Republic on the termination of the Convention on the regulation of railway traffic in the Hungarian-Czechoslovak Republic will now follow. The government referral is T/3087. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mrs Elias Boglarka, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2023-05-02-226	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that on 27 April 2023 the Legislative Committee discussed the termination of the Convention between the Government of the Hungarian People's Republic and the Government of the Socialist Republic of Czechoslovakia, signed in Budapest on 24 November 1986, on the abolition of the Convention on the regulation of rail traffic in the Hungarian-Czechoslovak Republic. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It adopted it by 33 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the bill is to abolish the convention on the regulation of rail traffic in Hungary-Czechoslovak, which was concluded by common accord between the Government of the Hungarian People's Republic and the Government of the Socialist Republic of Czechoslovakia on 24 November 1986. The agreement concluded in 1986 regulated the railway traffic between Hungary and the successor Slovakia. However, the Convention is now outdated, it is not suitable for dealing with relations between the two EU Member States, and there is no need to conclude a new convention, as EU law clearly resolves the issues covered by rail border agreements. The repeal of the Convention is without prejudice to the provisions of the Convention on the Control of Road, Rail and Water Traffic between the Republic of Hungary and the Slovak Republic, concluded in Bratislava on 9 October 2003. The Legislative Committee did not discuss an amendment, nor did it intend to amend itself. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-02-227	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I now ask Mr Péter Ágh, State Secretary of the Ministry of Construction and Transport, if you would like to speak. [[Peter Agh: No.]] No, thank you very much. I will inform you if you wish to make a closing statement, you will have a 15-minute timeframe. Ladies and gentlemen, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Committee on Foreign Affairs. The speeches will now take place in the time-frames on the agenda, which have already been published on the billboard. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. Again, I would like to ask Mr Péter Ágh, Secretary of State, if he would like to conclude. [[Peter Agh nods.]] Yes, he does. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-02-228	Mr President, I would just like to inform my fellow Members very briefly that, as we are approaching the end of the legislative process, we may be able to point out that it is indeed a proposal that is desirable and necessary to adopt. Perhaps the text of the bill and the retro sound of its name and its retro also indicate that there is an outdated legislation before us. In the future, the relationship between the two countries, rail transport, will be adequately regulated by the relevant directives of the European Union, and transport will be able to take place accordingly. I trust that our fellow Members will support us in adopting this legislation. As Congresswoman Boglárka Elijah said, this will be done in full agreement with Slovakia, by mutual agreement, so we will continue to work together with Slovakia to ensure that cooperation is appropriate in any area of rail or transport. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-02-229	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Next up is the 2015 CXLIII on public procurement. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Government referral T/3513. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Norbert Erdős, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go. [[18.40]]
u2023-05-02-230	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 27 April 2023, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2015 CXLIII on public procurement. T/3513. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution 46. By 27 votes in favour, 6 votes against and 4 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The 2015 CXLIII on public procurement A number of elements of the proposal to amend law before us are justified by Hungary's obligations arising from its membership of the European Union. In the current economic situation, very rapidly changing prices make it necessary for the legislator to provide for a derogation from the contract moratorium in the case of framework agreements and dynamic purchasing systems and to allow for faster contracting. The proposal includes a wider leeway to remedy infringements by the contracting authority, which could also simplify the legal implementation of public procurement. The new inefficiencies introduced by the proposal give the contracting authority the opportunity to refuse to conclude contracts in the case of tenders which are excessively high-priced or manipulative, but which are the most favourable outcome of the evaluation. During the procedure of the Legislative Committee, technical amendments were introduced in the bill, mainly to ensure the coherence of the legislative text. Dear House, In addition to the elements of EU legal amendment, the proposal also contains a number of regulatory elements that can help to achieve procedures more efficiently, faster and more flexible. In view of this, the proposal should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-02-231	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now ask the rapporteur, Deputy Minister Csaba Latorcai, Secretary of State, if you would like to speak. [[For signal:]] You'll be in the closet later. Okay, thank you. I would like to inform you that you will have a total time frame of 15 minutes for your speeches. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There are no two-minute comments during the debate, the timeframes are on the billboard. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone would like to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I now ask Csaba Latorcai, Deputy Minister of State, if you would like to make a closing statement. [[For signal:]] Yeah. There you go. You have the floor. Like I said, the time frame is 15 minutes.
u2023-05-02-232	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me now to include the 2015 CXLIII on public procurement. T/3513. At the end of the parliamentary hearing of the legislative proposal No.3 I should point out the importance of the bill in some sentences, as a summary. The primary objective of the bill amending the law on public procurement is to ensure that EU law on public procurement is implemented in all respects, while at the same time addressing the problems that have arisen in the application of domestic law. This proposal for amendment promotes, inter alia, action against unlawful conduct by allowing control bodies to act more effectively against infringements by means of new rules on ex officio remedies, while respecting legal certainty. The new right of inefficiency protects contracting entities from abusive competitive behaviour. Among the main elements of the amendment to the law, I would like to highlight the following. In order to prevent over-pricing and to better manage public funds, the failure to declare the procedure ineffective will be introduced, even if, taking into account the pricing of the most favourable offer, a contract would seriously violate the requirement for efficient and responsible management. It will become more flexible to restore the legality of public procurement procedures where this is detected by the contracting authority after transmission of the outcome of the procedure or if, in the course of the request for a preliminary dispute settlement, it recognises a breach of public procurement rules. The emergency rule under which a contract concluded under a framework agreement or a dynamic purchasing system does not require the ten-day contract moratorium is incorporated into the law. In this way, contracting entities can conclude contracts even faster on the basis of effective purchasing techniques in the current economic situation. The procurement arbitration panel may be initiated by the bodies defined by law on its own initiative. The amendment also introduces a new special rule aimed at ensuring that infringements established by the audit bodies can be brought before the Public Procurement Decision Committee within a sufficiently short period of time in order to avoid such initiatives being deemed to be delayed due to previous deadlines established for the date of learning. The provisions adopted by the European Union in its directly applicable acts adopted last year will also be put in place in the law to facilitate the implementation of the mandatory rules laid down for contracting authorities. Dear House, The Government of Hungary is doing everything in its power to improve the efficiency of domestic public procurement and increase transparency. Our efforts are not without results, and Hungary's public procurement and public procurement performance are among the best performing Member States on the basis of the latest data published by the European Commission in the so-called Single Market Scoreboard. With this bill, the government calls for the adoption of provisions to comply with the EU's obligation, implement obligations, meet the necessary legislative needs, implement public procurement procedures more efficiently, faster and more flexible, and support responsible public spending practices, based on the problems, experience and feedback that arise in the case of case law. In view of the fact that no amendments have been made to the bill, I presume that all Members of Parliament agree with these objectives. I trust that, on the basis of what has been said, the honourable Members and gentlemen will, with their vote, support the achievement of the objectives of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-02-233	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, fellow Members! The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Next up is the XXXIII of 2016 on the state project evaluation relationship and the amendment of certain related laws. Act and Act CXXV of 2018 on Government Administration The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Government referral T/3516. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Norbert Erdős, rapporteur of the committee. There you go. You have the floor. [[18.50]]
u2023-05-02-234	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, on 27 April 2023, the Legislative Committee discussed the legal status of State Project Evaluation and the amendment of certain related laws XXXIII. Act and Act CXXV of 2018 on Government Administration T/3516. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. It adopted it by 33 votes in favour, 4 votes against and 2 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of this bill is to lay down rules on data management and procedures in respect of declarations of conflict of interest and declarations of interest to be made by public project evaluators. A statement on personal relations related to the establishment of conflicts of interest in order to protect the EU budget more effectively will also be incorporated. The amendments serve the regular use of EU funds by submitting to public project evaluators a general declaration of conflict of interest and a declaration of interest when establishing a public project evaluation relationship. The bill also provides that the persons who are currently in the state project evaluation relationship should also submit their declarations following the entry into force of the amendment. The bill also lays down the necessary rules for the processing of statements and their content. As a result of the amendment, the Internal Audit and Integrity Directorate may also request and manage statements on the personal relationships of public project evaluators. The Legislative Committee has adopted an amendment to the proposal, which contained language positioning, codification and legal technical clarifications. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-02-235	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now ask the rapporteur, Deputy Minister Csaba Latorcai, Mr Secretary of State, if you would like to speak now. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. Then you have 15 minutes to speak in the debate and to say the closing word. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! No rapporteur was presented by the designated European Affairs Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. The time frame appeared on the billboard. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I ask my fellow Members that someone would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I'll ask Csaba Latorcai, Deputy Minister of State, if you'd like to close. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. I'll let you know, as I mentioned, your time frame is 15 minutes. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-02-236	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me, at the end of the parliamentary debate, to recap the objective of the bill before you: to strengthen the audit and control mechanisms used in the use of EU funds in order to protect the EU budget. I will not reveal anything new when I say that it is of particular importance for the Government of Hungary to use the available development resources, as in the 2014-2020 programming period, in the programming period 2021-2027 as effectively as possible and with a view to protecting the EU budget. This is why in the bill we proposed to amend the Act on Government Administration and the Law on State Project Evaluation and on the amendment of certain related laws. For these purposes, the Government has set up the Internal Audit and Integrity Directorate, in accordance with the commitments set out in the corrective measures taken to the European Commission, with the task of further strengthening the audit and control mechanisms and contributing to the proper use of EU assistance. From 15 November 2022, the Management Board, whose competence covers national authorities involved in the implementation of Union funds, shall verify the content of declarations of conflicts of interest and interest made by those involved in the implementation of programmes using Union grants, with the exception of public project evaluators. The content of the aid applications submitted for the use of EU funds is criticised by public project evaluators. A public project valuer may be a person who meets the conditions laid down in the law, which is based on having a fundamental right in a public body. I must stress that the effectiveness, transparency and independence of the public project evaluation system, which forms part of the development policy system, have been recognised on several occasions by the European Commission. From 15 November 2022, the Implementing Regulations for Union Development Programmes also require public project evaluators to make a general declaration of conflict of interest and a declaration of interest at the time of the establishment of a public project evaluation relationship or after the start of their public project evaluation activities. These rules have made it necessary to lay down clear rules on data processing and procedures in respect of declarations of conflict of interest and declarations of interest to be made by public project evaluators. The amendments contained in the bill serve the regular use of EU funds by making it necessary for public project evaluators to submit a general statement of conflict of interest and conflicts of interest when establishing a public project evaluation relationship. Persons who are currently in a state project evaluation relationship shall submit the declaration within 60 days of the entry into force of the amendment. Dear House, In order to fulfil Hungary's commitment, it is necessary to lay down a general authorisation clause in the amendment of the Act on Government Administration. On the basis of the new provision, the Government may provide for additional responsibilities for the Management Board at the level of a regulation in such a way that its elementary independence is not compromised or jeopardises the performance of its previous tasks. The bill also contains a number of additional proposals that meet practical needs, and I would point out, at the level of mention only, that the State Project Appraisal is obliged to keep the unique identification number received at the time of application confidential; as regards the declarations necessary for the establishment of the State Project Appraisal Service, it does not need to include the tax number at a later stage; and the employer's certificate issued by the employer in the context of fundamental rights will be able to further include the employer's salary or wages on the certificate in accordance with the document on the establishment of the fundamental rights relationship in the event of a new fundamental rights relationship. Dear Parliament, The Government of Hungary prioritises the protection of national and EU budgets, so we pay particular attention to the proper implementation of proposals funded from European Union funds, which serve the improvement of the quality of life of Hungarian businesses and, through this, the Hungarian families and the further economic development of Hungary. The purpose of the bill before you is to strengthen the audit and control mechanisms used in the use of EU funds in order to protect the EU budget. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Thank you for the supporting contributions so far, and I ask the Honourable Parliament to help achieve these objectives by adopting the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[19.00]]
u2023-05-02-237	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I salute my fellow Members. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on cybersecurity certification and cybersecurity surveillance and the final amendment proposal follow up. Government referral T/3314. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I therefore give the floor to Imre Vejkey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2023-05-02-238	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 27 April 2023, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/3314 on cybersecurity certification and cybersecurity surveillance. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. It's a decision 46. Act by 26 votes in favour, 3 votes against, with 6 abstentions. Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill covers two main subjects. On the one hand, it establishes a domestic framework for cybersecurity certification and, on the other hand, lays down cybersecurity requirements for operators in major sectors of economic life and introduces an official oversight system. The national cybersecurity certification framework shall ensure that, with regard to the types and types of information products and services increasingly used as a result of digitalisation transformation, the certification authority establishes cybersecurity requirements, requirements, evaluate and assess compliance with these requirements and procedures in accordance with a fixed methodology. According to the bill, the Supervisory Authority for Regulated Activities is responsible for monitoring the development of European cybersecurity certification systems in relation to the development of national cybersecurity certification systems, monitoring related standardisation processes and evaluating existing national cybersecurity certification systems. A further task of the SZTFH is to gather information on sectors and areas of expertise that are not covered by a European cybersecurity certification scheme and where greater cyber security is needed. In accordance with the changes made during the legislative committee procedure, the SZTFH as certification authority would be entitled to carry out official controls on conformity assessment bodies and the issuers of declarations of conformity in the framework of its cybersecurity certification oversight tasks. Of course, it is essential that the representative of the SZTFH is able to demonstrate himself and his right to control. In addition, the maximum cybersecurity supervisory fee shall be recorded. Dear House, A single certification system, which is also in line with EU rules, designed by the bill, contributes to increasing the performance and competitiveness of the domestic infocommunications sector. Please support T/3314. Bill No. 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-02-239	Thank you, Congressman Imre Vejkey. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör.
u2023-05-02-240	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to highlight four amendments compared to the original proposal. Firstly, the reduction of the cyber security supervisory fee for medium and large enterprises to a tenth of a tenth, i.e. the maximum fee will be HUF 10 million for businesses with annual turnover of at least HUF 66 billion. Secondly, it is indirectly beneficial for municipalities to ensure that public lighting licensed service providers do not have to comply with cybersecurity requirements. Thirdly, businesses will have more time, plus six months to prepare to meet cybersecurity requirements. According to this, they will have to have their own systems audited by 31 December 2025, and another competitive advantage will be linked to the use of certificates. According to the amendments, in order to protect certified products and to prevent abuse, the draft prohibits the use of indications which indicate that the product or service is unduly certified. These are, in our view, positive and forward-looking amendments. That's why we support them. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-02-241	Thank you very much. Thank you, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. You used 1 minute 20 seconds, and it's easy to calculate if you subtract 1 minute 20 seconds from 15 minutes, how much is left at the end. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I would like to ask if someone would like to take the opportunity to speak within the given time frame. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any sign on the screen. The debate is therefore closed. I ask Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, you have plenty of time to comment. [[On the signal of Csaba Dömötör:]] Thank you very much. He told me everything. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The debate on the Commission's report on the free ownership of certain state-owned assets follows. Government referral T/3520. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, if you would like to speak now. [[For signal:]] It says it's not right now. That's why we're moving on. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Economic Committee. The speeches will now take place in the time frame indicated on the table. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I would like to ask if someone would like to make use of the opportunity to speak in the given time frame. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application, so the debate is closed. I would like to ask Secretary Dömötör if he would like to comment. [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain health, health insurance and pharmaceutical legislation and the summary amendment proposal follow up. Government referral T/3512. is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I therefore give the floor to Mr Csaba Nagy, rapporteur of the committee. You have the floor.
u2023-05-02-242	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 28 April 2023, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/3512 amending certain laws on health, health insurance and pharmaceutical matters. Bill No. 1. [[19.10]] The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 27 votes in favour, 7 votes against and 5 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The Hungarian government and Fidesz-KDNP are committed to providing the best possible health care services for the population, so it is also necessary to ensure modern regulation and digitalisation. A key government priority is the continuous monitoring of health conditions and the necessary changes, fine-tuning and updating of regulations. The bill before us also serves this purpose. The proposal has affected a large number of areas, some 155 amendments are included in this bill. Obviously, I do not wish to mention all of them, but I would like to say a few words about the most important ones. Our first point is human reproduction. The supplement to the law sets out the detailed rules for fertility promotion. The purpose of this amendment is to ensure that certain diseases, such as pre-oncological indications, are available to the data subjects for the purpose of freezing gametes for the purpose of subsequent reproduction. The law on the medical service will also be amended in this proposal. The rules governing the establishment of the relationship of professionals involved in reproduction procedures should be laid down in such a way that they are subject to the Labour Code. Thus, healthcare workers and specialists who used to work for private service providers do not need to reduce their income if they do not. Under its rules, there would be a reduction. Re-regulation of the death test is also an important issue in the proposal. This proposal contains the legislative framework in order to allow the rescue officer to carry out an on-the-spot examination of persons who have died of natural causes outside the institution on the basis of the rules laid down in the Government Decree, without having a medical presence. In order to recognise the processes of domestic pharmaceuticals and research and development, the proposal will also allow medicinal products for which the marketing authorisation holder is not only authorised to produce medicinal products for packaging or batch release, and if the first authorisation for placing the medicinal product on the market has been issued by the Hungarian authority, the National Institute for Pharmacy and Food Health, the requested indication should not have to be supported in at least three EU Member States. It is also important to mention that access rights will also be clarified in the EEW, the Electronic Health Service Space. The legislative amendment will allow hospitals in Szilló, Siklós and Harkány, among others, to develop further with the help of a precise legislative environment in order to provide more effective, clinical health care to the population of the region. Most of the amendments adopted at the Committee on Legislative Affairs are intended to address codification and language positioning. To sum up, by adopting the proposal, we can help create a coherent legal environment for health in order to ensure that the Hungarian population is provided with the best possible healthcare services, and the amendments are aimed at achieving changes in terms of deregulation and regulatory development. I believe that the bill I have briefly expressed and the amendments adopted at the Committee on Legislative Affairs are all of an important purpose, since they will make a major contribution to the development of Hungarian health care. That is why I ask this House to support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-02-243	Thank you very much, Congressman Csaba Nagy. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak now. [[On Dr. Péter Takács' signal:]] It indicates no; then we move on. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Welfare Committee. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I'm going to ask if someone would like to speak in the time frame indicated on the board. [[There's no such signal.]] I do not see an application, so the debate is closed. I'll ask the author again if he'd like to comment. [[On Dr. Péter Takács' signal:]] Mr. Secretary of State says no. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the laws necessary for a more accessible consumer protection and the discussion of the draft amending proposal follow. Government referral T/3517. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the expressed minority opinion will be presented in the debate. I therefore give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee.
u2023-05-02-244	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 27 April 2023, the Legislative Committee discussed the amendment of the laws required for more accessible consumer protection, T/3517. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 25 votes in favour, 5 votes against and 6 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The government's new consumer policy is active consumer protection, which means at the same time promoting action against infringements and voluntary enforcement as two of the most powerful tasks of consumer protection. Active consumer protection is based on the availability of digital consumer protection, child protection, consumer protection and support for the development of uniform case-law. In times of rapid technological development, digitalisation and market changes, it is necessary to ensure the enforcement of consumers' rights with effective and rapid assistance and a secure institutional system. This bill seeks to meet these objectives. Main elements: establishing the regional competence of the conciliation bodies; reviewing the selection rules of the conciliatory panel presidents and members; introducing an online hearing; taking a conciliation board decision containing the obligation in matters of a value not exceeding HUF 200,000; and amending further procedural rules. The Legislative Committee adopted an amendment to the proposal, which included additions to codification and technical clarifications. Dear House, If the bill is adopted, the functioning of alternative dispute resolution can become more known, simpler and more transparent by amending the consumer protection law. In view of this, the proposal should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2023-05-02-245	Thank you very much, Congressman László Salacz. The minority opinion will now be presented within a seven-minute timeframe. I give the floor to Congressman László Varju.
u2023-05-02-246	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, In the debate of the Committee on Legislative Affairs and in the previous statements, I think it has become clear that, in addition to the government's ambitions, or accepting them, they are seeking simpler and more transparent operations, but we see a lot of shortcomings in this. Especially when, in the midst of such a livelihood crisis, in such an inflationary environment, in the economic situation, there is a need for genuine consumer protection in Hungary, and to do so, the proposal presented and the intention that is being expressed are very few. It is not acceptable that the conciliation bodies are basically in favour of the representative bodies of businesses, since there is a controversial situation that will continue to sharpen the political bias that exists against chambers. [[19.20]] Consumers may also feel subjective that the body cannot be impartial towards them or against the undertaking that produced the product, as it represents it. We do not agree with the proliferation of ministerial powers, we should give greater weight to civil and consumer representation. According to the proposals of the Association of Stakeholders, only one third of the members of the panel will be proposed, while we believe that it should be raised to 50 percent. It is unfortunate to postpone the three-year term of assignments to date for four years now. However, information on conciliation bodies is so weak that the government could do much more than that, because otherwise it could be a good form of the body representing the interests of consumers and of the relatively rapid decision-making process there. In addition to criticism of conciliation bodies, there should be a fundamental change in the area of consumer protection, that the establishment of the institution of the General Consumer Ombudsman is one of our proposals, and that in some particularly sensitive areas, such as last year, I believe that we have all seen that the debate and lack of transparency of energy bills, despite all efforts, cannot be achieved. There are tremendous numbers of people who do not understand the reason why they have seven times their bills, and there is no place for them to ask questions about them, or make a new decision in this sense. That is why we have proposed that the creation of an energy consumer service as a priority area is important in this respect. Thus, overall, we do not consider what this bill has set out to be satisfactory and appropriate, and much more needs to be done in such an economic situation, in such an inflation environment, in order to protect consumers. Therefore, we could not support the bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2023-05-02-247	Thank you very much, Congressman Varju. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Yes.]] Yeah. I give the floor to Secretary Robert Répássy.
u2023-05-02-248	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Achieving the objectives set out in the Government decision on consumer protection based on digital consumer protection, child protection, access to consumer protection and support for the development of uniform case-law made it necessary to fully review the domestic consumer protection acquis and to carry out the legislative tasks identified as a result. This includes a bill amending the necessary legislation for more accessible consumer protection, which was drawn up primarily on the basis of practical experience and proposals from conciliation bodies. As I have already said in the general debate, the title of the bill is not just a slogan, but it actually means that there will be an increase in the place of administration for the consumer, i.e. consumer protection. On the basis of the bill before Parliament, in order to strengthen the professionalism of conciliation bodies and make the funding of conciliation bodies more efficient, the bodies operate with regional competence following the amendment, but this does not mean a step backwards for consumers, on the contrary, it means an increase in the place of administration. In fact, the bill ensures that consumers decide for themselves which city with county right to be heard in the area of competence of the relevant conciliation body. The possibility of a personal interview should therefore be provided not only in the regional centres but also in the other settlements, which are not regional centres, as well as in the cities with county rights, which do not belong to the county of the county of the county. To clarify the situation with a simple example: the current regulations allow for a personal interview in 20 places, in the capital and in 19 county seats. On the basis of the amendment, the 8 regional centres, the 12 other county seats and the 7 other county cities together represent 27 opportunities for consumers, which represents a 35 percent increase, but even that is not all, because the consumer can choose to participate online from the couch or from the desk at home. This is certainly a step forward in terms of consumer interest and accessibility. By adopting the law before Parliament, the proposal to amend the legislation necessary for a more accessible consumer protection, in line with the objectives set out in consumer policy, modernises the rules on conciliation bodies operating for almost 25 years and performing alternative dispute resolution tasks. Adapting to the requirements of the digital age, it therefore makes the online hearing general. This will make it easier for consumers and businesses to participate in the hearing, but, as I referred to earlier, it does not mean that online hearings are exclusive. In the case of well-founded consumer needs, I believe that it is a historic step towards the functioning of the conciliation bodies for a quarter of a century that the body can make a binding decision on it, even in the absence of a declaration on the subject of the undertaking, up to a limit of HUF 200,000. As a result, quick and free conciliation procedures can become a substantive alternative to the judicial path and can make a significant contribution to reducing the burden on courts. We are confident that the amendment will also help the traditional conciliation bodies to increase the number of settlements, as was observed following the introduction of similar changes to the Financial Reconciliation Board. The amendment also concerns the rules for the selection of conciliation panel members. The general debate raised the issue of strengthening civil society organisations for consumer protection with regard to conciliation bodies. The amendment also settles this issue as, in the new four-year term starting in 2024, associations representing consumer interests can propose one third of the members of the conciliation panel. The proposed persons must comply with the eligibility criteria laid down in the Consumer Protection Act. It is a new requirement that the President and the member of the conciliation body must take a conciliation panel's basic examination within one year of the mandate. The primary objective of this is to ensure uniform application of national law in the field of professional management, since, on the basis of free training, board presidents and members will be able to respond adequately to the substantive and procedural problems they may face in the conduct of proceedings and decision-making. This is not a traditional training which sets out and takes account of legislative provisions, but a transfer and justification of interpretation and interpretation of law-interpretation and enforcement issues in line with legislative objectives. Hearing and accepting proposals from civil society organisations, business advocacy organisations and conciliation bodies, a number of clarifications were made in the norm on the basis of the amendment proposed to the Legislative Committee. We have therefore made it clear that in cities with county rights in the area of competence of the conciliation body, where the consumer so requests, a personal hearing will be held as necessary. In addition, on the basis of the TAB amendment, the conciliation body will have the possibility to amend or revoke its non-discussed legislative decision on one occasion within one year of the communication. For reasons of legal certainty, it will not be possible to revoke or amend the decision if it violates the right acquired or exercised in good faith. As regards the financial support of the conciliation bodies, it has been clarified that financing will be reduced, not by the amount actually received by the undertakings in the decisions containing the obligation but by the amount actually received by the undertakings in the previous year, since in practice there may be a difference between the procedural costs established and incurred and, where appropriate, taking into account the amount received. [[19.30]] In addition to the above, minor language positioning and codification clarifications have been made in the text. During the general debate and the meeting of the Legislative Committee, issues of close relevance to the bill, but also concerning consumer protection, to which it is justified to respond, were raised. With regard to the question of the efficiency of the functioning of the consumer protection institution system, I believe it is necessary to draw attention to the fact that, in addition to the Ministry of Justice responsible for the professional management of consumer protection and the government offices in the metropolitan and county of the consumer authority, the conciliation bodies are extremely committed to protecting the interests of consumers and protecting their rights. The objective of this amendment is clearly to strengthen the reconciliation bodies, one of the most important actors in the institutional system. In order to achieve a truly effective and effective consumer protection, a high level of professional work and cooperation is needed from all those involved in the public institution system of consumer protection and, in terms of their responsibilities, they complement each other, help consumers to solve and prevent different problems. Consumer protection is not a static area, the government is aware that it is always necessary to be on the lookout for effective action against illegal businesses, and I can promise that this will continue to be the case, whether legislative or enforcement intervention is necessary. It has also been mentioned on the opposition side that consumer protection is a political discipline tool and that some companies receive low fines. I would point out that consumer protection is not a political discipline tool, and that the consumer protection authority is acting within a strictly defined legal framework. In one case, the amount of the fine shall be determined taking into account the criteria set out in the Consumer Protection Act. These include, for example, the nature, weight, extent and duration of the infringement, the number of consumers affected by the infringement, the range of harm to their interests, the extent of the infringement. As regards criticisms of low fines, it is enough to refer only to a combined fine of over half a billion forints imposed on price stop control or to a fine of several hundred million forints imposed on a foreign-based airline known to you as well. During the debate on the bill, honourable Members agreed with the objectives of the bill before us, since there was no criticism of the development of alternative dispute resolution. In view of all this, I ask you to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-02-249	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Répássy Róbert. We're gonna have to take some of the 15 minutes off. Dear House, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I would like to ask if someone would like to take the opportunity to speak in the time frame indicated on the table. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application, so the debate is closed. I'll ask the author if you'd like to comment. [[Dr. Répássy on Róbert's signal:]] He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the legal relationship with the Hungarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the second half of 2024 and on the submission of certain related provisions and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow. Government referral T/3315. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate, and I will therefore give the floor to the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Boglárka Elias.
u2023-05-02-250	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that on 27 April 2023 the Legislative Committee discussed the relationship between T/3315 on the role of the Hungarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the second half of 2024 and on certain related provisions. Bill No. 1. This is the first bill that lies before us now, which aims to prepare properly for the Hungarian Presidency. The Legislative Committee's summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 27 votes in favour, 8 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal before us proposes that, in order to effectively and effectively carry out certain tasks relating to the EU Presidency, prepared professionals in the wider public sector should be able to establish a new legal relationship under their fundamental rights and thus use their expertise as well as their working time and additional time to carry out the tasks of the Presidency at an impeccable and high level. The new legal relationship can thus enable a significant part of the Presidency's tasks to be carried out by professionals already working in the public sector, which may reduce the temporary extra human resources needed by the public administration during the Presidency period. For example, as regards the National University of Public Service, the bill clarifies that the university can be assigned to the management of outstanding professionals, primarily with practical professional experience, at the same time, and I think it is important to emphasise this, in specific cases only with a scientific degree. The Legislative Committee has adopted an amendment to the proposal, which, in addition to linguistic and technical clarifications, includes amendments to the law on the enforcement of the courts and to the Government Administration Act, in particular on the possibilities and obstacles to appointment and the termination and termination of individual legal relationships. If possible, I would also like to present the summary report of the Committee on European Affairs. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-02-251	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Elias Boglarka. Now I'm going to ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[Dr. Répássy on Róbert's signal:]] I give the floor to Secretary Robert Répássy.
u2023-05-02-252	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The basic aim of the bill is to create a new type of legal relationship in order to perform effectively and effectively the tasks related to the Hungarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the second half of 2024 and to integrate the new legislation into the legal system without interruption. The bill is fully capable of achieving this objective and there is no need for clarification in this area. Dear House, The bill also includes CXXXII of 2011 on the National University of Public Service and on higher education in administrative, police and military matters. the amendment of a law, the rules for the appointment of which were criticised during the debate. I wish to emphasise that the focus of the concept of regulation is the practical development of the university's educational activities. The vast majority of the university's training courses in comparison with other higher education institutions, resulting from its basic task, require significantly greater demonstration and integration of practical professional experience in education. The best way to achieve this goal is to enable the university to involve as many practitioners as possible in its activities. The increased presentation of practical experience in education should not be without the possibility of involving practitioners in university management positions, of course in the presence of an appropriate scientific record and degree. [[19.40]] The proposal therefore does not restrict the university's appointment practice but offers an additional opportunity. Thus, in addition to the high level of theoretical knowledge, adapted to the university's core task, it remains necessary to involve at least such high levels of specific practical experience and expertise. Combining these two elements will allow the provision of the highest level of administrative, police and military training and training of professionals ready to meet the challenges. Dear House, The bill includes the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration. the amendment of the law. In this context, it deserves to be highlighted in order to remove the misconceptions that the salary of the Administrative State Secretarys has been established by the Prime Minister since 18 June 2022, so this option is not extended to them by this amendment. The amendment only makes so much difference that, like the salaries of ministers and State Secretarys, the salary of the Administrative Secretarys of State is to be determined on 1 July each year. In addition, the provisions on judicial enforcement are tightened up in accordance with the summarised amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee. Thus, for example, the rules of disciplinary proceedings are tightened on the basis of the amendment, the scope of disciplinary offences is extended, together with the conditions for the continuation of the enforcement service for another seven years after seven years, and the amendment provides for compulsory professional training for executives and deputy executives every two years, but according to the amendment, the authority expects the enforcement authorities to report by 31 January each year on their annual enforcement activities and a separate reporting obligation if another enforcement officer has been replaced. I ask this House to vote in favour of the adoption of this proposal. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-05-02-253	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Répássy Róbert. We've got 10 minutes and 54 seconds to close. On the basis of the scenario and the house rules, I am now able to give the floor to Mrs Elias Boglárka, rapporteur for the Committee on Selected European Affairs.
u2023-05-02-254	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The Committee on European Affairs held a detailed debate on the subject at its meeting on 4 April 2023. Our committee acted as a designated committee and, in the absence of an amendment proposal, we reviewed some elements of the bill and the preparations for the second half of 2024 Hungarian EU presidency. It was said that in the Parliament, the Speaker appointed the Committee on European Affairs a regular review of Parliament's parliamentary audit and coordination body on government EU presidency preparation, as well as the issues related to the EU Presidency, will also take place within the framework of our committee in Parliament. In the Committee's view, the well-prepared Bureau staff and the Presidency team are an important prerequisite for a high level of performance of Presidency tasks, and, as we intend to do in 2011 in 2024, we must all strive to ensure that the most prepared experts are in these positions and that they are in charge of these tasks. The bill therefore seeks to ensure the additional value needed for the additional tasks. We also dealt in detail with why the EU presidency can last until 30 June 2025, so six months after the expiry of the Hungarian Presidency. In fact, the answer is simple, perhaps I could say that it is self-evident, because not all EU dossiers can be presented on the last day of the Presidency, and in many cases follow-up and follow-up work is also necessary. In the context of the Presidency's preparation, it was also mentioned that the established EU presidency government committee, as the supreme political strategic body, has already been chaired by the Prime Minister. The political responsibility for the preparation of the Presidency lies with Minister Judit Varga, and under the guidance of the Minister, on the one hand, Mr Zoltán Kovács is responsible for the budget, organisation, communication and conduct of the Presidency, on the other hand, Mr János Bóka is responsible for the political preparation and conduct of the Presidency, so that the trio Presidency programme and the Hungarian Presidency programme are completed by the deadline. Perhaps the biggest difference compared to the first half of 2011 Presidency, which we also talked about is that this will be a transitional Presidency, an institutional transitional Presidency, perhaps we could put it this way, because we expect fewer legislative dossiers, but also more political discussions that are necessary in the context of institutional changes. So the European Affairs Committee closed the detailed debate on 4 April and submitted its report. With all due respect, I would like to ask you to support the proposal before us. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-05-02-255	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Elias Boglarka. I now give the floor to Mr Balázs Barkóczi, who will present the minority opinion of the committee.
u2023-05-02-256	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Of course, Hungary's position as an EU Presidency should be a celebration, but it is clear to everyone that the current Hungarian government is incapable of making the current Presidency a success story starting in June 2024. Hungary is today an isolated country of Paris within the EU, with record inflation, broken diplomatic relations, frozen EU resources, without a serious European ally. As far as the current draft law is concerned, the Presidency-in-Office should now address EU priorities, as the Swedish Presidency-in-Office, for example, puts security, i.e. strengthening the unity of the EU, increasing the competitiveness of the Union, the green and energy transition, and democratic values and legal certainty, which are the foundations of the Union, at the centre of the Presidency. Hungary, on the other hand, is a driver of all four areas listed above and a disruptor of the unity of the Union. On the other hand, let us look at some of the priorities of the Hungarian Presidency: future generation, youth policy, children's rights, children's and young people's spiritual health. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that, while the European Commission has initiated infringement proceedings against Hungary because of the so-called child protection law based on an invalid and unsuccessful referendum, the young Hungarians have left their country in the last 12 years in search of foreign prosperity, and the government is doing nothing to investigate paedophile crimes that seriously affect the consciences of the churches, so this is nothing more than squashing in this form. Interreligious dialogue. Of course, we understand that KDNP with no independent support had to get something from the cake of the current presidency, but I beg you to give at least one example of any domestic persecution in recent years. Obviously they do not know, because Christian churches that are intertwined with power are not persecuted or persecuted at home, but they can now, for example, take local schools, or municipal property, to announce, so it is nothing more than polish. Finally, it's about the environment. Talking about the environment in a country that has been subject to infringement procedures in the field of air quality and water quality, where there are stated reasons to announce a moratorium on the supply of small residential power plants, where the investments of the Prime Minister's buddies are free to destroy the vicinity of Lake Fertő, Lake Venice and Lake Balaton, where wind power plants are banned and not even a separate Ministry of the Environment, and from which they are about to make a battery assembly plant, again, is a substitute act and powdering. In addition, it is incomprehensible how the draft amendment of the National University of Public Service and the Law on Public Administration, Police and Military Higher Education came into force. This is probably about the old, well-established government stunt again, which means they're trying to get a fidest buddy of a university position who, according to the current rules, wouldn't comply. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Just a moment, please. Not to mention the fact that, by creating a new EU presidency, the government can distribute greasy jobs and positions without any type of competition to carry out the Presidency's tasks. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] For the above reasons, we do not support the draft law. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President.
u2023-05-02-257	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is now up to the Members to take part in their speeches within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I'll ask who wants to comment. [[For signal:]] I see on the display, I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes. [[19.50]]
u2023-05-02-258	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Before the agenda, we have already had a debate on the regulations on executives, by the fact that György Schadl and the entire presidency of the executive faculty have resigned. But it was just a furry suggestion that a TAB modification would be involved in implementing regulations. Dear Secretary of State, Here, over the past many years, there has been a system that has practically been able to provide a breeding ground for an extensive mafia activity. Your predecessor, former Deputy Minister of Justice, Pál Völner, according to the prosecutor's office, has established a corruption relationship with György Schadl, the executive mob leader, and the Hungarian society has actually experienced that the Ministry of Justice, which should be the depositary of the fight against corruption, has practically served the executive mafia. We have found that in recent years the face of the legislation on implementation has been the man who, by the way, carried out everything György Schadl asked him to do in exchange for bribes, in a very vile manner; he performed it by using his influence, using his relationship system according to the D.A.'s office, using his position. This has caused a huge tragedy in the country, and not in a fundamentally financial way, but we all know how many thousands of families, how many thousands of Hungarians' lives have been ruined by corrupt executives. Over the past few years, we have had several debates, and you have acknowledged, by the way, that the law on this matter is bleeding out of a thousand wounds, and you have also referred to the fact that these laws can indeed be amended. It has already been mentioned, Prime Minister, at the hour of immediate questioning, he called on Members to do so if they have a well-intentioned amendment in this regard. Well, I did make my proposals just after the debate that took place last summer, which allowed me to replace György Schadl. This was voted out on two occasions by the Committee on Justice and voted out on two occasions by the Committee on Legislative Affairs. We also saw that Mr Jámbor had a proposal for a committee of inquiry, and that you and Mr Toroczkai voted against a proposal for a decision, which would have meant a more comprehensive amendment, was also voted against. So basically everything. Now, compared to this, a one-night legislative committee amendment has been submitted to the Act on Enforcement, Mr. Secretary of State. I watched it because I couldn't be present at the TAB meeting, I watched this charade live. You were just talking about the fact that it is not worth doing cosmetics, it is not worth whittling this law; that is exactly what you have done. Tell me, Secretary of State, do you think that this is the way to legislate, to amend the relevant law, that you want to settle this issue with a overnight TAB modifier in a law that is not in any way related to it? Is that what you expect from all those people who have faced this mafia activity, or are you continuing to fight for your family, your family's wealth, that you feel so much responsibility? You have repeatedly shifted the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice. In my speech before today's agenda, I underlined that it is your government's adopted decree that your boss, Minister Judit Varga, is responsible for initiating legislation on implementation. Why doesn't Judi Varga make the proposals that are necessary to deal with these serious problems, which you have recognised and which have brought to light by practice? You will not take such steps, Madam Secretary, so do you not feel this responsibility? I also asked before the agenda, Mr Secretary, who will if Madam Secretary does not wish to deal with this? So can you expect anything from the government to initiate a comprehensive legislative amendment, or can we say that it will initiate the preparation of a new law in relation to the system of implementation? Is that gonna happen? So you see this kind of activity? Because I see the Justice Department washing their hands as if they had nothing to do with this job and this situation. I think that it is outrageous that this proposal is introduced in this way, but I would add that, if the proposals themselves are insufficient or insufficient, let us put them a little more sportingly, overall, I can say that if they are late and are outrageous from the point of view of the procedure, they will, of course, take the relevant law in the right direction, so that, in itself, we consider these proposals to be correct. Allow me, Mr. Secretary, although these are, in themselves, good proposals, but they do not go beyond what you, by the way, did not consider justified in cosmetics. So I feel like he doesn't deal with the real problems, and he certainly doesn't answer the serious questions that a lot of people have said, and that shower, I think it's in your electronic mailbox, but it's safe in mine. I'm expected by those affected to expect families in a tragic situation to have something to say, to show some hope of how these people can protect their family's wealth. In this connection, I would like to ask the Secretary of State for some sort of responsible statement. Please establish in some way the hope that the government will perceive that there have been very serious omissions; the government senses that fundamental changes are needed here, and that they are not made only with TAB modifiers submitted at night, but in some way there is a comprehensive amendment to the law, and in cases where it has also been stressed by the Secretary of State, when corrupt executives have been shown to have illegally taken away people's assets, there must also be an opportunity to indemnify them. And I agree with Mr Secretary of State, the debt must be paid, but the illegal [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] People who have been hurt like villains must be compensated. I hope we can get some kind of positive answer. I apologize and thank you for your patience, Mr. President.
u2023-05-02-259	Thank you very much, Congressman László Keresztes. I'll ask... [[For signal:]] There's more, yes. Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa's comment, the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2023-05-02-260	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm sorry, I just want to respond quickly to DK's anti-religious outbursts. We could always get used to it, we can remember that you did not prepare the 2011 Hungarian Soros Presidency in any way, and it was only a long six months after the 2010 government change, in less than a year. It has become a fantasticly good programme, and a lot of results have been included in the legislation of the Union since then, and a lot of dossiers have been completed during the Hungarian Presidency. Let us not forget, honourable Member, that your fellow MEPs and friends there are being taken in handcuffs every day because they have accepted suitcases of money. Klára Dobrev's friends and fellow parties are being taken away in various corruption scandals in Brussels. After that, you will say about the EU Presidency that the Hungarian state is unable to organise this and that we would not be ready to conduct a great EU Presidency. The anti-church outbursts and anti-religious outbursts have been used to by the Democratic Coalition. If I had to say one thing, you asked for examples: you were the ones who banned the confessional secret in a bill, not even the Communists were willing to do so. One, yes, honourable Member, those were the Nazis. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-02-261	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I give the floor to Congressman Balázs Barkóczi.
u2023-05-02-262	Thank you very much. Although I think that after the last sentence, Congressman has become unworthy of me to say anything to him. On the one hand, no one wanted to ban the confessional secret, so I'd like to keep that in mind. At the same time, I would like to point out to Congressman that there was an era in Europe called enlightenment. This also reached Hungary with a small phase delay. It had figures like György Bessenyei, Ferenc Kazinczy; my great personal favorite, such as József Kármán. Let me share so much with you, as you are a childish father, that my little girl is called Fanni after the tradition of Fanni, which I think is one of the best novels in the world. Enlightenment was built on the freedom to criticize everyone, so it's not an attack. If I criticize someone or tell them, for example, that you now submit such a law, that in my constituency, the Salkaházi Sára Elementary School can be declared by the church. Now, the majority of the body of representatives of the local government rejected this. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] So we don't even give the rest of the municipal property to the church, but they put them in this position, for example, so you confuse criticism with attack. On the other hand, what do we see that really is an attack? What we're seeing is that there are untested paedophile crimes that you're sweeping off the table in a single motion, and there's even a case where the victim is brought to justice for inflicted reasons that someone's right to a personal good reputation has been violated. These are what are happening in Hungary today. This isn't an attack, Congressman. And about the handcuffs, you just said Klára Dobrev, but I could say just as much that Tamás Deutsch or Balázs Hidvégi's friends, let's not joke. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Partner...]] You said your friends, Congressman. The difference between Hungary and the Union is that in the EU, if a person commits a corruption crime, yes, it is taken in handcuffs, and here your former party partner, the prosecutor's office, led by Péter Polt, is acquitted. They steal money in the trade, which is why, among other things, it does not come from the Union. Thank you very much. [[20.00]]
u2023-05-02-263	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I'm gonna ask the author, but I don't have to ask, because it says yes. You have the floor.
u2023-05-02-264	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I do not wish to argue with Mr Balázs Barkóczi's view of the world. Indeed, he has a worldview foundation that he has just presented here. But we can also count what you said about the relationship between the European Union and Hungary as the basis of the worldview: the Union is good, the Hungarian government is bad. That's pretty much how you describe this worldview. This world view is schematic, to put it mildly. As to the mention of the pariah, I am pleased that you mentioned that word, because right now the president of your party is the largest pariah in Hungarian politics. For example, his own allies, the opposition parties with which he started on an election list, flee from him, consider him a pariah, and are reluctant to cooperate with him. So if there really is a pariah in Hungarian politics, it is called Ferenc Gyurcsány. He's your party president. But a much more important issue is that, as a result of the amendment of the law, a legal relationship will be created that will help the European Union's second half presidency in 2024. I ask you, if you still have a little bit of patriotism left in you, then help Hungary to successfully perform its current presidency in the European Union. Of course, if you don't help us, we're still going to do this job. Nevertheless, I think it would be useful to have Hungary's fans and not its back-up fans, but it is quite difficult to expect from you, because in recent years I have not experienced much support from Hungary on any European Union issue. With regard to the implementing amendments: Mr Keresztes, I also tried to point out in the debate before today's agenda that, if anyone is critical of judicial execution because it is legitimate that criticism of judicial execution is being made, then I would ask everyone not to question judicial execution itself, namely the need for judicial enforcement, because, since the world is a world, justice has been in place since then, if justice is not implemented, the decisions of the court must be carried out by an executive, an executor. We can't change that. It would be very simple if court decisions were always implemented by everyone, because then there would be no need for judicial enforcement. But as long as there is a need for judicial execution, this is a necessary activity. It is obviously the responsibility of the Parliament, the responsibility of the government, how it regulates enforcement procedures and how it regulates the enforcement organization. In this bill, the amendments tabled by the Legislative Committee do not relate to the enforcement procedure, but to the enforcement body. So this amendment changes organisational rules. This, as you said, is a step in the right direction. You yourself have said that there is, in the end, progress, and there are forward-looking proposals. I also believe that tightening the disciplinary responsibility or reporting obligations of executives is the right step. What I was referring to is that there is no need to make any amendments to the law, or that there is no need to amend the law now, that is to force the renewal of the executive board. It doesn't need to be renewed, because that's what happened. Indeed, it would have been appropriate for the executive faculty to take advantage of the legislative possibility of recalling its President or Presidency by two thirds of the votes. This could have been done by the executive staff, but he didn't. Now this has been done, and now we will finally have a renewal. I believe that the law allows for self-correction that if a professional organisation elects a president and the president is prosecuted, this person may be recalled or otherwise removed. So it wasn't the laws that were missing, but unfortunately the will was lacking in the members of the Court Executive Faculty. Now perhaps this will has been born. There's one more thing I want to tell you. With regard to the criticism of implementation and the different signalling structures, I say: the suggestion, the use in general, that all executives are corrupt, of course, is not true. It is only against those who have the right to be accused and prosecuted. So I would also like to ask that we do not exaggerate on this issue in the interests of the rule of law and the viability of judicial implementation. Corruption has arisen in connection with the appointment of certain members of the executive faculty, but if there is a violation of the law in relation to the proceedings of the executives, there is a way to do so, the enforcement objection, the enforcement suit and, in some cases, the supervisory procedure of the Supervisory Authority for Controlled Activities. These are all instruments which can keep the executioners' activities legally in place. So there's a lot of legal means for someone to be able to assert the feeling, the perceived or real objection, that an enforcement procedure is illegal. And yet another very important issue, which has also been mentioned in the debate before the agenda: it is not right for any Member of Parliament to make it seem that only the laws need to be changed, and then the debtors have the hope that they do not have to repay their debts. You have used the word "hope," Congressman, I have written myself directly that you have used the word "hope." The question is what hope he wants to give to those who owe. What hope? That they don't have to pay the debt? This hope cannot be taken seriously by any Member of Parliament, because in the event that enforcement is justified and lawful, each delay, every failure to perform, is, unfortunately, causing a new and new cost. The starry sky has already gone up the execution costs that will eventually be laid on the debtor's neck because many debtors listen to those who claim to change the laws, one or two enforcers have to be dismissed, and then they will not have to pay the debt. Please make it very clear that you do not intend to relieve people of legitimate and legitimate debts at your host hour or wherever they turn to you. That's not your intention. We can't promise that, and we can't promise that. No one's sentences can be interpreted as not having to pay the debt from now on. I know that many people are in a desperate situation, and I also know that they are clinging to any straw to escape their hopeless situation, but it cannot be that this straw will bring them into even greater trouble, making their debt even more difficult, even more priceless, and really impossible. There are also a number of options in implementation, such as asking for payment of instalments, and it is clear that an agreement can be concluded with the creditor which means either deferment of the debt or subsequent payment of the debt. In addition, the institution of the private bankruptcy, which the Parliament has passed, is available. So it would be up to all of us to tell those in trouble what opportunities they have to make things easier. Dear House, Although the purpose of this law was not primarily to amend the implementing law, but I believe that what has been included in this amendment will in any case help the legality of the implementation, the professionality of the executives, the integrity and control of it, thus extending the powers of the Supervisory Authority for Regulatory Activities. [[20.10]] And indeed, the Minister of Justice is responsible for preparing the implementing legislation, but the practical experience is provided by the Supervisory Authority for Controlled Activities, because he has been overseeing the activities of executives for a year and a half. Therefore, the initiatives of the Supervisory Authority for Regulatory Activities are justified by practice, experience, and, to my knowledge, this amendment comes from their experience, their practical experience and their improved proposals. Thus, the Minister of Justice alone will never be able to reveal anomalies arising in connection with the implementation, because, for example, the Minister of Justice can gather the experience of law enforcement in the courts or in the enforcement organisations themselves or in the Supervisory Authority of Regulated Activities. Since the Minister of Justice has not directly overseen the execution, the Ministry of Justice has not had this experience directly, and otherwise this is not a problem, because there is the appropriate authority, and there is also an authority independent of the government. Dear House, So my request is that, since the bill contains a number of forward-looking provisions, I ask that the law be adopted together with the amendment of the Legislative Committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-02-265	Thank you very much. The debate is closed and I thank Répássy Róbert for his answers. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. We now have XLII in 2022 on the elimination and management of the consequences of armed conflict and humanitarian disaster in Hungary in neighbouring countries. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Government referral T/3518. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, so I will give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2023-05-02-266	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 27 April 2023, the Legislative Committee discussed the XLII of 2022 on the elimination and management of the consequences of armed conflict and humanitarian disaster in Hungary in neighbouring countries. T/3518. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Parliament's resolution of 10/2014 on certain house rules. By 25 votes in favour, 11 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Russian-Ukrainian war in our country's neighbourhood has led to a humanitarian situation that has not been experienced since World War II and has also changed the economic situation in Europe. To tackle the humanitarian disaster and prevent the consequences of international economic change, our country must continue to ensure that effective and rapid national responses are developed. Therefore, in order to ensure that all the necessary means are available to help, support, accommodate people fleeing and to prevent any adverse economic effects that may arise in order to counter the consequences, and to ensure that the country leaves behind the harmful consequences of the war as soon as possible, the Government will extend or propose an additional 180 days of emergency. The amendment adopted by the Legislative Committee states that Parliament's mandate under Article 51 (3) of the Fundamental Law will allow the Government to maintain the emergency situation for a further 180 days until 25 November 2023, i.e. from 30 May 2023. This wording continues to be in line with the Government's initial proposal for XCIII of 2021 on the coordination of defence and security activities. Law 82/A It is intended to grant a mandate for a period of 180 days, as provided for in Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The amending proposal therefore completes the preamble to the bill and XLII of 2022 on the elimination and management of the consequences of armed conflict and humanitarian disaster in Hungary in neighbouring countries. Law No. 2 § 1 of the repealing provision also introduces the changed wording in order to maintain internal coherence. XLII 22 on the prevention and management of the consequences of the armed conflict in the neighbouring country and of the humanitarian disaster in Hungary. Law No. 1 It is also appropriate to amend Article 5 of the Act in order to maintain internal coherence. Dear House, Please support T/3518. Bill No. 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-02-267	Thank you very much, Congressman Vejkey, Mr President. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[Dr. Répássy Robert nodds.]] I give the floor to Secretary Robert Répássy.
u2023-05-02-268	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Article 51 of the Fundamental Law clearly states that the Government may declare an emergency in order to prevent the consequences of an armed conflict, war or humanitarian disaster in a neighbouring country, as well as a serious event threatening the security of life and property, in particular in the event of an elemental disaster or industrial disaster. The option under the Fundamental Law is also a responsibility: the government is responsible for ensuring the security of the country in the event of special situations and managing the consequences of special situations. Hungary's immediate neighbour, Ukraine, has been at war for more than a year. The humanitarian and economic effects of the war have become part of our daily lives. These are unquestioned facts, and it is not worth arguing about the existence of these facts. Dear House, Maintaining a special legal order is a special tool in the hands of the government to ensure the protection of the safety, livelihood and workplace of Hungarian people and families without delay. The government's objective is to take action to maintain an emergency. The special legal order ensures that the government is able to act effectively and quickly in any unexpected event in order to deal with and prevent emergency incidents. In my view, in the course of the debate on the bill, there was no argument that doubted the need to maintain a special legal order, and I therefore respectfully ask you to support this bill and, by a two-thirds majority, in accordance with Article 51 (4) of the Fundamental Law, to ensure that the duration of the emergency can be extended by the Government. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] In accordance with paragraph 2 of this Article, the possibility of extending the duration of the emergency situation by the government is to be ensured. Thank you very much. (Applause in the ranks of the governing parties.)
u2023-05-02-269	Thank you, Secretary of State Répássy. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I'd like to ask you if someone would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Therefore, the debate is closed and I would like to ask the rapporteur again, and he wishes to comment. [[Dr. Répássy Robert: No, thank you.]] He says he told me everything. Therefore, Honourable Parliament, the decisions will take place on tomorrow's sitting. [[20.20]] Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of the rules on declarations of assets and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow up in order to reach agreement with the European Commission. The government referral is T/3131. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Nagy, rapporteur of the committee.
u2023-05-02-270	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 28 April 2023, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/3131 amending the rules on declarations of assets in order to reach agreement with the European Commission. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 29 votes in favour, no votes against and 9 abstentions. Dear House, The bill before us sets out the detailed rules for access to property declarations in a searchable manner, as requested by the Commission. We are already discussing the many legislative proposals, which have been drawn up in cooperation with the Commission, in accordance with its requests. They may seem to have grown to an endless scale, as the Commission is making new demands on Hungary. The situation is also easy for laymen to see: Brussels is using the procedure as a political tool, stacking objections and bringing our country to new demands. The Legislative Committee's own amendment also contains substantive and technical amendments. Allow me to highlight some of these. On the basis of the proposed amendments, the National Judicial Council will have legal personality in the future and its tasks will be extended. On the one hand, all members of the National Judicial Council are assisted by a court secretary who, at the request of the members of the National Judicial Council, if they agree to the request, will be appointed to the National Judicial Council. In addition, the Secretariat of the National Judicial Council, consisting of administrative staff, will assist the work of the National Judicial Council. These judicial staff shall be employed by the National Judicial Council. In view of this, the proposal amends the 1997 LXVIII on the service of judicial staff. Act No. 1 of the Act No. 1 of the Act No. 1 of the Act No. 1 of the Act No. 1 of the Act No. 1 of the Act No. 1 of the Act No. 1 of the Act No. 1 of the Act No. 1 of the Act No. 1 of the Act No. 1 of the Act No. 1 of 1 of the Act No. 1 of the Act No. 1 of the Act No. 1 of 1 of the Act No. 1 of the Act No. 1 of 1 of the Act No. 1 of 1 of the Act No. 1 of 1 of 1 of the Act No. 1 of 1 of the Act No. 1 of 1 of the Act No. 1 of 1 of 1 of 1 of the Act No. 1 of 1 of the The proposal states that the President of the National Judicial Council exercises the powers of employer over the judicial staff of the National Judicial Council. The proposal complements the rules of the law on the service of judicial staff concerning the qualification requirements and states that the Minister for Justice issues the relevant regulation in respect of the qualification requirements of the National Judicial Council, while obtaining the opinion of the National Judicial Council. The proposal complements the law on the service relationship of judicial staff by laying down detailed rules on training and further training for judicial staff in service with the National Judicial Council in a decision of the National Judicial Council. Dear House, In order to reach a successful agreement with the European Commission, I urge you to vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-02-271	Thank you very much, Congressman Csaba Nagy. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Répássy Róbert, Secretary of State, if you would like to comment. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor.
u2023-05-02-272	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Members, Hungary has undertaken in its recovery and resilience plan to amend certain legal provisions relating to our judicial system in line with the recommendations made by the European Commission. T/3131. The purpose of the bill is to amend the laws necessary for the implementation of these commitments. In January this year, the government released the first version of the draft law for social consultation, and also held special consultations with key professional and civil society organisations. At the same time, the European Commission has been constantly consulted so that we can submit a proposal to the Parliament that has the prior approval of the European Commission. All the commitments made in the recovery and resilience plan, including the implementation of four so-called milestones in our judicial system, will also be decided by the European Commission. We have conducted intensive and constructive negotiations with the European Commission. The resulting draft of the standard text was presented to the Parliament last week. It may be worth reminding you that we've been in this situation before, we've been here before. After the attacks on the 2011 judicial reform, discussions between the government and the European Commission were successfully concluded in 2013. Ms Viviane Reding, then Commissioner, confirmed that Hungary has adequately addressed all the concerns raised by the European Commission, resulting in the justice system being in line with EU law. Since then, the administrative system of Hungarian justice has not changed fundamentally, and the European Commission recognises in the Justice Scoreboard year after year that our country is at the forefront of the EU Member States in terms of the effectiveness of justice. Dear House, The negotiations between the government and the European Commission last autumn resulted in four judicial milestones set out in the recovery and resilience plan. In order to implement them, it is necessary to adopt the draft law. In the first judicial milestone, Hungary undertook to strengthen the supervisory role of the National Judicial Council with regard to the exercise of the powers of the President of the National Court Office responsible for the central administration of the courts. A significant part of the provisions of the legislative package are intended to implement this commitment. On the one hand, the bill expands the powers of OBT and on the other hand creates the organisational and budgetary framework necessary for the increased tasks of OBT. The amendments state that OBT will continue to operate as a single-owner central government body, which will be led and represented by the President of the OBT. The President and Deputy Chairperson of the OBT shall be elected by the members of the OBT from among their number for three years. The bill ensures the budgetary autonomy of OBT by adding a separate title to the budget appropriations allocated to OBT within the budget chapter of the courts, which cannot be transferred. As regards the OBT title, the OBT itself shall perform the functions of the head of the body managing the Chapter. The National Assembly is the XXV of 2022 on Hungary's central budget for 2023. Act VI of 2023 amending Act No. The Act already provided for the establishment of the OBT title and the provision of additional resources to OBT for this year, which will take effect after the adoption of this draft law and its entry into force. The members of the OBT shall carry out their duties arising from the membership of the OBT in addition to their case-law. In order to ensure that the additional tasks arising from the broadened powers of the OBT can be carried out smoothly, the bill ensures that OBT members are adequately exempted from judicial work. According to the bill, OBT will be assisted by its own judicial staff, over whom the employer's authority is exercised by the President of OBT. OBT's judicial staff will be the court secretaries who support each OBT member in the performance of their duties and the judicial staff who carry out administrative tasks to ensure the operation of the OBT. The bill ensures that OBT can function properly during the transitional period until it is able to perform the secretarial and administrative tasks necessary for it to function as a central budgetary body on its own. During the proposed transitional period of nine months, the necessary support and infrastructure shall be provided to OBT by OBH. [[20.30]] The bill significantly broadens OBT's supervisory powers with regard to central administration of courts and other powers relating to the administration of courts. The bill introduces a new system in the OBH presidency procedure, in which OBT is given a strong role. The proposal for the President of the OBH shall continue to be made for the National Assembly by the President of the Republic. However, the President of the Republic makes his proposal by choosing from among those who, in the decision of the OBT, have found that they comply with the legal requirements of the President of the OBH. The same mandatory right of opinion applies to OBT candidates for the Deputy Chairperson of the OBH. The President of the OBH shall, in the exercise of his central administrative functions, establish binding rules for the courts in order to carry out his duties and shall make recommendations and decisions. The bill gives OBT the power to agree on these tasks. OBT is also given strong powers in the field of legislative preparation. On the one hand, it may propose legislation concerning courts and, on the other hand, give an opinion on the draft legislation concerning the judicial system and give a binding opinion on the detailed rules for the assessment of applications for employment and on the draft Justice Ministerial Decree on the scores to be given in the establishment of the ranking of applications. OBT's task is supported by the right to have access to all documents, information and data relating to the administration of courts in the future. The bill also ensures that it can appeal to enforce all the rights of OBT. OBT may appeal to the Constitutional Court or to the Court of Justice by bringing civil or administrative proceedings in order to enforce its rights. Dear Parliament, The second issue to which Hungary has committed is related to the operation of the Curia. The relevant milestone of the Hungarian recovery and resilience plan basically lays down requirements for further strengthening the powers of the OBT and the judicial bodies of the Curia, as well as the transparency of the distribution of cases. In line with the commitments, the bill also provides for the new procedure for the post of President and Deputy President of the OBH to be applied in the event of the office of President and Deputy President of the Curia. The bill ensures that OBT's right of agreement applies even if the President of the Curia exercises his powers of appointment and other human rights. Accordingly, the OBT has the right of agreement if the President of the Curia wishes to terminate the appointment of the judge without the consent of the judge, and if the President of the Curia wishes to declare the application for a judicial post and the court's management's application to fail in the case provided for by law. The OBT also has the right to bring proceedings against the Curia in respect of both a civil suit to ensure access to documents, information and data, and an administrative action for default and attack. The bill broadens the powers of the Curia's judicial council and colleges. It expands the staff who are consulted, and the bill states, in the case of the head of the Curia's college, its deputy head of the college, its secretary-general and its chairman, that the judges' council and the college's opinion on candidates are binding on the President of the Appointing Curia. The bill also gives them the right to agree on the secondment of judges to the Curia and the distribution of cases in the Curia. The bill enhances the transparency of the Curia's distribution of cases, setting out the specific aspects to be taken into account. For example, when registering cases received by electronic means, the case receives an automated number of cases without human intervention, the Council acting on the case shall be designated by means of a pre-defined objective procedure for the allocation of cases. It shall mention the cases in which a derogation from the division of cases may be made, but in the event of such a derogation it is necessary to ensure that the aspects of the division of cases are respected. The bill will remove the possibility for constitutional judges to apply for their appointment as judges in the future. In the future, therefore, a constitutional judge without a judicial appointment prior to the election of a member of the Constitutional Court should not, following the election of a member of the Constitutional Court, apply for the appointment of the President of the Republic as Judge. Dear House, Our commitment to a third judicial milestone makes it clear that there is no restriction that would prevent Hungarian judges from submitting a reference for a preliminary ruling to the Court of Justice of the European Union. Accordingly, the bill makes it clear, by amending the law on criminal proceedings, that no decision should be taken to review the legality of the decision to refer the application for a preliminary ruling to the Court of Justice of the European Union. The bill makes it clear with the new provisions that the right of Hungarian judges to submit a reference for a preliminary ruling to the Court of Justice of the European Union arising from EU Treaties is not restricted by internal legal instruments. Finally, in line with the fourth judicial milestone, the bill, by amending the Law on the Constitutional Court, leads to the possibility for public authorities to file a constitutional complaint with the Constitutional Court. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The adoption of the bill before the final vote is not only necessary for the implementation of the judicial milestones set out in Hungary's recovery and resilience plan. The implementation of the four milestone commitments is necessary in order to meet the so-called horizontal eligibility criteria for justice that block 97% of the cohesion funds allocated to Hungary between 2021-2027. The adoption of the bill will open the way for our country to have access to a significant part of the cohesion funds for Hungarian people in the near future. This is our clear national interest and should therefore be a minimum of national consensus. The Hungarian government is working undisturbed in order to give the Hungarian people the EU funds they need as soon as possible. To do so, I ask for the support of the Parliament by adopting the bill. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-02-273	Thank you very much for the speech by Mr Répássy. I would like to inform you that you will have two minutes for your further comments in the debate and for your closing words. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. The speeches will now take place in the time frame on the agenda, as shown on the display. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I would like to ask if someone would like to make use of the opportunity to speak in the given time frame. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application, so the debate is closed. [[Balázs Barkóczi: Mr President, I am sorry, there was a preliminary speaker.]] The debate is closed. It wasn't on the screen. I'm sorry. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he would like to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] It says no. He told me everything. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, A joint debate on the proposal for a political declaration on the rejection of migration and on the promotion of the issuing countries on the ground. Nacsa Lőrinc, Aradszki András, János Harghitai, Hajnalka Juhász, János Latorcai, Zsolt Semjén, Miklós Seszták, István Simicskó, Imre Vejkey, László Földi, Péter Harrach, Béla Mihálffy, Attila Móring, Bence Rétvári, Miklós Soltész, László Szászfalvi, János Süli, István Hollik and Tibor Navracsics, representatives of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party T/3825. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. [[20.40]] I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. The debate will be the first to give the floor to Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, the author of the proposal for a political declaration.
u2023-05-02-274	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In 2000, the original Cotonou Agreement was signed in Cotonou, the largest city in Benin, by the then 15 Member States of the European Union, with 79 African, Caribbean and Pacific countries. This international treaty entered into force in 2003 and provided development, trade and legal funds between the EU and 79 countries for some two decades. The old agreement in Cotonou in 2000 would be replaced by the draft of the new post-Cotonou agreement, which Hungary could not support earlier. The draft post-Cotonou agreement included support for migration and gender perspective as stealth legislation. In response, KDNP submitted a political statement to the Parliament in 2021 to reject the planned agreement until it contains objectives contrary to our Fundamental Law and the clear and clear will of the Hungarian people. Then the Parliament accepted this political statement by a large majority. On several occasions, Hungarian people have expressed their views on immigration and gender perception, as well as on child protection. Clearly, we Hungarians do not want Hungary to be an immigrant country. The Hungarians also said no to install immigrants on the basis of quotas with help from Brussels. The planned agreement was not acceptable at the time because it stressed not the dangers caused by migration but only its positive effects. Last year, in 2022, the Hungarian authorities registered 250 thousand illegal attempts at border crossings; only last year, as many migrants tried to enter Hungary illegally as in the six previous years. We have therefore not been able to support, even at the principle level, an international convention that sees migration as a positive, desirable goal. At the same time, in the course of the negotiations over the last few weeks, the government has received the required guarantees, so that any decision on migration and labour market issues remains in national competence, and the protection of children against the LGBTQ propaganda that has been imposed on them will not be undermined. On the basis of the agreement reached now, they will complement the Council decision of the European Union, making it clear that the post-Cotonou agreement has no impact on the national competences of migration and sexual education, i.e. all decisions in these areas, regardless of signature, remain national. This is a clear success for the Hungarian position, we did not have to give up our principles reflecting the clear will of the Hungarian people, but we have fought out the necessary guarantees, so we already support the post-Cotonou agreement that is useful and beneficial to Hungary and the partner countries in all other areas. This is evidence that it is worth standing up and fighting for national interests, and not pursuing the foreign policy that the Left has conducted, where the. where it should be signed. At that time, the Left was not able to mock us as to why to ask for a guarantee against a draft international treaty, since that is the question they usually have: where to sign? If it had been on the left, this agreement would have been signed automatically, without reading, so that we could combat the position of Hungarian interest. It was therefore worth standing up to Hungary not to contribute to the ratification of the agreement without the necessary guarantees. I would also like to thank the KKM, the Hungarian negotiating delegation and the Hungarian diplomats for their persistent work on this issue. I think that the promotion and development of 79 countries is in our economic interest, the strengthening of our economic relations with these 79 countries is an absolute Hungarian national interest. We believe that the development in these countries, local assistance, is the solution to migration, not the management or support of migration, but the support on the ground. It is also included in the proposal for a decision that these developments can only be implemented by involving state, church and civil society organisations there, and by focusing particularly on the issues of job creation, education and security, since these issues are, above all, a priority in African countries as well. To sum up: In Hungary, therefore, we consider it our sovereign right to decide who we allow into our own country and who we do not, but at the same time look for a relationship based on mutual respect with all countries with which we can conclude meaningful economic agreements, where mutual development is in the interests of both parties. I think that the EU Council decision would provide us with reassuring and acceptable guarantees, which is why we have now submitted a signature, reflecting, of course, our principles, this political statement. I would ask the Parliament to support this political statement in the light of the events of the last few weeks. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-05-02-275	Thank you very much for your speech to the rapporteur, Lőrinc Nacsa. I would like to inform you that you will have a total of 15 minutes to speak and answer back during the debate. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if someone on the government's side wants to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2023-05-02-276	Mr President, Dear Parliament, In accordance with Parliament's decision in 2021, the Hungarian Government has not agreed to the signing of the post-Cotonou agreement until we have received the necessary guarantees regarding the critical migration aspects of the agreement. This is particularly important given the fact that Hungary is not participating in the Global Migration Pact. Similarly, we shared concerns with Parliament about certain references to sexual reproductive and health rights and sexual education in the text. During the last two years, the Hungarian Government has voiced these parliamentary concerns at all professional and political forums in Brussels, making its position clear. At the same time, in view of the economic, social and political importance of the agreement, the Government of Hungary has entered into dialogue on the subject with the Presidency-in-Office of the Council of the European Union, the European Commission. In addition, in recent weeks, intensive negotiations have been held with the African, Caribbean and Pacific countries in order to ensure that the Hungarian government and Parliament are properly resolved and that the agreement can be signed. As stated in the political statement presented, we believe that the difficulties of individual states need to be helped locally rather than managing migration. We also protect families, parent-child relationships, and parents' right to choose their child's education, both in our country and in other countries where they follow this principle. In recent months, therefore, during negotiations with the European Commission, the Hungarian Government has received the required guarantees regarding the agreement between the European Union and the 79 African, Caribbean and Pacific Group. Accordingly, the final text adopted by the Council of the European Union refers to the mixed legal nature of the agreement, which thus gives Member States greater power to implement it. The agreement will also include a so-called negative list of issues where national competence is not violated. For example, legislation on the labour market and social inclusion. Respect for national competences on migration has been recorded in the text. Finally, in relation to migration and sexual rights, the Hungarian Government has set out its position on the Christian values of the EU Declaration on the Council Decision and that the post-Cotonou agreement does not affect the national competences of migration and sexual education, i.e. all decisions in these areas remain in national competence regardless of their signature. In total, on the basis of the agreement reached now, the Hungarian Government considers the signing of the agreement to be eligible, and in line with this, we support the adoption by Parliament of this political statement, the present proposal. Thank you for the floor, thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-05-02-277	I thank the Government representative, Secretary of State Azbei Tristan, for his speech. I would like to inform you that you have 6 minutes and 15 seconds left for your further speech during the debate. Dear Parliament, The Legislative Committee did not present a lecturer. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. [[Dr. Imre Vejkey: Excuse me, Mr. President.]] I would like to draw your attention to the factions 10-10... I'm sorry. Your name wasn't in the script here, Congressman, Mr. President. Then I'll give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, for a maximum of three minutes. [[20.50]]
u2023-05-02-278	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee discussed on 2 May 2023 the P/3825 on the rejection of migration and on the local support of the issuing countries. Proposal for a policy statement No 1. The summary report from the committee of the house rule 46. He accepted by 30 votes in favour, not without a vote, with 4 abstentions. Ladies and Gentlemen, The political declaration aims to ensure that Hungary participates in the amended form of the post-Cotonou agreement on the grounds of previous concerns. Hungary is committed to its migration policy, according to which it should not be facilitated but stopped, and the problems need to be dealt with locally, and the countries that issued it should be helped locally. To this end, we welcome all international initiatives that promote this. Similarly, we do not allow the primacy of the parent's right to raise children to be questioned, we protect children from propaganda to weaken their identity, and we reject all ideology in this direction. In the past, we found these issues problematic in the case of the post-Cotonou agreement, as they were also problematic, but Hungary has received the necessary guarantees, so the barriers to accession have now been removed, and the text of the political declaration seeks to confirm this. The Legislative Committee did not adopt an amendment, nor did it have its own intention to amend it. Dear House, Please support P/3825. Proposal for a political declaration. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-02-279	Thank you very much, Congressman Vejkey, Mr President. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 10-10 minutes, and the independent Members have two minutes in total. In the meantime, two-minute comments should be included in the duration. I give the floor to Congressman László Varju, DK.
u2023-05-02-280	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, I promise you that I will not take advantage of this time frame, even if, in itself, the situation that the government, its representative, on behalf of the committee, has long proven his position here... has explained here how important it is to accept this political declaration. I resist this, because with this long demonstration, all you can prove is that all that has happened in advance... is that this explanation is being made, that they will accept, in essence, the agreement in which they have reached agreement here in the international space without change. But you have taken advantage of this moment to accept, by the way, a hate-promoting political statement. The fact that you have been given any guarantees has not been able to justify this, but I will continue to say what we said earlier at the committee meeting that the Democratic Coalition agrees with the content of the so-called post-Cotonou agreement between the European Union and developing countries, but our representatives will abstain from voting in the political statement on this issue by Fidesz, because of its disincentive and hateful content. (The chair was appointed by Dr. Lajos Oláh, Vice-President of the Parliament.) As much as we support the EU agreement in question, we will not be partners in using Fidesz as a means of teasing social groups. So, with respect, I suggest that you take this into account and evaluate it accordingly. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. [[Applause for the representatives of DK.]]
u2023-05-02-281	Thank you very much, Congressman. I welcome my fellow Members, representatives of the government and colleagues. I give the floor to Peter Balassa of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-05-02-282	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Today the proposal was proposed as an emergency proposal from the European Affairs Committee. In the spirit of mutual respect, you sent it to us by e-mail a minute before, and then we learned that this was being taken into consideration, and today we will discuss it and tomorrow we will vote on it. We are also discussing an agenda at the committee meeting that affects our entire lives. Our whole lives will be accompanied by migration, and I will not say anything new by the fact that our children and grandchildren will feel it the same way. The world has changed, migration is with us, and this problem continues to exist. If migration itself and the facts should be clarified, then what does the word migration itself mean? It means the exodus of people within or through national borders. Who should be considered as a migrant? Let's say that the Hungarian citizen who moves from Eastern Hungary to Western Hungary in the hope of a better wage, or those Hungarian compatriots who go to work abroad, whether in Austria, Germany or London, in the hope of a higher salary? Or is it also a migrant who, say, comes from the Russian-Ukrainian war to Hungary, or, say, the Syrian, Turkish or the migrants who arrive in Hungary? The flood of migrants can reach Europe, and I also said this at this morning's committee meeting, what was said yesterday in the United Nations Committee on Asylum, Raouf Mazou, High Commissioner for Refugees, said that more than 800 thousand people are likely to start in Sudan, which Hungarians have to deal with, and Europe has to deal with, but everyone has to deal with these problems. If you look at the processes in the world, there is a war going on in our neighborhood, migration affects our daily policy and our daily lives. Preventing illegal migration would be primarily the main task and support the issuing countries locally. According to the Jobbik-Conservatives, the real solution would be to eliminate illegal migration, as I have already said. We know that significant results in this area can only be achieved with global cooperation, with the efforts of the United Nations outside the European Union and with a change of perspective in the world economy. We agree that the European Union, including Hungary, should invest financially in the development of the economies of certain African and Asian countries in order to reduce the causes of migration, but at the same time we call attention to the fact that EU funds can flow through public corruption channels, which, unfortunately, have already been experienced. It should also be noted that a financial contribution from the European Union is also necessary in order for those forced to flee to live close to their own home country under appropriate conditions. This is the case with Syrian refugees in Turkey. However, the reality is that the EU needs to prepare for increasing migratory pressure, the draft EU migration regulation does not want to prevent illegal migration, but, by accepting it, it wants to treat it not as illegal, but rather as irregular, not as illegal, not as regular. Support for countries overwhelmed by migrants is justified, and this solidarity may take the form of so-called return sponsorship, which is in fact the phase prior to compulsory migration under quota. According to the first sentence of the political declaration, Hungary's position on migration is clear and unchanged from the outset: we do not want to become an immigrant country. Indeed, the Orbán government clearly manifests itself as anti-migration at home and on the international stage, but unfortunately not consistently. With the introduction of settlement bonds, it allowed rich migrants to appear, while also providing a huge business for Fidesz-near entrepreneurs selling bonds. The only thing on the cake is that there were problems buying back the bond. In addition, large foreign factories operating in Hungary satisfy their demand for cheap and unskilled labour with third country labour, if you like, with legal migration. [[21.00]] In recent years Hungary has also been criticised for the process of migrants, so we consider it an important aspect to meet humanitarian requirements and to comply with asylum conventions. The statement was supplemented by the following points: the National Assembly draws the Government's attention to the full compliance with the asylum conventions adopted by Hungary. Despite previous criticisms, the Jobbik-Conservatives support the adoption of the political declaration. Thank you for listening.
u2023-05-02-283	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Michael Balla of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-05-02-284	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, T/3825. We are discussing a proposal now. In the previous speech and in the previous speeches, I think that we should make some sort of clarification. This is a debate in Europe, on the one hand, and a debate on the use of words. So it doesn't matter if we're talking about refugees or illegal immigration, illegal migration. This proposal, on the issue of the post-Cotonou agreement, focuses primarily on the question that we have already expressed our concerns in the form of a political statement in December 2021. At the time, the biggest problem with the text of the agreement was that it made migration look positive, and we know that the biggest problem in recent years, especially from 2015 onwards, was that illegal migration had to be stopped, and Hungary was determined to do so. Since the war has been in our neighbourhood for over a year, I believe that it is absolutely natural for Hungary to help and support refugees from there, people fleeing from war. So there is a huge difference between the two things: on the one hand, illegal migration and, on the other, the assistance and support of refugees. I believe that Hungary complies with the asylum rules and conventions and helps those in need. But we know that the Hungarian government's position on migration has always been clear, that is to say, migration must be stopped, and the problems must be dealt with locally, and we must help the issuing countries locally. We have repeatedly said that the solution to problems, the removal of the motivation for migration, should be primarily about helping where there is trouble. And it is no coincidence that Hungary and the Hungarian government have, in many cases, done so, even through the Hungary Helps programme, that they have helped communities in those countries, in the countries of migration issuing countries, with the intention to prevent this migration, illegal migration, from moving towards Europe, and not to move towards Hungary via land. We know well that, in recent times, migratory pressure and illegal migratory pressure have increased at our southern borders, and I think that the international community is increasingly aware of the problem of these migratory flows in Europe or in the western hemisphere of Europe, we are increasingly hearing statements and opinions from more and more countries concerned about the need to tighten up the fight against illegal migration. I think precisely that, in order to prevent further migration flows, our group welcomes any international initiative aimed at increasing the support of the countries concerned, thereby promoting stability, so that illegal migration starts as little as possible towards our direction, primarily towards European destinations, or towards Hungary, whether from Serbia, Turkey or via the land route to Hungary. It seems that the various forums and institutions of the international community have also come to realize or at least realize the difficulties of these migration challenges, and the guarantees we have received in connection with our accession to the post-Cotonou agreement are an example. This will also eliminate our concerns and obstacles to accession, which this political declaration basically states. So I say, fellow Members, and I ask you, in view of what has been said, that you support this political statement, and on behalf of the Fidesz Group, I ask that you support this proposal. I declare, on behalf of the Fidesz fraction, that we continue to support the Government's position on illegal migration, and I trust that, along this agreement, Europe will be able to give much more serious and much better answers, together with it, to the challenges of illegal migration, illegal immigration, for all of us. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2023-05-02-285	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Lóránt Keresztes, from the LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-05-02-286	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Indeed, as has already been said in the debate, we are faced with a global challenge here, and no one can think that this issue, this challenge, will be weakened, but rather, unfortunately, we need to be prepared to escalate this problem, and the generations behind us are increasingly facing it to a much greater extent. In the last many years, the LMP fraction has been very consistent with the resolution that immigration policy should be kept in national competence. We have also always said that the EU's external borders must be protected and that illegal immigration, illegal migration, must be stopped, and that a policy must indeed be pursued that will enable everyone to thrive in their homeland. I myself have worked in the Committee of the Regions for three years, and I myself have experienced a distorted policy of the European Union's political elite in relation to migration, and unfortunately it has been said many times that this global crisis is being described as a positive phenomenon, and sometimes in a totally hypocritical way, they see an economic opportunity to highlight it. I remember, during one of the sessions, a terrible tragedy occurred when a ship filled with refugees fell over and a lot of people lost their lives. At the time, the panel had drawn up a resolution on this and started with the fact that such a tragedy should not happen, and then three points later the panel discussed the enormous potential of migration, because in this way cheap labour could flow to the territory of the European Union. I also spoke and drew attention to what a sham policy it is that describes as a positive process the tragedy of certain regions, of certain countries, when a society is, by the way, typically the youngest, most active parts of it are forced to leave the territory, and in this way there will no longer be a chance for the country to build a state there and run the country. I, too, believe that this issue can be dealt with as a matter of substance if this approach changes, and we really see it as a crisis phenomenon, and we really want everyone, and we really need to work together here, so that we can get help to the areas where this is needed. And here, indeed, my better fellow Member has already spoken about this, and there is also a need for a change of perspective which, by the way, stops the elite of Western Europe, so to say, the economic colonial policy of the center regions, which was built on the fact that the natural resources of these regions were simply robbed and, in line with their economic interests, or even in accordance with their other political interests, different dictators were raised or removed from their positions. In fact, with such colonialism, they have put states that lose their population significantly in such a vulnerable situation. [[21.10]] It should also be pointed out that European policy is still not clear and openly talking about the root causes, the main of which is climate change and access to drinking water. Let me draw attention to the contradictions which, on the other hand, place a very strong burden on the work of Fidesz-KDNP and the government's policy. On the one hand, I have personally experienced this, and I have often been in a situation where, in Brussels, I myself continued to change political blades with the EU Commissioner for Migration, while, by the way, the representatives of Fidesz, as a member of the European People's Party, were still really silent and ignored, or, where appropriate, voted in favour of the mandatory quota in various procedures. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: And the greens!]] I say, yes, it is possible to criticize certain green parties, I do that, and obviously we are consistent in this, as Fidesz was not always consistent in the assessment of the People's Party's policy. But I think it is a very, very serious contradiction that, while the government is talking about protecting Europe, which is, of course, an important aspect, while being friends with dictators who are not friends of Christian Europe, such as President Erdoğan. We know very well that President Erdoğan is using migration as a political weapon, and he specifically called on minorities in Europe not to be integrated. And that is exactly how he wants to find a kind of political tool in this, and we can certainly say that he is not a friend of Christian Europe, President Erdoğan. Similarly, I would like to draw attention to another contradiction. You are saying that Hungary cannot be an immigrant country, while they are embedding an amazing amount of the process of trying to call economic immigrants. You are now implementing an industrial strategy, for which your Minister for Economic Affairs calls for the involvement of 500 000 new workers, and you have also made it clear at the appropriate board meetings, Minister, that here, we can say, to a significant extent, because he is talking almost exclusively about migrant workers, migrant workers coming from remote regions. After all, so many new workers are needed to implement your industrial strategy, your so-called battery power. So this, too, is in contradiction with what you, by the way, often say and often represent. Indeed, in the context of the Hungarian government's work, there must be emphasis here on the fact that it is clearly the biggest challenge in terms of climate change and access to drinking water, which I have already mentioned, and there is a lot of action to be taken here in international politics that the Hungarian Government does not support, but rather makes it difficult for the international cooperation that seeks to reduce the effects of these problems. The UN has published many shocking reports. In one of these shocking reports, it draws attention to the fact that one billion people live in countries that are at risk of various climatic phenomena, and by 2050-2060, the UN is talking about climate refugees of this magnitude, predicting so many climate refugees. So it is quite clear that if the world cannot come to its senses, so to speak, the rich West, which benefits essentially from these globalisation processes, is that there must be a halt to this insane pursuit of profits and this kind of industrial policy, which the Hungarian government is also the depositary of, then it is not possible to stop such drastic and negative effects of climate change, and we will indeed increasingly have to face the fact that in many areas people are losing the potential of agricultural production, or are not getting more and more drinking water, and in this way they will simply start, and in such masses it will not be possible to stop this process. So I think that everyone, the European political elite, must also wake up, but also the Hungarian government must not approach this issue in such a short-sighted way. In addition, we agree with this agreement, and similarly, as we have heard my fellow Member, I can say that the LMP faction will vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2023-05-02-287	Thank you, Congressman. I don't see any other comment. Dear Parliament, The consolidated debate is closed. I ask the rapporteur, and he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, please.
u2023-05-02-288	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for your comments, ladies and gentlemen, and I would like to respond a few times. Congressman Balassa spoke about refugees, migration, people coming from Ukraine. International law makes it quite clear who we call refugees and who we call illegal immigrants, migrants or economic immigrants. If anyone knows the map, it's hard to say that, say, from Black Africa or Pakistan, we'd be the first safe country on the route. However, in Ukraine, yes, Hungary is the first safe country, so we not only fulfilled our international obligations there, but we have adopted more than a million people from Ukraine within the framework of Hungary's largest humanitarian action, because that is what morale wants, and our international obligations, of course. We're talking about something quite different at the southern border, and it's not worth washing the two together, because we're helping and treating a terrible, terrible wave of refugees and humanitarian crises, and I think, above our powers, and that's okay, at the same time, with a lot of 10-20-30 countries coming from over there... You know, Congressman, in 2015, in the middle of the biggest migrant crisis, they arrived at the southern border from over 60 countries when we built the fence. Obviously Hungary was not the first safe country for them, as the international conventions require. But thank you very much for the support of Jobbik for the political declaration. Congressman Varju failed to tell us which hateful sentence is in the text. I have read through it once again, there is no hateful sentence in the text, obviously this is just an excuse for the Democratic Coalition not to support such an important issue, and thus, for example, it is trying to make such a framework of international cooperation impossible. So if DK were to decide on the success of this case, then, of course, we wouldn't be anywhere again. I would also like to answer the question raised by Mr Crusade, but I myself am familiar with various European organisations. Well, the green fraction is usually not one of the factions against migration, honourable Member, and I have now made myself mildly clear, and we are hearing more and more wild ideas from those who call themselves green politicians. But what we do is worth highlighting. For example, the Secretary of State has repeatedly reported on the activities of Hungary Helps before the Committee on Foreign Affairs. There are many projects, for example, in Africa or Ecuador that serve sustainability. We support a sustainability center, water treatment facilities, water supply for a village, and so on. There are exactly subsidies here, and there are projects involving local organisations and most often churches that serve exactly the same purpose that you have talked about, so that people in this area can get adequate drinking water, so that they can live from agricultural work, and they do not have to leave because the place where they were produced has become completely deserted, and now they cannot make a living from agriculture. It is worth browsing the activities of Hungary Helps, Congressman, because it supports exactly such projects. Therefore, I hope that next time, for example, you will be able to vote, Mr President, on the budget to be negotiated this summer, because there will also be resources for such projects, which we consider to be important. To avoid contact with a NATO ally, I cannot accept this from the point of view of Hungarian interest and Hungarian foreign policy. Turkey is a NATO Member State and is therefore a NATO Alliance and a great power in our region and region. I think it is right to maintain relations with a NATO ally and a great power in our region, because it is in the interest of Hungary and we are happy to maintain relations with anyone, if this is done on the basis of mutual respect, not on the basis of some kind of education, not on the ground of intervention in another's internal affairs, but on the basis of mutual respect. I think it's right that we have such efforts. Turkey has done a great deal to stop migration, honourable Member, to stop migration to Europe. We believe that the best solution, and we are following this path, is that those people from the issuing countries are not going to start, but that we are going to bring help to those who are creating jobs, improving the quality of life, helping people to live in the community. To the European Union, for example, in the Africa Strategy, we have also stated that there should not be a lecture from Brussels to tell them what they need to do in some countries in Africa, but to ask them what we might be able to help them and, on the basis of mutual respect, again, with the involvement of local churches, civil society organisations and, of course, public bodies, they can help projects from the European Union's development resources that help education, job creation and security, because then these people will be able to stay in place. They don't even start, that's the best, because those countries are also able to make progress, because their youth, the ready-to-do workforce, stays in these countries and can flourish their own nation. [[21.20]] We believe in this, so it is important that the European Union has a good relationship with these 79 countries, and we can also benefit from it on an economic basis, because we also have many economic relations with the 79 countries listed here, which are also provided for in the Convention. We want to broaden these economic relations, broaden them with countries that might increase our trade. In most of these countries, the Hungarian Stipendium Hungaricum scholarship is offered, so young people can come from these countries to study for Hungarian universities there, who later will be the Hungarian economy or the Hungarian culture or any other advocates in these countries. In many countries, we support projects such as Hungary Helps or international development projects that help to stay in place and help to thrive there. We would like this direction to continue, and in the European Union, no more and more quota proposals and more attempts to legalise migration would overwhelm the Brussels tables, but rather instead of helping locally, managing migration, stopping migration and bringing people here, there would be a policy of locally helping people. That is why we have done so far, and that is why we will continue to do so in the future. I ask you to support the political statement submitted. Thank you very much to the Fidesz Group and to everyone who has said that you will support it. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-02-289	Thank you for your contributions. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Wednesday's meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Lóránt Keresztes, from the group of LMP, applied for a post-meeting speech entitled "The Protection of Our Built Heritage." Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-05-02-290	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We must now talk about a start to a proposal that is, we can say, unprecedented and contrary to Hungarian national interests in all respects. We have heard a government plan, which is being prepared, and we can say that it has been leaked through the press, which is that it would provide 12 state-owned, wonderful monuments and otherwise a great deal of public funds to private actors. So, on the proposal of János Lazarus, the government is preparing to privateise these wonderful buildings, the buildings that are part of our built heritage, to outsource and privatize them without specifically asking for anything in return. This proposal has been leaked. It's been circulating in the press for weeks. I have asked the question on several occasions and have confirmed this through competent government members, and through various press organs, János Lázár himself acknowledged that such a draft is indeed under preparation. It is absolutely clear to us that these wonderful buildings are part of our national wealth, they are part of our cultural, built heritage, and we believe that national wealth must not be strayed, it must not be distributed to the political and economic moonyard, but must be protected, protected and increased. The proposal that is being prepared in this way, although it has not yet been submitted to Parliament, would be nothing more than stealing the nation. I think that we all have to fight together, with all our might, so that this outrageous proposal can never be implemented. It is quite clear, by the way, that this proposal is not only unacceptable to opposition politicians, let us say. I have spoken to many professionals, many professionals working in the field of historic protection or the care of monuments, and they have received this initiative with genuine shock, and all those people who respect and love these monuments, who, by the way, spend a lot of time visiting these wonderful buildings and, by the way, bringing the news to our national pride. By the way, pro-government politicians have also raised their voice against the proposed proposal. L. Simon László, Director General of the Hungarian National Museum, former State Secretary of the Orbán Government, also said in his writing that we insist that our wonderful buildings, which are part of the national property, remain in the ownership and management of the community. We may not agree on much, but we can certainly agree on this with L. Simon László's opinion. The leaked bill or the leaked bill would privatise such wonderful monuments as the Sándor-Meternich castle in Bajna, the Festetics castle in Dég, the Károlyi castle in Füzérradvány, Komlódtótfalu in the case of the Becsky-Kossuth mansion, Nádasladány in the case of the former Sárladány, the wonderful Nádasdy castle in the case of the former Sárladány, the Esterházy castle in Szólány-Majkpuszta in the case of the Esterházy castle in Sümeg, the wonderful Bishop's Palace in the case of Szag, the Wenckheim castle in the case of Szabadszer, one of the country's most beautiful castle, the Esterházy Castle in Tata, the Andrássy castle in Tisadob, or the town of Tuzséri Lónyásy castle in the case of the Szaszsényai. There are some examples of what cost money, how much taxpayer money it cost to renovate these buildings. Forint 1.8 billion forints EU and 1.5 billion forints were spent on the Festetics castle in Dég. From these sources, the castle built by the plans of Mihály Pollack was beautifully renovated, which is also amazing, located in the largest English park in the country. The draft would also provide these parks, forests, outbuildings and stables to private actors for free. This is a truly amazing and totally unacceptable idea. The last time I spoke on this matter and asked one of the State Secretarys, they spoke about the government's task of trying to provide additional resources for the maintenance of these buildings. Well, that's an important task. The renovation and renovation of these castles was quite right. These 12 castles are in a wonderful state, and we really need to find the funds from the budget so that these castles can preserve their public functions, these castles are open to all people who want to admire them from the outside or from the inside, but there can never be any reason for these castles to be passed away, these castles are placed in the hands of strangers. Therefore, I can say once again that this is unacceptable, and I very much hope that either local governments or other pro-government actors will speak. For my part, I can promise that we will fight with all our strength, in cooperation with the Hungarian people, in order to preserve these wonderful buildings in the hands of the Hungarian nation. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President.
u2023-05-02-291	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to László Varju, vice-president of the DK faction: What is happening in Újpesten? It's an address. I care, too. I'm looking forward to your comment.
u2023-05-02-292	Thank you, Mr President, for your interest, and I am trying to satisfy you to find out what is happening in Newpesten. That is why I am taking the opportunity to report on how Újpest's local government, in cooperation with civil society communities and families, will find an opportunity to improve the quality of life in people's environment, even in bad economic conditions. There is almost no Újpest, but we could say Budapest, who does not know one of the oldest animal protection organizations in Hungary, the Rex Dog Home Foundation and the Rex Animal Island operated by it. Many of us have a memory of feeding a goat here when our children have pets, petting rabbits, or getting to know the animals, dogs, and cats that live here, who are saved and waiting to be saved; the idea that we can and should help the animals that are in trouble. Now a new period in the history of the foundation begins, with the establishment of a unique national animal and educational centre on an international scale, which was agreed with the stakeholders by Dr Norbert Trippon, Deputy Mayor, and with the unanimous decision of the body of representatives, the Municipality of Újpest supports the establishment of this educational centre with HUF 60 million. This is another step, as the municipality of our district is committed to protecting animals. In addition to animal rescue, for example, they can come to the office with four-legged pets, and they also have a refreshment station. But let me go back to the foundation. The House of Responsible Animals will be a national training centre where future generations will be able to learn interactively about the needs of animals and the basis for responsible animal farming. In addition, there will be a dog museum, which will be a unique collection of dog-keeping knowledge. In fact, if people come from the countryside or from abroad, they can even stay in part of the building. The Rex Animal Island Education Centre mission is to promote a change of approach to the development of responsible livestock culture. [[21.30]] The interactive exhibition draws a comprehensive picture of dogs, through their anatomical and physiological characteristics, until the presentation of domestic and international dog breeds and dog occupations. However, the knowledge offered by the House of Responsible Animals is not limited to dogs. I am particularly pleased that the House of Responsible Animals is supported by civilians and businesses, as they have already done. There are decades of cooperation between the Rex Dog Home Foundation and the municipality, and they asked for the help of the municipality to complete the investment already started. The municipality of Újpest supports the implementation of the House of Responsible Animals with HUF 60 million. I believe that it is extremely important to support such a unique initiative, as it will give our children the opportunity to learn how to deal with the animals around them. Újpest is a proud city, we are proud of it and those who are as dedicated to a goal as the city leaders of Újpest in cooperation with the Rex Dog Home Foundation. The history of the foundation goes back a long time, until the end of the eighties, when one of the founders had the idea that it would also be necessary to create a demanding, high-quality animal and nature conservation facility in Hungary with the help of animal-loving people. Long planning started with the help of Dr. György Dörner, founder of the foundation, which was named Rex Dog Home Foundation after the first dog saved. In the 31 years since then, generations have grown up and loved not only the foundation, but also the Animal Island, which was opened in 2004, where regular groups of kindergarten and schoolchildren, families, where there are continuous events, educations to show and teach all age groups how important it is to love, respect and listen to the animals living with us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-05-02-293	Thank you, Deputy Group Leader. Balázs Barkóczi, from the DK Group, applied for a post-meeting speech:. Owing to inflation in Orbán, it is becoming more and more difficult to make a living in the 15th century. in the district as well as with its title. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-05-02-294	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The inflation rate in Orbán for all citizens of Hungary, including in my constituency, is the 15th anniversary of the 15th century. both in the district and in Újpesten. This inflation has been the most devastating crisis in Hungary for many decades. Food price increases, petrol price increases, seven-time increases eat up salaries, pensions, and destroy businesses. And even though the government propaganda stuffed with public money in 0-24 is different, the fact is that there is no such thing as war inflation, because today in Hungary there is three times as much price growth as in Europe. As long as the European inflation average is 8 per cent, Hungarian inflation is now 26 per cent. This means that Hungarian inflation has been peaking on the continent since last November. We do not need to have an economist's degree in order to draw a simple conclusion from these facts: we are living badly only because of Viktor Orbán and there is only inflation in Orbán. But what does all this mean for the inhabitants of my constituency, Rákospalota, Pestújhely, Újpalota and Újpest? Just as people around the country are desperately asking each other every day: how much longer? How much more do milk, butter, meat products, bread and eggs go on? After all, if we look at the 45 percent increase in food prices in one year, then we can say that the Hungarians have not been hit by such inflation since the Rákosi era in seventy years. Meanwhile, according to KSH, real wages fell by 20 percent, while 20 types of food most frequently bought by pensioners increased by 52.2 percent, even in excess of average food inflation. This means that inflation in Orbán eats up salaries, eats pensions, and while the government points to Brussels and the war, more and more people living here are faced with an unsolvable problem of buying big groceries, and a Sunday lunch with soup, main course and dessert is a luxury for more and more district families. Orbán destroyed the forint, let the public debt run away, and with the theft of 12 years, he lost our country's EU funds. Together, they cause inflation in Orbán, which is paid in stores at XV. district and Újpest families and pensioners. But let's keep going. While the world market price for gas has dropped to a one-year low, the government has quadrupled the price of the 15th century. he said no to European overhead cuts. In other words, Viktor Orbán finances Russia's aggression against Ukraine in Putin by charging it to the Hungarian people, the citizens of Crab Palota, Pestújhely, New Palota and Újpest. While Fidesz is talking about sanctions for inflation, let us be clear: there is only one Hungarian person on the planet Earth who voted in favour of EU sanctions, and he is called Viktor Orbán. After all, sanctions are decided by the European Council, which brings together prime ministers. But the current livelihood crisis was not caused by war or sanctions, but by the Orbán system. There is no sanction for Russian gas, there is no sanction for Russian oil in Hungary, nor has the European Union set a double the price of trappist cheese as a consequence of the past 12 years of Orbán, the price of which is again only paid by XV. It is paid by district and Újpest citizens. But let's just take a simple refueling. Because of the Orbán government's fuel price increase, it now costs two and a half times as much as it did during the Gyurcsány government. This is another brutal government restriction, after which Orbán again defies responsibility with lies, because there really is no EU oil sanction for Hungary, as I said, only an Orbán lie, which is now being paid by the citizens of Crab Palota, Pestújhely, New Palota and Újpest at each gas station. The Shadow Government is therefore subject to Article XV. presented a 13-point anti-inflationary package for the benefit of district and Újpest people. According to the shadow government, the VAT rate for basic foods should be reduced to zero by the end of the year and a VAT rate of 5% on gas and electricity should be introduced. The shadow government would reduce the 27 per cent VAT on basic fuels to 5 per cent, while the excise duty on petrol would be 70 forints per litre and 20 forints per litre for gas oil, which would reduce the price of fuels to less than 500 forints per litre instead of the current 650. The shadow government proposes that the EU minimum wage be introduced in Hungary as well, and as long as such brutal inflation in Orbán is affected by Article XV. district and Újpest citizens should have an inflation-following pension correction, not annually, but quarterly, and a 5% supplementary pension increase until January. It's the only way to stop inflation in Orbán. Therefore, the shadow government is also the only hope for the citizens of Crab Palota, Pestújhely, New Palota and Újpest. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-05-02-295	Thank you, Congressman. Andrea Hegedüs, from the DK Group, applied for a post-meeting speech:. The Orbán government has kidnapped our schools and is humiliating the teachers. The teachers in Miskolc don't want the Vengeance Act. It's an address. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2023-05-02-296	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, The teachers of Miskolc are famous for the plaid shirt and umbrella protest and the knowledge procession throughout the country. But they don't want fame, they want freedom, respect and democratic working conditions. They are not slaves, they are not day laborers, they are not robots: they want to teach, and students simply learn. Teaching and learning is as simple as just one, but you can't do it anymore. In the cauldron of another fidesz witch kitchen, there's a plan to bind a teacher, a student, a parent. The components of the poison are: increasing notice and probation, eliminating the freedom of speech of teachers, adopting pedagogical programmes entrusted to fidesz cadres and intimidation and monitoring of the teacher, the parent. However, the antidote is also prepared. Once again, from Miskolc, a series of actions by the PS and the Teachers Movement were launched, in which teachers at the high school in the district were asked whether the introduction of the planned status law would worsen or improve the situation of public education. A hundred percent said it would make things worse. More than 200 people have signed a petition that says that the status law is harmful. [[21.40]] However, the union quite rightly does not stop and also prepare a survey between elementary school teachers and teachers. I'm not a psychic, but I think it's going to be the same situation and the result. Do you even know what the point of the teaching process is? Its essence is to provide an experience and to experience this process as a success for both teachers and students. The aim is to develop talent, equal opportunities, non-discrimination and strengthen individual skills, as in other countries of Europe, where all children receive European-level, democratic and free education. The shadow government of the Democratic Coalition is working for this. On the other hand, today's school is Fidesz's school; it's not all of us's, it's theirs. The Orbán government's education strategy is doomed to failure, based on revenge, on intimidation. The focus is on limiting spiritual knowledge, focusing on limiting spiritual knowledge, where the student is excited about whether tomorrow he will receive teaching lessons from a teacher qualified as a specialist, his daily dose of knowledge, or he will simply be sentenced to child preservation, and he will lose the valuable teaching class. How does the parent provide the child with a stable, predictable future if the draft Vengeful Law is expected to result in 25,000 teachers missing from the school system? There are already 16,000 teachers and 14,000 teaching and learning colleagues less. According to statistics, the school district centre in Miskolc employed 54 people in 2021 and 107 fewer teachers in 2022. The insider's plan, it seems, is that the man who can think is not needed, is not to be a man able to think in this country, in this little country that is running out of weight, to completely upset the lives of public education workers. It's the teachers' turn today. What about tomorrow? All residents of the country must wake up, and indifference must be replaced by activity. Education is a national matter. We can't be a country of nodding Johns where we dance like the Fidesz whistles. Fidesz-KDNP kidnapped our schools and humiliated our teachers. The teachers in Miskolc don't want the status code, they don't want the Vengeance Act. The shadow government is the only chance, hope, and alternative against another educational shackle of the Orbán system. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-05-02-297	Thank you very much. After the agenda, Mr Ferenc Varga asked for a speech with the title 'Insufficient crisis management'. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-02-298	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to current food inflation, hundreds of thousands of families are forced to be deprived, but you, pro-government representatives, stand by and watch. There is no man in this country who does not feel the impact of inflation in Orbán. While the value of payments has decreased by 20 percent, it reduces the 43 percent of food prices in Europe. This level of food growth has been in Hungary for more than seventy years. The government destroyed the forint, let the sovereign debt run away, and lost our country's EU funds with 12 years of continuous theft. Together, they cause inflation in Orbán. That's what we feel every time we shop, that's what we pay in stores. This is not about the sanctions you have voted for. War-torn Ukraine is not as high in inflation as we are. Are you aware that household consumption patterns differ? Households with lower incomes consume more of the products and services that are essential and necessary for the maintenance of life. Thus, they cannot adapt their consumption flexibly, they are less adaptable to the rise in prices, as they cannot give up consumption of basic products, such as food and overhead. In English, the poorer someone is, the more he spends his income on food in proportion. I know, I know, that you don't need a thousand-forint bread, and you can buy quality and nutritious food. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have been ruling with unlimited power since the fourth cycle, but this power is used not to serve the people, but to eviscerate it, because for you, even in times of economic and social crisis, theft, the pals and the dog are the first. Do you know how many children fall asleep hungry every day in this country? Well, is this the family-friendly government? ! Is this the government that protects children and families with teeth and nails? Do you know how much a pack of diapers, a baby food, or any child-rearing articles cost? Are you aware of the expenses faced by families raising children because of your misguided crisis management? You do nothing to deal with the economic and social crisis, but instead you think people are stupid with pretend measures like mandatory weekly action. You have just committed to action the large food chains that are already taking action every week. There's no man in this country who hasn't seen such ads or newspapers on sale. The government, of course, wants to act like it's because of him. They are silently silent, however, that you are the huge winners of population-enhancing inflation, because by collecting the world record VAT, their incomes have risen to a high level. A responsible government looking after its citizens would use this amount to help those in distress. It would help small earners, small pensioners, people with disabilities, public workers, and all those whose livelihoods are being drastically threatened by the social crisis, those who are day to day wondering what to put on the table for their children. Your government has received the rating from the Hungarian people: insufficient from crisis management. We would, among other things, introduce the European minimum wage, the quarterly pension correction and significantly reduce the VAT on basic foods and on wages. It seems that the shadow government is Hungary's only hope of finding a way out of the livelihood crisis and living in European prosperity, fulfilling the dream of the Hungarians for a thousand years. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-05-02-299	Thank you very much, Congressman. Zoltán Varga, from the DK Group, applied for a post-meeting speech: The Government has deceived and constantly humiliated people with disabilities! It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-05-02-300	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, The soul of all good-hearted people is crying, its throat is closing when you think of the social conditions of Orbán Hungary, the unscrupulous and depraved social policy of the government. We see that the public money is pouring into the bottomless pockets of the Orbán-dude oligarchs, the secret, inexplicable roads of government luxury planes to satisfy Orbán's sick mania, which, of course, mainly target resorts and tourist havens, and where, of course, Viktor Orbán himself and his family appear regularly, obviously not by chance. And we can see that the public money is pouring into stupid and ridiculous forestless canopy walkways, when we see that the government is destroying families with disabilities. But now they're bashing away our money, shamelessly and without any particular explanation, and I could take the bloody sweats of the people of a country to luxury, palaces, and God knows what else. In the meantime, a worked life, a possible health damage, illness, accident, and in many cases people who live in unique, unwary financial conditions who can barely afford to live their lives, hundreds of thousands of people are taken out by the government and kicked at them again, often the last, as we can see that the life expectancy of these sections of society is decreasing in particular. With cynical laws, possibly intended to make it impossible for people with disabilities to have an otherwise legitimate remedy. As you can remember, Orbán immediately began to govern by simply transferring thousands of disabled people to health, so that the state would not have to pay them full compensation. And what is a drama, though not surprising, is that the legal, administrative tricks have not stopped since then, and the government has even brought it to the legal level. [[21.50]] According to the law, after the authority has established a certain amount for the provision of persons with disabilities, it is possible to recalculate and increase the amount of aid for a total of five years after the decision. Five years! And I'll give you a specific example: for example, if someone, after the amount of aid they received was unlawfully established and in 2017 submitted a request for review of all of this, and then the Ministry of Interior didn't say anything to them until this year, did they delay the decision and figure out how many years since 2017? Math isn't hard. Yeah, it's five years. We've just missed the deadline, the support stays as low as it was. What does the Home Office do? Please, wash your hands, they really can't help it, they say the law has decided so. And, obviously, it is clear that the law was deliberately designed by Orbán's system not to increase the amount of subsidies. Orbán's cynical dictatorship deliberately left thousands of disabled pensioners on the side of the road, filling their own buddy's pockets with billions every day. But if that wasn't enough, well, here's another cynical facial toaster scandal: the government is prosecuting disabled families that it humiliates. Yeah, that's where we are. Despite last year's final judgment, the Ministry of Interior turned to the Mansion, which said that the state cannot be forced to help. Do you understand that? ! It is not possible to force aid, even if the state fails to fulfil its statutory task. It's nothing more than the brutal smearing of human dignity. The Curia has said, please, that, in fact, these families and all people with disabilities are entitled to subsidised housing in Budapest, but it has also said that they are aware that there is no room in the capital, but there is not much in the country, but the creation of this can not be enforced by civil lawsuit against public authorities. Do you understand that? Well, that's crazy. Orbán has no justice in Hungary and no legal certainty. This will be returned to the Hungarians by the Dobrev government, which will soon stand up; it will restore faith, hope for the Hungarian society and the people with disabilities, that they will also have the right and opportunity to live a better, fairer, happier life. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and the independent.]]
u2023-05-02-301	Thank you, Congressman. After the agenda, Judit Ráczné Földi, from the Democratic Coalition Group, applied for a post-mortem speech:. Good owner of the School District in Székesfehérvár? It's an address. Here you go.
u2023-05-02-302	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Until 2013, primary school owners were local governments, and each year the general assembly of Székesfehérvár planned the costs of its schools in its annual budget, which was covered by the normative and the local government's own revenue. Székesfehérvár was able to decide on all issues concerning the institution, including its organisational and operational rules, pedagogical programme and annual work plan. School directors were free to farm from the budget approved for the institution. The local government saw into the lives of the schools and knew their everyday problems. Due to the close local connection, he was able to act as quickly as possible, without having to go through the bureaucratic path, for example, because of a boiler failure. Székesfehérvár made decisions concerning schools in the interest of about 7,500 students and thousands of workers before nationalisation according to its financial and financial possibilities. At the end of November 2012, the National Assembly adopted the law on the public reservation of public education institutions, under which, from 1 January 2013, the employer's right of teachers, their wage financing and the provision of teaching equipment were also included in the tasks of the State. Members of the Parliament of Székesfehérvár, Tamás Varga, Gábor Törő and András Cser-Palkovics, the mayor of the city, supported the legislation by their vote, thus contributing to the state control of the Székesfehérvár primary schools from the city of Székesfehérvár. However, nationalisation cannot hide the fact that Hungary spent the fourth smallest amount of money on public education in 2019 in the European Union, while Sweden spent 4.7 percent of GDP on public education in 2020. This also indicates that it was never important for the Government of Viktor Orbán to improve the situation of education and to appreciate our teachers. In most cases, the school buildings were municipal owned prior to the nationalisation and remained in it afterwards, but they had to be transferred to the school district centers for asset management. We pushed over the bike, says Zoltán Balog, Minister of Human Resources. Over-centralisation has been mitigated after these sentences, and instead of the badly failed KLIK, the school district centers have been set up since 2016. After the nationalization, Székesfehérvár no longer has a say in what is happening in the primary schools owned by it, the maintainer must seek the opinion of the general assembly of Székesfehérvár only before deciding to terminate, reorganize, change his or her duties and establish his or her name. The city of Székesfehérvár did not abandon its primary schools after nationalization, it does so that children can play as much sport as possible under state frameworks, with the money of the Székesfehérvár people. At the general meeting of the town of Székesfehérvár on 6 April 2023, the proposal came out of the sky as a lightning strike that the Bory Jenő School of the Vasvári Pál Primary School would be terminated with its successor. This school has a 40-year history. Prior to the presentation, the news was not published anywhere, nor has it ever been known how the parents were informed. The school district with a reduction in the number of students [[Sic!]] That's why I'm here. The students continue to work in the building of their headquarters at a distance of 750 metres. This shows the total insensitiveness of the district. We're not talking about distance here, we're talking about children, parents, employees. The lack of information shows that the primary school, which was decided to terminate, was still waiting for students to enroll in person. But will the administrator, the school secretary, the maintenance worker, and the seven cleaning workers also be required at the headquarters? Is the school district a good owner of Székesfehérvár schools? We already know the answer: definitely not. Teachers and the whole education have been stepchildren of this government for 13 years. When the masses of children do not receive proper education because there is no teacher, or there is absolutely no afternoon employment, or there are no language teachers, we call it a breakdown of education. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and the independent.]]
u2023-05-02-303	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. I'm closing this meeting.
