u2023-05-03-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 17th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and Dániel Z. Carpathian notaries will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, Máté Kanász-Nagy, Deputy Head of the LMP Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech on our current affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-05-03-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, When I asked yesterday about the regulation of social media, the regulation of video-sharing platforms, specifically the regulation of the TikTok divider platform, the limitation of people under the age of 18, Secretary of State Eszter Vályos said that the government would examine and examine the proposals of the LMP. I would like to get to this point today, too, that at least I will get such a positive response to our next proposal that the government will also examine this. This proposal now concerns the area of health, a very important and very serious issue, which is essentially linked to the reduction of waiting lists. We know that, unfortunately, Hungary is a leader in the European Union today in terms of how many people die in a disease that could otherwise have been prevented. So a lot of people are getting sick, there are a lot of serious diseases, and unfortunately we are losing a lot of people in Hungary because we do not recognise these diseases in time and we cannot treat them in time. In fact, the reason for this is partly the existence of long waiting lists, the fact that a diagnostic examination requires long weeks, even months to wait for ultrasound examination, MR, CT, or, where appropriate, various hospital treatments or surgeries, in some cases, even years to wait. So the most important thing to do is to reduce waiting time, booking lists, and waiting lists. And there are two areas where the state has a very important task: there is public health, which is a lack of capacity. One of the important reasons for this lack of capacity is the fact that over the past decade hundreds and thousands of billions have been withdrawn from health care. If we look at the financing of public health in proportion to GDP, and here I say the figures of KSH and Eurostat, according to the latest data, this is 7.3 percent in Hungary, including public and private health expenditure, but in the European Union it is close to 11 percent. So here's a serious catch-up. If we look at state expenditure alone, 5.2 percent, this is very, very low, it is also several percentage points higher in the EU, and we are talking about an average here, and even in the period before Covid, there was a year in 2019 when public health funding fell to a low level of 25 years. These hundred and a thousand billion forints have been missing from health care ever since. These must obviously be replaced and public capacities must be built up in order to reduce waiting lists. But there is another area and this is the area of private health. If someone wants to heal, right, he has two choices; in quotes, it's two times a hard choice, because one of them, if he's trying to heal in public health, is there, right, you have to wait, or in private health, where you might have an appointment for next week or even the next day, but it's very, very expensive, and it's getting more expensive. And all of this is happening in the middle of the inflation crisis. In this situation, we believe that the increase in prices of private health should be curbed. We will ask the government to submit a proposal to introduce a maximum price for certain services of private health. In private health, there is a strong capacity for instruments, tools and human resources, and there is no potential for capacity problems or shortages. We have seen this in other areas where the government introduced, say, the pricestop institution. We believe that certain services of private health, screening tests, diagnostic tests and various areas of obstetric gynecology should be included in the price cap, and that price increases should be prevented in order to ensure that healthcare is available and affordable for those seeking welfare in private health. And we know that they are very, very many; practically two thirds of the Hungarian population, this statistics have already used the service of private health at least once; very, very many people come here because they cannot find their welfare in public health. Therefore, resources need to be increased in public health and the provision of a maximum price in private health. I look forward to the Government representative's position on this. Thank you very much.
u2023-05-03-2	Thank you very much, Congressman Máté Kanász-Nagy. His speech before the agenda will be answered on behalf of the Government by Secretary-General Bence Rétvári.
u2023-05-03-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, First of all, I'd like to use numbers to disprove some of the things you've tried to say here in Parliament. When we took over the government, the health budget included HUF 1198 billion, which is now HUF 2800 billion. So there's an increase of 1,600 billion, 134 percent increase in the health register. What you're saying is that there have been withdrawals in health care, this is undoubtedly true for the period before 2010, when those with whom you are politicalising have led the country. During this period, HUF 600 billion was withdrawn from Hungarian health care, and we are now adding an annual surplus of HUF 1600 billion, for example because if I watch only the last four years, we have raised the wages of nurses by 72 percent, and now from July an increase of 18 percent will be added, and next March will be next. We have made the biggest wage increase of all time with doctors, as the salary of doctors in the wage increase programme launched during the coronal virus epidemic has increased 2 to 2.5 times.Today, a starting doctor can expect a starting salary of much more than HUF 600 thousand, and 20 years ago, the doctor on the field has HUF 1.5 million towards the end of the course, so he has 40 years of experience and has a basic salary of HUF 2.1 million. So these are numbers you couldn't even dream of ten years ago. And at the same time, we managed to get the thanks money out of the Hungarian health care system, which deformed the entire healthcare system for seventy years. If there was something that led the whole system in the wrong direction, deformed it, slowed it down even though the term "slowed it down" may not be the best, but the term "defenced" is certainly beneficial, it was the gratuity money system, because it was not necessarily the interventions that were optimal for the patient's health, but, in some cases, the one that was optimal for paras solvency. So this was one of the most important steps that has been made in recent years. As you say, it is clear from the international statements that the indicators, the indicators that relate to the way of life, so when living can prevent a disease, Hungary has a lot of opportunities to make progress here. Even if you are watching the coronal virus epidemic, overweight has been one of the most important aspects of the risk of the course of the coronal virus, and there is much we can do about this and other issues. That's why we introduced new screenings, colon and rectal screenings. Therefore, it is important that we want to prevent disease with HPV vaccination or others, or we want to recognise them earlier. [[9.10]] Here we have introduced two new screenings in recent years, national public health screening, precisely so that diseases can be recognised as soon as possible, so that we can prevent these diseases or their very serious course. As far as waiting lists are concerned, honourable Member, when your allies governed, there was no waiting list in Hungary, there were only small box booklets, we introduced the national, transparent, electronic waiting list registration system. Then there were 28,000 people waiting for cataract surgery, now 12,000, and then there were 11,000 waiting for hip replacement surgery, now 7,000. These numbers were also lower in 2019, before the epidemic, and since then health has not worked out the full disadvantage of the epidemic, which is unfortunately accumulated in the epidemic, but it is also progressing in this; as the government has spent HUF 63 billion to reduce the waiting list in recent years by adding up significant amounts to the waiting list reduction programmes of the last few years. Let's see, in the case of cataracts, in which countries the actual waiting time is shorter than that of Hungarians! Lithuania, Italy, the Netherlands, Denmark and Sweden are ahead, followed by England, New Zealand, Spain, Chile, Portugal, Poland, Finland, Israel, Norway, Australia and Estonia. If you look at the OECD for hip replacement surgery, you can see that we have Denmark, the Netherlands, Italy, Finland, Israel, behind us are England, New Zealand, Sweden, Portugal, Norway, Spain, Lithuania, Australia, Poland, Estonia and Chile. Indeed, many have experience, and even in the case of surgeries, but also outpatient orders, that there is longer waiting time than everyone can accept; this must continue to be worked on, and this must continue to be reduced. Therefore, last December we adopted a legislative amendment to a broader review of outpatient orders, which was made in April by the National Hospital Directorate-General, who was responsible for this task, so that we could make the exact decision this spring, at the beginning of this summer, to reduce the waiting list in outpatient clinics. So I think that this is one of our most important tasks, and it is certainly our most important task, because that is what people think. When all health leaders were convened by Minister Sándor Pintér at the National University of Public Service for a full-day meeting, one of the priorities was to reduce waiting lists for all Hungarian health leaders. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-03-4	Thank you very much, Secretary of State of Rétvári. Tamás Mellar, the representative of the Dialogue, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-05-03-5	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, A few days ago, the latest budget figures came to light, with a budget deficit of HUF 564 billion in March and a total deficit of HUF 2090 billion between January and March. This annual appropriation, which has been amended several times, is 61 percent, so more than half of the annual budget has already been spent in the first quarter; an excess debt of HUF 220,000 per person has been incurred by all Hungarian citizens. Even more worrying, however, is the fact that consumption tax revenues increased very little by only 5 percent in March compared to March of the previous year, and if we count that inflation was 25.2%, then it is easy to calculate that consumption decreased roughly by nearly 20 percent, i.e. we can conclude that the Hungarian people are living worse this year than last year. By the way, this figure also anticipates that the revenue allocation will not be made on an annual basis. At the same time, however, budgetary expenditure is growing dynamically: interest payments on government debt are greatly increased, and due to high inflation, pension adjustment and other wage increases are needed, which also increase expenditure. Obviously, the expenditure in rem has also increased significantly due to high inflation. Domestic and foreign expert analyses warn me that over the past period and now I quote:, much more budget commitments have been made than the amount of money from the European Union for seven years as a whole, completed by subpoenas. And more and more domestic and foreign experts claim that one-and-a-half percent economic growth is an over-optimistic goal; in fact, much less growth is to be expected. So now, at the beginning of May 2023, we are saying that the budget plan cannot be kept, because the macro numbers on which it is based will not be met, although the current budget is already the second amendment to the original budget law, because once in December, the government amended it in its own power, we can say, arbitraryly, without parliamentary authority, and then in March, the Fidesz majority of Parliament adopted the new amendments; and now we will need new amendments. The government has to decide whether to impose special taxes on individual sectors or to introduce retail restrictions or to take out new loans, or to use a combination of the three financing elements. Whatever you decide to do, you will do it on your own authority, without asking people, with reference to the extraordinary situation. It is clear from the embarrassing fate of the Budget Act 2023 that it is not important for the Orbán Government to have a realistic basis for the fiscal law and its consistent implementation, or even the institution of the supplementary budget. All important budgetary decisions will be taken by the Prime Minister, which we, concerned, will only be informed about later by the Hungarian Gazette. And the history of fiscal horror continues, as next week the draft budget law of 2024 will be put in place. The fact that, now, at the beginning of May 2023, in this uncertain world, there is no certainty as to what will happen next year, what trends will be enforced, and even what will happen in the second half of this year, does not seem to bother the government, since it will not work on the basis of the budget law. The government seems to view the budget law as a fig leaf, which is intended to cover the fact that the country's budget is, in fact, the faith trust of Viktor Orbán. But the fact is that this fig leaf is getting smaller and more and more visible are real trends. So here, to live with an image disorder, not only the horse's leg, but the whole horse is hanging out. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition ranks. Dr. István Apáti: The whole herd!]]
u2023-05-03-6	Thank you very much, Congressman Tamás Mellar. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai will respond to the speech before the agenda. [[9.20]]
u2023-05-03-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I think that this genre is not unknown in Parliament, when left-wing politicians and MEPs are alarming the public that the end has come, the budget is collapsing, the economy is not working, and how much trouble there will be in the country. We've been listening to this for years. Compared to this, the reality, by the time the performance is done, is quite different. This was quite different in 2022, as by 2022 it was already said that the economy would not meet and that the budget would lose its balance. Compared to this, we have achieved GDP growth of 4.6 percent, which is significantly higher than the 4.3 percent projected in the convergence programme and 1.1 percent higher than the EU average. With this performance, Hungary's relative development improved further over the last year, rising to 78 percent of the EU average. I would like to point out to Congressman the convergence programme that has been submitted in the past few days. If you look at the convergence programme, you can see that the Ministry of Finance has submitted to the European Commission figures that can be achieved. A 1.5 percent increase can be achieved by 2023, but most importantly, we will avoid recession. The following year, in 2024, is expected to be a major economic growth. This is projected to be 4 percent in the convergence programme. At the same time, we will not make the balance indicators worse, and we will also improve it, as it will bring the government's deficit below 3 per cent in the next budget year, in 2024. At the same time, contrary to your suggestion, the sovereign debt ratio will continue to decline. This rate will be reduced to 66.7 per cent; to 63.9 per cent for the following year and 2025. Of course, you can say that this is not going to happen, but it hasn't worked once before. Rather, we should believe the institutions that examined Hungary and classified it as one of the countries recommended for investment. It is very important to say that the Hungarian economy and the Hungarian budget can achieve this performance without EU funds arriving. They will not arrive, because your ally Ferenc Gyurcsány said that it is their patriotic duty to prevent EU funds from arriving in Hungary, so that teachers do not raise wages, so that economic operators do not receive the funds to preserve jobs, create jobs, increase investment. I would be very interested to know that your party, personally you agree with this, what's more, supports it, and encourages your own EU Member to do so, and that the Hungarian people elected them to go out to Brussels and work against their own country to make the budget deficit that you are talking about worse. But you can see that all this is in vain, because the Hungarian government is able to ensure budgetary balance, protect families, protect workers, and protect pensioners, too, against you. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-03-8	Thank you very much, Mr András Tállai, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, István Apáti, Deputy Head of the Group of Mi Hazank, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-05-03-9	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Without exaggeration, we can say that the sun is the only or most democratic energy source that is normally available in a way that is equally accessible to everyone. Of course, there are already significant differences in the ability to access it in terms of income, wealth, technical possibilities, or even legal obstacles. I gave my speech before the agenda the title "Snappers" because I do not consider you a slacker before there is a misunderstanding between us, but those who were unable to comply with their legislative obligations by the deadline of 31 March. I also consider the energy policy leadership to be a slacker, Madam Secretary of State, which now, in the middle of creating a new world order, in the middle of a Russian-American war in Ukraine, is doing exactly the opposite of what the Hungarian population, the Hungarian businesses, would need. If not literally, but figuratively, the purchase of solar energy is stolen, it is possible to use it from the population. Here's the thing. Last October you ordered a ban on entry for false reasons, a feed-in stop for false reasons. They said they'd launch a review of the traffic areas by March 31, and, where appropriate, they'd unlock the stop. I would like to point out to you that there was no point in extending until 31 August, and I would also like to say to you that this ban should be lifted at the latest today in all the traffic zones in the country; because the network is currently able to sustain further public feed-in everywhere, Madam Secretary of State. Behind the whole story lies the gas lobby, and it is in a man named Andrew who is responsible. I'm about to tell you that I didn't mean Secretary András Tállai. The András I was thinking of is not sitting in this Chamber. The gas lobby is behind the whole case, the leader of which stated that he does not want to contribute to the installation of solar power plants, nor does he want to hear about it. Here's the thing, Madam Secretary. Now, when Prime Minister Viktor Orbán himself said that we need to get off the gas, we need to get off the Russian gas, then what do you suggest to the Hungarian population: how, in what way? 'Cause if we don't heat gas, there's not a lot of options left. There remains an outdated and less and less applied oil heating, relatively common but limited availability of wood heating, but the most perfect solution would be electricity-based heating. The possibility of accessing H tariff represents an advance cost of 2 to 2.5 million HUF per property, which is not available to many households, and a solar system of 4 to 5 kilowatts can be established from this amount. The entry ban will be proposed by 31 August. There is a good chance that this procedure will be delayed so that by the end of this year no new solar power plant, household solar power plant, can be installed or connected in any household. Another important question is how long they want to ensure the possibility of annual accounts, which has undoubtedly been a great help, a special discount for the Hungarian people so far. We were the last EU country to make use of this, and this must undoubtedly be acknowledged. However, the only solution, Madam Secretary of State, would be to release the feed-in stop with immediate effect, to try to speed up the substantive processing of the 200 thousand applications received by the end of last October, and to make available to as many Hungarian households and Hungarian businesses as possible the possibility of joining the network so that those who join by 31 December 2023 can use the annual accounts for at least 10 years and not the monthly accounts. However, we are very far from it. It is clear that you want to make this impossible by legislative, administrative means. He is doing exactly the opposite of what all the Member States of the European Union and the rational half of the world in general are doing now. What advice is there for those who have used green credit and are now completely clueless; because without solar power plants, without solar panels, they cannot meet the requirements for building zero or nearly zero energy requirements? [[9.30]] What do you advise those who are waiting for the rules on gross settlement which they should have drawn up by 31 March, but you are also deeply silent about it; you do not seem to have any idea what should be done. When will 112 billion HUF be paid for the 35 000 won, 100 percent aid intensity tender? And when are they finally going to side with the Hungarian people in terms of not making them bitter? [[The president's ringing the bell.]] make life and access to the most democratic energy source more difficult but easier? I look forward to your substantive answers. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-05-03-10	Thank you very much, Congressman István Apáti. State Secretary Zsófia Koncz will answer on behalf of the government.
u2023-05-03-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Here you have chosen the title "Snappers" for your speech before the agenda. Well, I would like to reject this in all aspects, and there are very, very specific factual data on why I can do this. For example, according to a recent study by an international think tank dealing with clean energy, Hungary is ranked 6th in the world and 3rd in the share of solar energy in the electricity mix in Europe. The analysis also mentions our country, who increased their solar capacity in electricity generation by more than 10 percent from 2015 to 2022, and in total 11 countries in the world are named Finland, Portugal and Sweden, from Europe to Hungary. I think these are very important figures, but if you look at the extent to which solar energy is available to the population, well, this government has really been working over the past few years to create very favourable conditions and a serious support facility to provide as many families as possible with solar panels. According to March 1 data, more than 185 thousand solar power plants of household size produced electricity with a total of 1632 megawatts built-in power. I think that these figures speak for themselves, and I must also say that in 2020, the share of energy from renewable energy sources in gross final energy consumption increased to almost 14 percent, thus practically achieving the EU's objectives. And as to what kind of bullshit and I don't know what other words you've been using have resulted in a practically unthinkable decision, I would like to quote Minister Csaba Lantos' interview yesterday. He said, "Let's fix it up a little bit." When this so-called accession stop was announced last October, hundreds of thousands of small power plants of so-called household size were reported. This 100,000 power plants are still under way, they're still in operation, and there's a lot of them. I go on: it wasn't a complete stop, because if someone puts a battery next to the solar power plant, it can submit their claim at any time today, and we bet it because it virtually ensures that they won't charge the grid. Why is this stop situation happening? Because these new, weather-dependent, primarily solar installation needs come up to such an extent that in many places the network cannot withstand the load, the cable would burn. However, since this is not a homogeneous situation in the country, I would like to stress to the Member that a serious task force is working on it and is looking at how to make the right decisions throughout the country, and by the end of summer, in September, we will see where these accession points should be lifted. And how topical this issue is throughout Europe I hope that the Member will follow these news, and on Easter Monday, our Czech friends turned off 400 megawatts of solar panels from the system without a word, and a week later, the Poles cut 600 megawatts in an instant because they saw a systemic security risk. So there is a situation where we have to partially redesign and we are working to deal with this situation properly. That is why we also consider it very important to establish balancing energy, the construction of these so-called CCGT power plants, which are very important to ensure that even if these weather-dependent energies do not produce, the energy supply of Hungarian families should be sufficiently secure. And I think that we have achieved incredible success with regard to solar energy, and that the Minister has said a few more concrete things about the future. He said that the 100,000 residential power plants will be 1000-1500 megawatts, there is a 5 thousand megawatts of industrial demand, by 2027-28 it will be an incredible number of 10 thousand megawatts of solar power plants, and by 2030 we could be talking about up to 12,000 megawatts, by 2030 we originally promised the European Union 6.5 thousand megawatts of solar power plants. So what I can say is that this government has been incredibly supportive of solar power plants over the past few years, and I think that we are still working for Hungarian families in the future. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] secure sufficient and affordable energy. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-03-12	Thank you very much, Mrs Zsófia Koncz. What's next, Hungarian farmers? János Bencze, representative of Jobbik, asked to speak before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-05-03-13	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In my last speech, I was pleased to say that I managed to stand up for the interests of Hungarian farmers, that until 30 June 2023 there was an import ban on EU grain crops, cereals and other products, and I would like to highlight honey among them. The farmers asked you to keep fighting, and 30 June 2026 should be the date until no crop is allowed to arrive, only to pass through the country, because the humanitarian corridor is needed, but Hungarian farmers and Hungarian agriculture do not need unlimited import, low-quality or suspicious Ukrainian products, grain or honey. In the last few days, news has been released to you as a good news, and the pro-government press has also said that they have won a battle, that an agreement has been reached. We can read, we can count, we read: June 5th is in it, and only that there is no way to bring grain into those Member States that have acted against it. Everyone of us has the common sense of a common peasant, and we know precisely that if the Ukrainian grain reaches Austria or any Member State that is not part of this alliance, so to speak, it will turn around and come back. So I do not know who made the mistake here, and I very much hope that you will continue to fight, and the farmers will also tell you to keep fighting, so that you can't come in, or come in as much as you need, and that you can only come in from what is of the right quality, which is produced under the right conditions of production, which is GMO-free, so that the competitive disadvantage is not created, and that the conditions of equal production remain. The other thing the beekeepers sent as Hungarian farmers is asking what will happen to them. Everyone was very pleased that you were also fighting for honey, as our agricultural minister is our beekeeper, but somehow now the honey has been missed, and this is particularly painful in the situation that this morning the news has come that the purchase of honey in Hungary will be in good case after the cafe, at the end of May, early June. Thanks to this huge amount of suspicious import honey entering Europe and our country. In the name of the beekeeper and the host society, I would ask you to do your best for the beekeepers. Put the honey from Ukraine on the same ban list. Hungary should not be the packing place and forwarding place of honey imported from abroad, as everything points to the fact that this is happening in Hungary. The largest aid was granted to an undertaking in the bee-keeping sector, the packaging sector, which ingestes the country with the most import honey. I tried to get data on this, they said that they could not provide data in any way, which would indicate what amount of honey is imported into Hungary by which company. Why is that important? It is important because in every EU report, in every Hungarian specialty, people see that imported honey, more than 50 percent of honey imported from outside the EU, is a forgery, which destroys the Hungarian honey market. And the farmers sent another message: they ask you with respect that, since Hungarian crops were stuck in the last year because of export bans, as the export ban expired, cheap Ukrainian grain fell upon us, and there is a huge amount of real Hungarian crops in storage that can be asked of farmers, they could not sell this last year, and the family farms and the farmers of origin will be greatly affected by this from a tax point of view. The 2022 crop, which would have been valued in the 2022 tax year, would have to be sold in 2023, so they will have double income in one year; they will lose all the tax incentives that you, the government, provided very well for these farmers. [[9.40]] Farmers are asking you to do everything you can to remedy this exceptional situation in tax terms, so farmers who have proven to be not selling or selling a minimum quantity last year can sell their crops this year, so to speak, at the expense of last year's tax incentives. Thank you very much. That is all I would ask, and I hope that you have heard, and I hope that you will do so for the Hungarian farmers. Thank you. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and DK.]]
u2023-05-03-14	Thank you very much, Mr János Bencze. On behalf of the Government, Mr Sándor Farkas will respond to the speech before the agenda.
u2023-05-03-15	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, these three issues, which you have just raised, concern the Hungarian economy, but it is perhaps the cereal situation that is perhaps the most and the widest circle in the field of agriculture in the first place. I'd like to share some thoughts about that with you. Under the Government Decree, the ban on imports is originally and still applies to 25 product products. Unlucky or unlucky, Brussels bureaucracy would like to narrow this down to only four product types. We are not partners in this, I would like to say to you, so the four product categories include wheat, maize and sunflowers. These are practically the items that can pass through the country as transit traffic. We do not want to affect transit traffic. What you're suggesting is that you can transfer a transit shipment to Austria and come back from there, we can measure and track this through the EKAER system. The Authority's action is very strict in this, and we would like to present examples of this to the Hungarian economy, which will not be a deterrent, but it will be a warning and an example that certain items will arrive in Hungary in such a quality. By examining these items, we have seen in many cases either a GMO set, and we have seen grain consignments that are contaminated with or higher than other pesticides, which are unacceptable to Hungarian consumers and to the Hungarian standard. Some of these items are unfortunately stuck in the country, so let's be honest, we can't take this back. Some of these traders are probably missing or afraid to admit it. For this reason, just this week a survey sheet from the Ministry of Agriculture was launched for farmers to assess their storage bases, where, how much stocks there are, and if these farmers are even willing to tell us where these supplies came from, we will get a much clearer picture. Indeed, you are right that this measure seems to be too late. I would like to tell you that in January this year, the agricultural government of Hungary made this request in Brussels. Later, the Poles, the Slovaks, the Czechs and the Romanians tried to join us, and we have now come to the point of taking this request of the Hungarian farming community seriously, but indeed, the deadline, as you mentioned, is only being set for the first days of June, which is totally unacceptable to us, even because if someone is looking around from the car and seeing something, it can see that the autumn barley is puking out its grain, the wheat is also at war, so on the day of Peter-Pál there is expected to be a harvest in the first crops. So from this point of view, this period is very heightened, and I have already said in my earlier statements that I already consider 30 June short and should indeed be pushed out for a later period. It's a matter of negotiation, we're partners with everyone. Unfortunately, Brussels refuses to take these points into its own, so to speak. The other question we have less time for is the question of beekeeping. Indeed, with regard to consignments of honey which were allowed to arrive freely in the European Union, I think I can tell you precisely that about 5,000 tonnes of honey had come into the EU without customs duties in recent years, and that these shipments were subject to only a 17.5 percent duty, so they came without customs duties. These are largely counterfeit items, or low quality honey products that do not comply with the Hungarian standard, and even specifically reduced and reduced the local economic interests and potential of Hungarian honey producers and beekeepers. Therefore, we have included the Union in this issue, which does not wish to accept, but yet we have included the fact that the imports of these Ukrainian beekeepers into Hungary are prohibited, so to speak, and we would like to achieve that without Hungarian beekeepers, without bees, there really is no suitable crop production, there is no suitable product. Therefore, we want to avoid these beekeeper farmers going bankrupt and providing them with extra help and support, which, of course, does not solve the whole vertice. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We have the help on our part, so we stand up for the Hungarian economy. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-03-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Farkas. Dear Parliament, Ms Ágnes Kunhalmi, representative of the MSZP, spoke before the agenda on the subject of current issues. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2023-05-03-17	Thank you very much. The current issue is the pedagogical status law, and I am pleased to see that Mr Retvári has returned. [[Bence Rétvári: Oops!]] because I would like to say my speech today, following his line of thought, in a lot of ways. [[Nacsa Lőrinc to Bence Rétvári: Shall we go out, Bence?]] What we see with regard to the status law is that the opposition, the trade unions, say this to a large part of teachers in a modern slave law. They say he's being beaten up by teachers, that they dared to protest that they had begun civil disobedience. That's what I think it is. And you say that yesterday you answered one of my fellow politicians' questions: "No, that is not the case, we need a new quality here, we need to restore the prestige of the pedagogical profession, we need to pay better wages, we need to encourage teachers to perform better." Well, I'm asking you, what's stopping the government from raising the wages of teachers in the state of civil servant status anyway? What prevents the government from improving the quality of education and the quality of education in the status of civil servants? This is a very good question, but that is far from the point of view, because you have also said that this is a kind of profession, and that is indeed what is really driving the government's thinking politically. But let's go in line. Many do not understand why they are taking away the status of civil servant. This was introduced after the change of regime so that people who provide services to the state and work for the state in a market economy and capitalism would have a kind of safety net, but unfortunately you will pull this safety net out from under them. Let's get on with the pay, because this is also your favorite area. And that is why I do not understand why it is not possible to raise the wages of teachers as a public employee, because it was Viktor Orbán himself who said at the beginning, after 2010, that we should tie the certain projection fund from which teachers' wages are to be counted, to the minimum wage at any given time. This was held for a year, and then it was revoked. Orbán withdrew a voluntary promise, deceiving the entire pedagogical society, so as a public servant, it could have been a permanent increase in the wages of teachers. Now they say, and you also say, that Brussels, the ugly Union, is the one who does not want to pay for this, and it is the few opposition representatives who are doing everything in their power to try and stop Brussels from paying for it. I don't think that's true, that's not the reason. [[Bence Rétvári: Gyurcsány said...]] But let's start over. In the beginning, I find it problematic that an otherwise sensitive government expects Brussels and the EU to finance an area of national competence. Well, what kind of double speech is that? ! Does that not disturb and violate sovereignty? Mr. Secretary, next time, will the government and you be writing the National Basics in Brussels? Well, it's a shame in the first place that Brussels is already paying wages in an area of national competence, because teachers are in such a bad situation and the profession is so underfunded. [[Bence Rétvári: No, it's ours!]] But it is not because of this that the Brussels money is not coming, it is not because of the opposition representatives, but because of the status law that it is intended to introduce, that Brussels money will not come, and that is why you often say that because of the opposition you do not come, because in fact the status law that you want to introduce would include measures such as maximizing the employment of teachers from 32 hours to 48 hours. For example, they want to reduce the lack of teachers by binding to a nugget, by transferability, or by increasing the workload. [[9.50]] I can see in the press that they're coming back from the negotiations with the unions now, but they're going to overdo it on purpose so that they can come back from something a little bit more in the quasi-false agreement. But there is the fact, for example, that in their pedagogical programme or work plan, the faculty can no longer really talk, the terms of the firings have been relaxed, the teachers can be observed, I see that they are coming back from this, too, in case Brussels does give us some money. You know, the right to strike has been completely nullified, classes and schools can be combined, the extra money for permanent replacement has been reduced by half, the lower pay limit is guaranteed, and I could tell you by the end of the day. In fact, the problem is what's going on here, and that's what needs to be understood clearly. On the one hand, the EFOP that we have here [[He's presenting a document.]] I'm afraid that if you've made an agreement with the government, it's clear that if they're implemented, and if they're inadequate, then the status law will not give you money. But what's important, and I've only got 10 seconds left, is the vocation you're talking about putting educators in a professional order, the state of the fascist state of Mussolini. [[Grumble in the ranks of Fidesz.]] where society is divided into professional orders and must behave solely in accordance with the political-power objectives of the State. We are not talking about a service and a democratic state, we are talking about an official, power-political state, and it is not really a professional issue for you that education told Orbán Pokorni at the time, but it is a political-power issue. That's what I'm talking about. Thank you for your patience. [[Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2023-05-03-18	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi. The speech before the agenda will be answered on behalf of the Government by Secretary-General Bence Rétvári.
u2023-05-03-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, We have come quite far enough, Mrs Mussolini, honourable Member, from the teacher's wage increase and Brussels. Let us begin by saying why we think that it would be an important step for educators to increase their appreciation if, with the bill that we are publishing, we had not yet submitted to Parliament, a special employment relationship in public education would be created. In the civil service relationship, everyone who is a public service employee of the State was involved, but does not exercise public authority. Whoever exercises public authority was obviously a government official, a civil servant, who worked either in health care, education, social field, culture, anywhere else in public services, had a uniform status as a public servant. But when you think about it, on the basis of reason, that it is reasonable to give the same legal status to a doctor who heals and watches; we give the same status to a social worker; we give the same status to a cultural worker, and we give the same to a educator, and I could tell how much for everyone; whether these professions, their schedule, schedule, responsibility, internal hierarchy, everyday operation are so much the same as that of a hospital, a school, a social nursing home, and a cultural house, that they can all be easily consolidated into one legal status. We said that we should value every profession so much that we do not want to keep them in such a uniform part, but, as we did in the medical service relationship, that doctors and nurses had a self-employed service, if the doctors and nurses received it, we believe that teachers are entitled to it. In addition, there are even more teachers, since there are 36-38,000 doctors, social workers, or even health workers, who are nurses of nearly 100,000 order of magnitude, and 170,000 teachers. So there's a lot more of them than anyone else, and they're completely special. The year begins not as much in January as in September; they hold classes, they deal with students, so the nature of the whole relationship is different. Teachers have different rhythms on an annual basis, even on a daily basis than others. There is an opening of the year, a faculty, tutoring, catching up, a study competition, a class trip, a field trip; so he has a different job than a hospital doctor who works in an outpatient clinic for a nurse who helps a doctor. That's why we thought they should have one of their own. If it's for the doctors, it's for the nurses, it's for the teachers. We therefore believe that progress is made, that there is no need to compromise with the others, what it is that can be regulated together in a law on them, but a separate law, that there is no need to bug various laws, law on civil servants, law on labour, law on public education; that there should be everything in it in a law. It's a rent question. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It is important to clarify that the money is not from Brussels and we are going to Brussels to ask for it; it is due to Hungary, it is part of the Hungarian budget, and we have decided to create the largest construction of this EU resource for the teacher's wage increase, worth HUF 800 billion. This could be here a long time ago in the Hungarian budget, but Brussels refuses to give us our own money. That is our money, it cannot be owned by anyone else, the source of Hungary's money, it belongs to the Hungarian people. What is incomprehensible is that you go to Brussels, as Ferenc Gyurcsány admitted, and even Csaba Molnár, Shadow Minister, said that he is proud of his patriotic obligation to prevent a single penny from arriving in Hungary, because there is dictatorship and corruption in Hungary; so it is incomprehensible to us that this is now the strengthening of dictatorship or the strengthening of corruption, if teachers bring home 561 thousand forints as an average wage from tomorrow, and 681 thousand forints from next year, and then around 800 thousand forints from 2025. Do you really believe that this dictatorship and corruption are taking this money away from Hungarian teachers? They're not taking this away from the government, they're taking it away from their own supporters, because the teachers have your supporters and the government's supporters. You will also take this amount from your own supporters, you will not give it to them, even though it could have been in your account since January. We've created a construction that only teachers can lose time, not money. So, when this money arrives, we trust that as soon as possible; we will therefore do our best. I will be interested in your vote today in the case of an important horizontal right criterion, we will decide here today on a two-thirds law, whether you will vote in favour of a bill that is a horizontal condition and will open the way for us to draw closer to EU funds and raise the wages of teachers. Today, you can do the same. But it is annoying to all reasonable Hungarians that the Hungarian left is taking the 6 million HUF salary in Brussels, and then he is trying to avoid paying Hungarian teachers for 800,000 HUF. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Interjection from the lines of the MSZP: Is the left so strong?]]
u2023-05-03-20	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári. The Vice-President of the Momentum Group, Dávid Bedő, also spoke before the agenda, with the title of our current affairs. You have the floor.
u2023-05-03-21	Thank you very much. When you arrive in Hungary by plane and land at Liszt Ferenc Airport, the traveler notices that the government is everywhere proclaiming that it is a family-friendly country. If the ordinary Hungarian man follows the government propaganda, he may think that the government is doing everything in its power to protect Hungarian children. You keep talking about how important Hungarian children are and what they do to protect them. They keep talking about how much emphasis should be placed on family policy, how important it is to have many children. They even named a law on child protection, which, of course, has nothing to do with it, but you claim it, and that's what they say about all the existing surfaces; and that it's necessary to protect the children. Unfortunately, reality is very different. The reality is, on the other hand, that you are not interested in the future of Hungarian children. The truth is that Hungary has never had such an anti-childish government. Even if they force everyone to have another child, they will do nothing to make these children grow up in love and prosperity. Even though innocent children have died in recent years because of domestic violence, you save money from the child protection system. Even though there is not enough nursery space, the kindergartens are crowded, because there are few kindergarten educators, they themselves do not spend enough money to build new nurserys and settle humiliatingly low wages. If child protection were really important to you, they would do something to give Hungarian children quality education and to give them the opportunity to thrive. If you really cared about child protection, you wouldn't be messing with the Vengeance Act. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: How do you speak?]] and threaten teachers who teach children, but would do everything in their power to attract teachers and to appreciate teachers. The Fidesz government's anti-childhood evidence is no better than what happened a week ago. Students, children, who went out on the street to show that teachers who taught them were valued; they went to be honored to live in a country where they could be used and to serve as an educator. They receive centuries of knowledge; these protesting children were sprayed with tear gas on their faces. [[Bence Rétvári: Political activists, my dear friend.]] [[10.00]] If child protection were really important to you, you would do so to be a quality education in this country, to make the teaching career as attractive as possible and to feel appreciated by teachers. In the Momentum, we believe that education is the most important task of the government. We believe that education is the key to a successful nation. We think that we do the most for Hungarian children, that we really protect them when we give them the opportunity to thrive. That's why we presented the plan for Hungary tomorrow [[Bence Rétvári: Oh!]] [[Bence Rétvári: Oh!]] which gives a clear vision. We imagine a knowledge-based nation against the current anti-child education system of Fidesz. Seven percent of GDP should be spent on education. (Bence of Rétvári: Oh!) Teacher wages must be settled once and for all! The teacher's wages should be linked to the average salary and automatically increase annually. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That's what we're doing!]] You have to give the schools clear autonomy, because they know best where the child needs it. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You know best!]] , and in higher education it is necessary to put an end to the harmful and destructive foundation system. You have to work to ensure that the proportion of young graduates reaches 50 percent. These are the cornerstones of a knowledge-based nation. We work for such a Hungary. [[A round of applause from Momentum. Intercoms from the ruling parties: There are quite few of you! A round of applause! You can go to the cash register and get the dollars.]]
u2023-05-03-22	Thank you very much, Congressman Dávid Bedő. The statement before the agenda will be answered by Secretary of State Eszter Vitalyos. You have the floor.
u2023-05-03-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, If you were as concerned about the children of Hungary as we have heard in your speech, then I think you wouldn't put them in front of your vile, violent protests, they wouldn't compromise their physical integrity. [[Interviews from the ranks of Fidesz, among them: That's right!]] For such depraved political purposes. For the Hungarian government, the primacy of family politics is indisputable. This is not just the case now, but it has always been the case for the past 13 years. We do not take away from families in times of crisis and war, as the left did, your allies did, but we provide more support than ever before. Today, it can be said that the Hungarian tax system is truly family-friendly. Thanks to baby shower support, young couples can use an interest-free free-use loan of HUF 10 million, which can become a non-refundable grant in case of childbearing. There has been much talk here in your speech, my dear Member, but I think it is indisputable that there is no virtually Europe, and even in the world, there is no broad support for family policy as there is in Hungary. From 1 January 2021, women who have a child before they are 30 years of age will be granted sja exemption until they are 30 years of age. The government will spend HUF 5 billion on the latest element of the family support system again this year. The Hungarian family tax system provides significant tax benefits alongside the third lowest rate in Europe. In addition, unlike your lying speech, it can be said that there has never been as much nursery space as there is now, and in recent years. We're building a new nursery. By raising the baby care fee from 70 per cent to 100 per cent, we also ensure that mothers receive more money than their previous salary until the child is six months old, and that mothers with four or more children are free from personal income tax for the rest of their lives. Compared to 2010, there has been a 90-percent increase in the number of crèches and more than three times the number of settlements. In my constituency, we hand over the new cradle almost every month or lay the foundation stones. If you've been in that area a lot, I'm sure you'll keep an eye on these constructions and monitor them. 60 percent of children in kindergarten, kindergarten and school age receive free or reduced meals, which I think will also help reduce the burden on families. This year, the amount of support for children's meals will continue to increase, which is more than HUF 108 billion. This is 73 billion HUF more than in 2010. We hitchhiked interest on residential mortgages. As a result, 350 thousand families have a total of 140 billion HUF of support. From 1 January 2023, the maximum gross amount of the childcare fee increased to HUF 324 800. What we want to do is help the financial situation in every family where there are children. Compared to the historical low point in 2011, fertility has increased by 22 percent in Hungary, so I also deny what you said about fertility. If the desire to have children had remained at the low point in 2011, dear Member, then 136 thousand fewer children would have been born in Hungary in the last ten years. During the Balliberal governments, the number of births decreased by a total of 22.5 percent, while the number of children in the childbearing age barely decreased, i.e. more women gave birth to fewer children. Compared to this, under our governance, much fewer women had more children, and overall, the number of births increased by 5.6 percent compared to 2011. Moreover, this is best expressed by the development of fertility rates, which increased from 1.2 to 1.5 between 2011 and 2022, i.e. by almost 30 percent. More and more children are born in marriage, and more and more people decide to live in large families. Today, nearly three quarters and 73 percent of children come into the world from marriage. As long as you are only destroying Hungary, and in the European Union you are only politicalising because of your depraved political intentions, we are helping the Hungarian families. To do that, we ask for your support. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-03-24	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Eszter Vitalyos. Dear Parliament, Mr László Varju, Deputy Head of the DK Group, applied for an address before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-05-03-25	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Dear House, I'll make an attempt to make you understand the situation, even the Secretary of State of Rétvári [[Grumbles and interrogations from the ranks of Fidesz: Oh!]] Although no doubt I won't be friendly [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Not even because the G7 economic portal calculated on the basis of official KSH data that there is almost no basic food in Hungary today that has not doubled in the last two years, I will say it once again: double in just two years. This is the work of inflation in Orbán. In two years, you have doubled the price of trappist cheese, fat, butter or spaghetti, while, for example, half-brown bread costs 2.5 times as much as it was two years ago, and of course, you could continue the line for a long time. Today, everyone in Hungary can say at least 6-8 foods from their hips that they regularly consume, and you have doubled the price. It must be said: your government performance is inflation in Orbán, in Hungarian: you are the government of price increases. We might ask why the government of price increases does not feel what it has done to Hungarians, the Hungarian economy. We could ask why when you talk about government successes with big breasts, why don't you feel that Hungarian reality is the exact opposite of what you say, but then I will help you as promised. You do not feel this because, unlike the Hungarians' salary, your own salary has been significantly increased during this period. Orbán's salary increased by HUF 2 million when the last increase was made, while the salaries of ministers and State Secretarys were increased by HUF 700 thousand, not by HUF 200, but by HUF 700 thousand. So it's very easy to pretend everything's okay in this country. If they hadn't given themselves a raise of 700 thousand forints, but of Hungarians, they wouldn't have noticed that everything was double-expanded, but unfortunately it didn't. You saved your own skin, raised your own salary, and abandoned the Hungarians with inflation in Orbán and price increases. You will benefit from the million-dollar salaries, the government will benefit, because the state has huge VAT revenues from doubling food prices, and of course, the Fidesz oligarchs, who have bought up countless food businesses in recent years, will also benefit from an increase in the price of food. [[10.10]] I've got it all figured out. In fact, everyone benefits, only the Hungarians and the people do not benefit, because they pay the joint bill. You have an increased salary, the state has a very high VAT income, the oligarchs have an extra profit from what we Hungarians pay in stores at the cash register. That is why we say that inflation in Orbán is actually the price of the Orbán system. Not food has become more valuable, not the world market price for sour cream has approached the price of gold, but the Orbán system has become more expensive and more expensive and sustainable, if you think it is sustainable, because the Hungarians certainly do not view it as such, even though it is paid for when shopping. Despite the livelihood crisis, you don't deal with people's problems. No raises, no raises, no tax cuts, nothing to ease everyday drama, nothing to make up for the family's run out of reserves. We have airport, Vodafone buy-in, impossible contract for MOL waste, highway concession, and a small presidential grace, released Molotov cocktails and domestic bombings, far-right terrorists, because these are important matters for you. As long as you're busy with these matters, you should know that Klara Dobrev is doing the work a responsible government has to do today. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Robert Répássy: Where is he? Lajos Kósa: I ask for it. The president's ringing the bell.]] The shadow government has compiled a 13-point anti-inflationary package in order to break down inflation in Orbán. This includes the temporary abolition of VAT on basic foods, the introduction of a minimum wage already waged by Klára Dobrev in the EU, and I could continue. [[Eszter Vitalos: We know your methods!]] All of this would be done by a government that works for people. However, you abandoned the Hungarians with inflation in Orbán. Do you understand why people think that the shadow government is the only hope of Hungarians to put the livelihood crisis behind us? [[Eszter Vitalos: Who thinks that? Let's not joke. Nacsa Lawrence: Chillebérc.]] Mr President, thank you for your patience. [[Applause from the opposition parties.]]
u2023-05-03-26	Thank you very much, Congressman László Varju. Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, will respond to the speech before the agenda.
u2023-05-03-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The possibility of a political player or his party and the work he can do in Hungarian public life are always decided by the electorate, and the voters have decided that Klára Dobrev's party will be forced into opposition not for the first time, many times. So this shadow government is in the shadows because the Hungarians didn't want them to govern. I ask you to consider their will. As far as his comments on inflation are concerned, I understand he used the term "Orbán inflation" as I understand it. Help me when you have never seen me in the Baltic States, Western Europe and Europe as a whole [[László Varju: Third! Dr. Tamás Mellar: Half!]] inflation, which has not been seen since the 1970s, has plagued families, and is also inflation in Orbán. Or it is simply that they are trying to give a misleading explanation for a phenomenon that is caused by war, and that is not enough, because the war and the faulty decisions made by Brussels. We have talked about this several times, but if they continue to communicate misleadingly, we will continue to say that the fact that Russian energy sources are being pushed out of the European market alone leads to price increases. President Macron says he can get gas for France at four times the price. If energy prices are persistently high, it will also be included in the price of all commodities, food prices, especially if food is produced in an energy intensive manner, and for example, the production of fertilizers requires a great deal of gas. Therefore, if energy sanctions persist, it will bring sustained inflation to Europe as a whole. It is no coincidence that we have been trying to raise our voice against such measures for a year and we are trying to change direction in Brussels policy. You know very well that only for Hungary, this year alone, sanctions represent a reduction in the margin of 4000 billion. [[László Varju: Because such a contract has been concluded!]] Because the country's energy bill has increased so much, what companies, the Hungarian families, have to stand somehow. And you deny it, but not only deny it, but when it comes to the agenda, you support these measures, not regardless of whether they receive their funding from abroad. What the government does is not little. We introduced food price-stops, which you said were stupid, we put in a interest-rate stop, which protects Hungarian families, so that when there was a foreign exchange loan crisis here in the country when you were on the government, there were no interest-stops, there were increasing payments and hundreds of thousands of families in debt traps. You could say that there was no wage increase, while it was this government that increased the minimum wage by more than three times, while at your time it was only twenty or a few thousand forints. He also said, "I'm sorry, I have to say, he lied that there was no pension increase, while there was a pension increase, in January, we gave back the 13th month's pension, there was a pension premium, and there was a pension supplement. [[László Varju: And they still owe the pensioners!]] You can't report on such measures. I could continue the line. I'd like to respond to one more thing, even if you've said so much untruth. A few days ago, your shadow chancellor, his minister, raised to the level of an official resolution what they had done before, mostly behind the scenes, confessing that they were working to prevent Hungary from receiving the EU funds that would otherwise be due to him. He said it was a patriotic duty. It is difficult to find words for this, but even before we can find unsearched words, let us add that Csaba Molnár is not alone in this endeavour, because your party president openly talked about that they were there when they set conditions against Hungary that cannot be met. Anna Donáth also writes a letter on behalf of the Momentum to the European Commission asking them to review the payment of the money due to Hungary. So that's the Momentum's position, and practically all the left-wing parties. Honourable Congressman, We have adopted 17 amendments to the law, a technical agreement has been reached on judicial laws, and the agreement is outlined in what does the left do? It will bring the campaign for blocking EU funds to a higher level. They don't even pay attention to appearances anymore. It's hard to find words for this, but we'd find them soon enough, and I'm sure you'd like to get a rating for yourselves, but under these circumstances, you can't ask for it, because the thing is, there's no harsh sign that would be excessive to qualify for what the left is doing. I could also say that the sky is blue, the dollar is green, and the left is still working against his own country. [[László Varju: He stole this from me!]] The answer will come from the electorate again, be sure of that. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-03-28	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Dear Parliament, István Simicskó, head of the KDNP faction, applied to the speech entitled "The Pope's Visit" before the agenda.
u2023-05-03-29	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Pope Francis made an apostolic visit to Hungary at the end of the last week. The Catholic head of church visited our country for the second time in two years. Thank you so much for that. And speaking of thanks, may I also thank everyone who has interposed with the Pope's Holiness to visit Hungary once more and successfully, on behalf of the KDNP faction, all these events should be settled, so that the Pope can meet as many believers as possible. Thank you, of course, to Cardinal, government agencies, organizers, volunteers and police officers, TEK and civil security organisations for the safety and security of events. The eyes of our Christian civilization spent three days in Hungary. The power of our faith must have been seen by the whole world. Ladies and gentlemen, the true mission of the Holy Father has also been shown in Hungary, in proclaiming the love and infinite love of the Good God, and, of course, in his standing for peace, in emphasising the importance of this. He met Christian believers, young people, sick children, poor people, refugees from Ukraine, and apparently the clergy leaders, the priests, church and public leaders were also met by the Pope's Holiness. At each location, he drew attention to the importance of love and peace. He showed the way everywhere, so he not only recognized the problems of our day, but also offered adequate answers and solutions. [[10.20]] Young people were reminded not only to live their lives in the virtual world but also to live their human mission and service in reality. Ladies and gentlemen, He spoke several times against the war, and it was a great pleasure for me that after the St. Stephen's Basilica he also visited the Roses Square and came to the Greek Catholic Church. He blessed the Greek Catholic believers, where Archbishop-metropolitan Father Philip greeted him and emphasized that Greek Catholicism is also the bridge to the Christian civilizations of the East and West, so it links the two Christianitys, the East and the West, Orthodoxy with the Roman Catholic Church. As did II. Pope John Paul used to say that Christianity can regain strength and strength when it breathes with both lungs, with the universality of Western Christianity and the spiritual charge of the Orthodox world for Christian people. It strengthened our faith, our hope, our soul, and our love. He also drew attention to the phenomena of resolving problems, such as European unity, and he rightly said that unity is important, of course, but we need a European unity in such a way that no one's uniqueness is impaired. So European integration must not be about giving up our national self-determination, our language, our culture, our values. Ladies and gentlemen, The Holy Father and the Government both agreed and were committed to the idea that Christianity was an essential element in the renewal of nations. In fact, he also agreed and praised the Hungarian Fundamental Law, since in Hungary Christianity has a nation-sustaining power, as the Fundamental Law very wisely states. Ladies and gentlemen, The Holy Father is on the side of peace, he has repeatedly explained this, and he said that there is no way to win peace with weapons, only through negotiation, which also confirms the Hungarian government's position in the form of an immediate ceasefire and peace talks, as we have stressed since the war started. He called for a new European policy, which I think we all want very much, and we would like to see European politics change, and he considers it important to have a spiritual existence, which, by the way, is our Christian civilization, which has been neglected in recent decades. We need peace, a future filled with cradles and not graves, said the Holy Father; and here, too, he clearly stood up for peace, confirming that this is indeed the only way to go. It was a touching and lifelong experience to see and hear the wise thoughts of the Holy Father. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-03-30	Thank you very much, Mr. István Simicskó Group Leader. State Secretary Miklós Soltész will answer on behalf of the government.
u2023-05-03-31	Dear Parliament, Mr President, Mr. Team Leader! Indeed, a great deal of work has been done by all those who have been organizing help, since they had only two months. Here, too, I would like to highlight, exceptionally, two people personally: Mr Zoltán Kovács, State Secretary, and Father Tamás Tóth, who have done incredible work with their colleagues in both physical and spiritual terms. But I would also like to thank the staff of the National Assembly, the law enforcement and defence agencies, health professionals, construction workers, alpinists, masters, the media staff, but all those who have had difficulties with traffic restrictions that are forced but necessary. Thanks to believers, Godseekers, and young people who may have experienced this festival, fatigue for much work, hardship, patience; it was compensation and confirmation of the gestures, messages, and three-day joys of the Holy Father. We had the opportunity to meet Gesthians at each meeting, the children who greeted him, in their math costumes, with their love for him. The greetings of Father Michael, who was in a wheelchair, amputated, were fantastic; the blessing of wheelchairs, refugees and disabled people, whether in the Roses area or in the László Arena Papp or in the Institute of the Blind. Special attention is paid to the brother of János Brenner, who was brutally murdered by Communists, who greeted the Holy Father. With the young ones, the witnesses, the loving encouragement and the answers. To hug little babies and bless their parents. With gypsy sandwich musicians, it's fun. Messages are strong, important for the protection of families. Ideological colonialism was mentioned by the Holy Father, gender culture, or meaningless abortions, but peace, war infantilism came to mind, through the following quotes: "Support the future of hope for the next generations, not war, a future full of cradles and not graves." And today, it looks like we're gonna have to watch soloists of the war break through while the peace singers disappear. Dear Chief of Staff, A holiday is always nice, but unfortunately, there are always people who want to ruin it. This was also the case a year and a half ago at the Eucharistic Congress, and there were those who had already said such things, thinking of the visit of the Holy Father that proved to be unreal. Think of the words of the church attacking, lumbering, educating voices that accompanied the path of the Holy Father and his history. They'll put Orbán on the edge of the carpet, of course, and he doesn't even want to meet her. From Momentum to DK, the croakers, from Gelencsér, who would abolish the teaching of faith, to Gyurcsány, who said that we would teach the priests the Scriptures. And their always authentic media was involved in everything. After the Eucharistic Congress, the New York Times spoke of Pope's visit to Bucharest instead of Budapest, and now it was fading that we didn't get out enough. A liberal Austrian newspaper would hold an Orbán mirror, an idiot who couldn't be called a journalist would discuss that the pope didn't believe, because he was too educated to do so. Of course, with that logic, he must be a believer himself, for he is so dark. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, The majority will have the holiday, the lived and the beautiful memories, the social message of the Holy Father and his encouragements. Protect the children, the families, support the refugees in Ukraine and help those in distress, strengthen the voice of the choir of peace, help his mission of the Holy Father, which is the most important thing in the world that he has done so, with this prayer:. And from here, from this great city and from this noble country, I would like to leave to his heart the faith and the future of the European continent, to which I have thought a great deal of these days, especially the cause of peace. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-03-32	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Miklós Soltész. Lajos Kósa, Deputy Head of the Fidesz Group, has also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-05-03-33	Mr. President. Dear House, I would like to talk about a fake fidesz problem, if you remember it, if you remember it, the left gave us this immortal bonmot, perhaps just Vadai... no, Ágnes Kunhalmi. Agnes Kunhalmi! [[Intruder from DK's ranks: Tweety!]] Ágnes Kunhalmi said in 2015 that migration is a fidesz pseudo-problem, there is no need to deal with it. And, well, this fake problem developed that last week there was a shooting in the Horgos, a proper firefight, where three migrants wounded a fourth, by the way. We know from the data of the Serbian police that in recent years 25 firearms have been collected from migrants, increasingly violent, there was also a shooting at the border last November, and, well, we also see that the Ukrainian war is covering up migration problems a little bit, but migration is one of the most serious threats that threaten Europe and our country. [[10.30]] The position of the Hungarian Government and Parliament is quite clear, the majority position of Parliament, represented by the Fidesz-KDNP: migration is a harmful thing, a dangerous thing, a fundamental threat to the interests of the European Union, and it must therefore be stopped; it must not help, it must not open the gates, it must be stopped. Unfortunately, the European Parliament's recently adopted Pact on Migration and Asylum takes the issue of migration in a completely wrong direction. In this sense, of course, it is consistent, because this position has always been taken, at least the majority there, namely, we accept the illegal border crossing, in fact help, that is actually what Frontex is doing, and quite simply the incoming illegal and uncontrolled migrants are divided between Member States in some kind of quota system. Hungary has opposed this before, and we also know that it has no results since then. It does nothing to help migrants, host countries, sending countries, only to spread the problem, which, by the way, causes problems in the whole of the European Union that would not arise without migration. A group of conservative and right-wing representatives of the European Parliament has set up a migration task force which points out these problems. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] We are curious to see developments regarding the fact that the majority of the European Parliament is willing to even notice the facts or the obvious truths that the working group has shown and presented. The non-functioning solutions imposed by Brussels, which have reappeared in the European Parliament's pact, are dangerous because many times we have stressed: migration can be made once; it is possible to make a mistake once, and if we fail, we will have quite different problems. Take a look at the countries where no-go, now not even parts of the city, parts of the country, where the local authorities do not dare to enter, where local laws do not apply, and from which local people, who originally reside there, are completely pushed out so that otherwise crime, drugs, and others are not to talk about the violent crimes they committed. Therefore, we are most strongly in favour of the fact that the only right attitude is to protect Hungary, to protect the Schengen borders, to protect Europe from this wave of migration. And if we listen closely, more and more people will realize that this is the only way to go. We wish Manfred Weber good morning from here, who was just talking about setting up fences in the final case. It is a pity that the recognition of the HUF 650 billion spent by the Hungarian state on fences and border protection is still waiting for you, but we hope. It's the only way to get help where the problem is, not bring the problem here. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-05-03-34	Thank you very much, Congressman Lajos Kósa. On behalf of the government, Bence Rétvári will respond. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2023-05-03-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Members, Dear House, Everyone in the world who does not close their eyes can see that Hungary is helping those who are really fleeing a war. At our eastern border, the Hungarian border is completely open to refugees from the direction of Ukraine, we have welcomed everyone, we have provided help to everyone who has asked for help and has received such help. There have been millions of refugees coming to Hungary either directly through the Ukrainian border or through Ukraine, but through Romania. To them, we have provided security to a million people, we have helped them, and Hungary is now providing for tens of thousands of people. It is not the same at our southern border, where there are crowds of illegal migrants arriving, who come to Europe, the European Union, not in compliance with the law, but in fleeing a direct war situation, but because of welfare benefits. Last year we stopped 270 thousand of these illegal cross-border attempts at the Hungarian southern border, and this year there were more than 40,000 attempts to cross the Hungarian southern border, but at the Hungarian southern border border border border guards or border hunters and police officers stopped them. They act very aggressively, this year nine attacks on border guards, 68 attacks on vehicles [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] In 28 cases, they tried to damage the fence, the safety barrier. Honourable Members, Dear House, For the underworld, illegal migration is a huge business, a huge revenue. Those who have previously dealt with other crimes, arms smuggling, drug smuggling, are a very high source of income for illegal migration. We know from the reports of illegal migrants what funds are being paid to transport them from one country to another. If someone from Greece wants to go to Serbia, he will pay 1.1 million forints. A Turkey-Serbia smuggler-work fee of 2.2 million forints. If someone from Turkey, where people are most likely to meet smugglers, wants to get to Austria, it costs HUF 3.5 million. If someone wants to get through our neighbors and us, so they want to get from Serbia to Austria, the smugglers are asking for 1.1 million forints. In the event that someone wants to take the full route from a smuggler, so they leave Turkey and want to arrive in Germany, the exchange rate is 5.2 million forints for one person. And think, ladies and gentlemen, that in these vans there are 10-20 people, and each man has paid this multimillion-dollar, up to 5 million-forint fee to smugglers, what a revenue this is for the underworld. From these millions of forints, they sometimes even provide accommodation and a change of clothes. The established system of funding, the so-called hawala system, has been established, which means transfer in Arabic. This is a kind of secured financial deposit, a form of transfer outside the bank, in which, at the starting point, someone deposits the amount to which he has paid to the smuggler, and when he arrives, he returns at the destination, and receives this amount through the hawala system, and then smugglers to the drivers, other contributors, transmit a fraction of this amount to the contributors through Western Union or other financial sending methods. So it's a very well-established system for the underworld, organised crime, with a huge income. This is the system that the European Union continues to maintain; not only will it tolerate it, but, for example, by proposing the Pact, it also wants to encourage the underworld, human smugglers, to put in their pocket millions of dollars per person. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] This has already been unacceptable to many countries, which is why in February this year in Athens we met 15 EU Member States, Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Greece, Latvia, Lithuania, Hungary, Malta, Poland, Romania and Slovakia; and we have made it clear that what the Commission is doing today is unacceptable. I would like to read to you the final statement of this meeting. He said 15 EU Member States, unlike the Commission, called on the European Commission to provide adequate financial support to the frontline Member States for all types of border infrastructure, including physical barriers. 15 Member States have demanded effective border protection from the European Union, Brussels, 15 Member States have demanded that the Union contribute to the costs of border protection, but the EU's ears remain deaf to those words, and they continue to force the Pact and migration. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-05-03-36	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work with the decisions, I will hand over the chair of the meeting to my Vice-President János Latorcai. (Sunning: 10.39 10.44 President: Dr. János Latorcai Note: Dr. István Tiba and Dániel Z. Carpathian)
u2023-05-03-37	I would like to welcome my fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I would also ask my fellow pro-government Members to take their seats. We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. Please check that your card has been properly placed in the voting machine. In today's decisions, we will also decide on the adoption of a proposal requiring a qualified majority. I would like to draw your attention to the decision-making rule of 50. § 3, if Parliament does not adopt a provision requiring a qualified majority in the final vote of the bill, this also extends without a further separate decision to the omission of the provision referring to the fundamentality of the unaccepted regulation. In this case, the final vote by a simple majority shall take place on the text of the proposal thus amended. Dear House, Fellow Members! It follows the T/3519 on the announcement of the Convention between the Government of Hungary and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/3519. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 179 votes in favour, no votes against and 11 abstentions. The Act of the Universal Postal Association, adopted on 25 October 2022 by the President of the Republic for consideration, is the Statute of the Ninth, Tenth and Tenth Pót Protocol, the Amendment and Final Protocol to the Universal Postal Convention of the Universal Postal Association signed at the 2012 Doha Convention, the Amendment and Final Protocol to the 2016 Istanbul Convention, the Amendment and Final Protocol, the Amendment signed at the 2018 Addis Ababa Congress, the Final Protocol, the Consolidated text and the Second Supplementary Protocol to the Universal Postal Union signed at the 2019 Geneva Convention, and the Amendment and the Final Protocol to the Act on the Publication of the Final Protocol signed at the 2021 Abidjan Convention. Text of the Act sent to the President of the Republic for signature T/1306/8. Letter from the President of the Republic sent back for consideration T/1306.9. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. T/1306/11. and T/1306/12. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with the provisions of the House Rules, there is no possibility to maintain a proposal amending the decision and to request a separate vote. We are now deciding on an amendment to the Legislative Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/1306/11. Amendment No 3 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment by 185 votes in favour, no votes against, with 5 abstentions. The final vote now follows, in which we decide on the text of the law which has not been announced, as amended by the amendment proposal of the Legislative Committee. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the Charter of the Universal Postal Union of the Ninth, Tenth and Tenth Pót Protocol, the amendment and the Final Protocol of the Universal Postal Convention of the Universal Postal Union signed at the 2012 Doha Convention, the amendment and the Final Protocol of the 2016 Congress in Istanbul, the amendment and the Final Protocol of the 2018 Addis Ababa Convention, the consolidated text and the Second Additional Protocol of the 2019 Congress in Geneva, and the non-published Act on the announcement of the Final Protocol signed at the 2021 Abidjan Congress. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment, which did not declare the law by 185 votes in favour, without voting against, with five abstentions. [[10.50]] It follows in line with the T/3087 on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Hungarian People's Republic and the Government of the Socialist Republic of the Czechoslovak Republic, signed on 24 November 1986, between the Government of the Hungarian People's Republic and the Government of the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/3087/5 of the Legislative Committee's proposal for a summary amendment and T/3087/6 of its report. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/3087/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 189 votes to none, with one abstention. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3087/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 188 votes in favour, no votes against, with one abstention. It follows from the 2011 CCIX on water utility services. T/3526. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The summation of the Legislative Committee's proposal for amendment T/3526/8 and its summary report T/3526/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 3 and 4. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Zsolt Molnár and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 60 votes in favour, 129 votes against and 1 abstention. Amendment 4 is also proposed by Zsolt Molnár and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 130 votes against and 2 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/3526/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 132 votes in favour, 41 votes against and 17 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3526/11. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 132 votes in favour, 43 votes against and 15 abstentions. T/3517 on the amendment of the laws necessary for a more accessible consumer protection. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/3517/6. T/3517/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/3517/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 149 votes in favour, 24 votes against and 17 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3517/8. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 150 votes in favour, 23 votes against and 17 abstentions. Following up on P/3825, P/3825, "Rejecting migration and supporting the issuing countries locally." Final vote on the proposal for a political declaration No 1. As no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the political statement submitted. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that more than half of the Members of Parliament have to vote in favour of the adoption of the political declaration. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept P/3825. Political Declaration No 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the political statement by 143 votes to 143, 10 votes against and 23 abstentions. It follows that T/3315 on the legal relationship with the Hungarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the second half of 2024 and on certain related provisions will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/3315/4. T/3315/5 and T/3315/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of point 44 of this Regulation, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on a point requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3315/4. Point requiring a qualified majority of the amending proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points of the summary amendment which required a qualified majority by 136 votes in favour, 40 votes against and 7 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3315/4. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment by 134 votes in favour, 40 votes against and 6 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3315/6. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 136 votes in favour, 40 votes against and 6 abstentions. [[11.00]] We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3315/6. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 136 votes in favour, 4 votes against and 7 abstentions. Next up is T/3314 on cybersecurity certification and cybersecurity surveillance. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/3314/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is required for the adoption of points 68, 69, 70 and 72, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the points that require a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3314/5. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 139 votes in favour, 40 votes against and 11 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3314/5. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment by 139 votes in favour, 40 votes against and 11 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3314/7. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 139 votes in favour, 40 votes against and 11 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3314/7. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 139 votes in favour, 40 votes against and 11 abstentions. It follows that the T/3520 on the free ownership of certain state-owned assets will follow. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the bill requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/3520. The provisions of bill No 1 requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the bill requiring a qualified majority by 159 votes in favour, 18 votes against and 12 abstentions. We now decide on the provisions of the bill that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/3520. The provisions of bill No 1 which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the bill requiring a simple majority by 158 votes in favour, 19 votes against and 12 abstentions. Next up is T/3512 on the amendment of certain health, health and pharmaceutical laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/3512/4 of the Legislative Committee's proposal for a comprehensive amendment and T/3512/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 45, 48, 51, 54, 56, 59, 63 to 68 and 69 thereof, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the points that require a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3512/4. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 132 votes in favour, 41 votes against and 16 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3512/4. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment by 131 votes in favour, 40 votes against and 17 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3512/6. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 132 votes in favour, 47 votes against and 11 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3512/6. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 131 votes in favour, 47 votes against and 10 abstentions. Dear House, The XLII of 2022 on the elimination and management of the consequences of armed conflict and humanitarian disaster in Hungary will follow. T/3518. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/3518/5, and T/3518/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the House Rule is 48. Under paragraph 2 of Section T/3518/5. A separate vote was initiated on point 4 of the summary amendment proposal. First, we will decide on the part of the summary amendment that requires a qualified majority, then on the point requested for a separate vote, and then we will decide on the further points of the summarised amendment proposal. [[11.10]] We are now deciding on points 2 and 3 of the summarised amendment proposal requiring a qualified majority. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of these will require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3518/5. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 132 votes in favour, 52 votes against and 6 abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 4 of the summary amendment, which requires a simple majority, to be put to a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3518/5. Point 4 of the amendment, which requires a simple majority, asked for a separate vote. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the point requested for a separate vote in the summary amendment by 132 votes to 57, with one abstention. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3518/5. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment which require a simple majority by 132 votes in favour, 58 votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3518/7. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 132 votes in favour, 58 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3518/7. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 131 votes in favour, 58 votes against and no abstentions. It follows, in order to reach agreement with the European Commission, that T/3131 on the amendment of the rules relating to declarations of assets should be adopted. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/3131/5 of the Legislative Committee's proposal for a summary amendment and T/3131/6 of its report. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is required for the adoption of points 21 to 24, 27 to 53, 55, 59 to 62, 64 to 67 and 69 and 70, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the points that require a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/311/5. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 149 votes in favour, 6 votes against and 17 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/311/5. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment by 152 votes in favour, 5 votes against and 17 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/311/7. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 151 votes in favour, no votes against, 23 abstentions and accepted it. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/311/7. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 152 votes in favour, no votes against, with 22 abstentions. T/3514 on the amendment of individual laws in connection with the development of public administration. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/3514/6. T/3514/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the Jobbik Group proposed that amendments No 2 and 3 be maintained. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Róbert Dudás and György László Lukács. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 59 votes in favour, 129 votes against and 1 abstention. Amendment 3 is also proposed by Mr Róbert Dudás and Mr György Lukács. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 130 votes against and 2 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/3514/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 132 votes in favour, 17 votes against and 41 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3514/9. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 132 votes in favour, 17 votes against and 41 abstentions. [[11.20]] We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3514/9. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 132 votes in favour, 17 votes against and 41 abstentions. Next up is T/3515 on the amendment of certain laws on foreign affairs. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The legislative committee's summary proposal for amendment T/3515/4 and its summary report T/3515/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/3515/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 130 votes in favour, 34 votes against and 24 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3515/6. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 131 votes in favour, 37 votes against and 20 abstentions. Next up is the XXXIII of 2016 on the state project evaluation relationship and the amendment of certain related laws. Act and Act CXXV of 2018 on Government Administration T/3516. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The legislative committee's summary proposal for amendment T/3516/4 and its summary report T/3516/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/3516/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 148 votes in favour, 18 votes against and 23 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3516/6. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 148 votes in favour, 17 votes against and 23 abstentions. Next up is the 2015 CXLIII on public procurement. T/3513. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/3513/4, and T/3513/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/3513/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 129 votes in favour, 40 votes against and 16 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3513/6. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament is T/3513/6. The single proposal was adopted by 130 votes in favour, 41 votes against and 17 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is up to you to discuss and decide on the immunity case. I would like to inform you that a motion to suspend the immunity of our fellow Members of Parliament, János Pócs, was received on 18 April 2023 1.Bpk.211/2022/5. I'm the judge of the District Court of Tiszafüred in a private charge of defamation and defamation of defamation. This was handed over to the immunity committee under presidential authority for consideration. The immunity committee shall be H/3837. Mr János Pócs presented a proposal for a resolution on his immunity. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I will give the floor to János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Mr. President. You have the floor.
u2023-05-03-38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In the transcript of the District Court in Tiszafüred, Parliament is motioned to suspend Mr János Pócs' immunity for defamation and defamation of defamation. I would like to make an attempt to present the following main facts from the document. The local government is Jászberény co-operative for the implementation of a Malom Conference and Event Centre. The contractor transferred some more than 287 million forints as an advance, which the contractor would only have had to account for when submitting the last sub-account. So far, this is not going to happen, because this investment is failing, so the managing authority has reclaimed HUF 800 million from the city. On 15 June 2022, Mr János Pócs said the following at the board meeting: the most important sentence, addressed to the deputy mayor and mayor, is that this 300 million HUF has been abducted from the pockets of Jászberény taxpayers and handed over to an entrepreneur. Now, this is gonna be a private launch, and based on the private launch, we're gonna get a court-martial transcript here. Obviously, I suggested to the Committee on immunity, as always in such cases, and this is what the Committee on immunity proposes to the Parliament we have made our decision in a ratio of 4:1, so our motion is that in this private initiative, Mr János Pócs's immunity should not be suspended by Parliament. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-03-39	Thank you very much, Congressman, Mr President. I will ask Mr János Pócs if he wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I would remind you that the committee has taken a position that the Member's immunity will not be suspended by the Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of János Pócs. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not suspend the immunity of János Pócs by 38 votes in favour, 136 votes against and three abstentions. Dear Parliament, According to our agreed agenda, now on Monday's meeting [[Dr. Agnes Vadai:]] decisions will be taken to accept the responses to the interpellations made. Balázs Barkóczi, representative of DK, I/3746. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 117 votes in favour, 57 votes against and one abstention. Imre Komjathi, representative of MSZP, I/3763. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 120 votes in favour, 56 votes against and one abstention. [[11.30]] Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, I/3764. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 120 votes in favour, 57 votes against and one abstention. Congressman Bence Tordai, representative of the Dialogue, I/3770. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 121 votes to 121, 57 against and one abstention. Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Member of the LMP, I/3752. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 120 votes in favour, 56 votes against and one abstention. Lot. Ms Erzsébet Németh, representative of DK, I/3747. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 121 votes in favour, 56 votes against and one abstention. Congressman Róbert Dudás, representative of Jobbik, I/3732. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 119 votes in favour, 57 votes against and one abstention. Congressman Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, I/3486. No response was accepted. I'll ask the National Assembly, you'll accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 119 votes in favour, 57 votes against and one abstention. Dear House, It follows in line with the 11/2022 on the establishment of committees, the election of members and officials of the Parliament. [[V. 2.]] A decision to amend a decision. S/3848 submitted by the President You can find out more about this on the website. I would like to ask Mr István Tiba to present the content of the personal proposal put forward by the President. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2023-05-03-40	, 1. 11/2022 on the establishment of committees, election of members and officials of the Parliament [[V. 2.]] OGY Decision [[hereinafter referred to as "OGY Decision']] Point 2 is amended as follows: The National Assembly elects Dr. István Bajkai, Fidesz, János Süli, member of the Committee. 2. Point 4 of the OGY Decision is amended as follows: Parliament elects Mr.Lőrinc Nacsa, Lőrinc KDNP, instead of Dr. Lajos Mészáros, Mr. Fidesz, Dr. István Bajkai, Fidesz, Vice-President of the Committee. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. I'm sorry, I'm sorry,
u2023-05-03-41	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, First, on the basis of points 1 and 3 of the proposal, we decide on the election of the member of the committee, and then, according to point 2 of the proposal, we decide on the Commission's officials from among the members of the committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament that S/3848. In accordance with the proposal No.1, by adopting points 1 and 3, he elects János Süli to be a member of the Legislative Committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament elected János Süli as member of the Legislative Committee with 175 votes in favour, no votes against, with one abstention. I ask the Honourable Parliament that S/3848. According to point 2 of the proposal No.2, Lajos Mészáros is elected Vice-President of the Committee on Welfare from among the members of the Committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament Lajos Mészáros, Vice-President of the Committee on Welfare, with 174 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. [[Result shown on the board: 1 stay.]] You've elected him. I ask the Honourable Parliament that S/3848. According to point 2 of the proposal No.2, János Süli is elected Vice-President of the Committee on Legislative Affairs from among the members of the Committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament elected János Süli to the Vice-President of the Legislative Committee with 175 votes in favour, no votes against, with one abstention. I wish the elected officials good luck and results in their work. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions. We're taking a two-minute technical break. (Sunning: 11.36 11.39 President: Dr. János Latorcai Note: Dr. István Tiba and Dániel Z. Carpathian)
u2023-05-03-42	[[Move.]] I would like to ask my fellow Members that all those who leave the Chamber now because of their urgent duties should do so quickly and quietly, as far as possible, so that the Parliament can continue its work. Those who wish to participate in the further work of the Parliament, please take their place. Thank you very much. Dear House, Fellow Members! A general discussion of the bill amending Act C of 2012 on the Criminal Code will follow until closure. [[11.40]] Máté Kocsis fideszes, János Halász fideszes, Lajos Kósa fideszes, Lőrinc Nacsa [[A moment's pause.]] Submitted by KDNP representative T/3755. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. [[To Nacsa Lőrinc:]] I did not stop, honourable Member, because I do not know which faction you are in, just because the script did not contain this. Dear House, First, I give the floor to Mr János Halász, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Congressman, your time frame is 30 minutes. You have the floor.
u2023-05-03-43	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, An important bill aimed at helping journalists to further strengthen freedom of the press and freedom of speech can be discussed today. Civil democracy cannot exist without free press. The Hungarian people know that, and my generation, who lived in communism, was already an adult at the time of the change of regime. After the communist years, where the system was characterised by strong censorship, the issue of freedom of the press and freedom of speech was particularly important. Of course, it didn't go overnight to create laws on the operation of the media. We can remember that, in the course of the system change, there were perhaps the most intense debates about the operation of the press and the regulation of public media, but later on, the House and the Committee on Culture and Press discussed a number of legislative proposals concerning the media law, of which I was vice-president between 2002-10. The protection of freedom of the press is also an important part of our Fundamental Law adopted in 2011. Article IX of the Fundamental Law Article 2 (2) states that Hungary recognises and protects the freedom and diversity of the press and ensures the conditions for free information necessary for the development of democratic public opinion. Dear House, For the first time in Hungary during the revolution of 1848-49, young people in March demanded free press. Today, 175 years later, fortunately, civil freedom of the press is natural for all of us. The Hungarian media market is diverse and plural. Compared to the rest of the European Union, we have nothing to be ashamed of. However, there is an area of legislation on journalistic work where further progress can be made: it is the criminal case of defamation and defamation, which, as we have been told, can be used as a staff in its present form. As a result, journalists often have to practice self-censorship or undertake many years of hard criminal proceedings. Dear House, The Foundation for Transparent Journalism has contacted the Fidesz fraction, and I note that the other parliamentary factions, and has proposed amendments to the criminal law book before us. The journalist organisation has indicated that the problem caused by the current regulation is universal, independent of political sides. Some examples have been given in recent years. The journalist, who had worked at the Index, now 24.hu, has been restricted for years by a criminal prosecution against him. The ex-chief editor of the Index was also charged and even convicted of defamation and then defamation. One of the employees of 444.hu has already been prosecuted, and he has been convicted of defamation. The Pesti Guys have been prosecuted against a number of employees. Angéla Füssy, an investigative journalist and the former Deputy Editor-in-Chief of the paper have already been convicted of defamation. We can recall that Szarvas New Year's Eve's photo was posted on the police website after an arrest warrant was issued for not appearing at the trial for slander. Dear House, The examples given illustrate the need to change regulation. The amendment of the Criminal Code is about protecting freedom of speech and freedom of the press, adapted to Western examples. The proposal of the journalistic organisation has been considered and proposed for adoption, because it serves the smooth conduct of journalistic work and protects journalists. The Constitutional Court was established in 1992 at 30/1992. It also argued in its decision that the need for a declaration of conduct to be punishable should be measured by a strict standard. In order to protect the different living conditions, moral and legal standards, criminal law instruments which necessarily restrict human rights and freedoms should only be used to the extent strictly necessary and proportionate if it is not possible to safeguard the constitutional or constitutional objectives and values of the state, society and economy in any other way. Later, the Constitutional Court stated that criminal sanctions should not be used to shape public opinion and political style. Criminal sanctions can only be applied to the protection of other rights in cases inevitably necessary. Dear House, Of course, freedom of expression still cannot be an unlimited fundamental right. The Fundamental Law states that its exercise should not be aimed at violating the human dignity of others, that fundamental rights should be limited only in the light of the criteria of proportionality and necessity, up to the objective pursued, by the least possible means. At present, however, there are a number of instruments available to operators who want to take legal compensation for alleged or real violations of their honour. In contrast to false facts capable of defaming honor, they may request a press correction, in the event of failure to file a civil suit. In the event of a breach of their reputation, they may bring a personal legal suit in which the victim may claim an infringement charge. As a result of the current legislation, the victim can also prosecute through a private initiative, in addition to the press trial and the personality lawsuit. These parallel regulations are an unnecessary burden for both the State and the victim. Dear House, Our proposal therefore protects freedom of expression and freedom of the press. In addition, it is in the interest of the State to consider as few acts as possible which cannot be sanctioned by a lighter instrument before criminal courts. Otherwise, the system may become overloaded and criminal proceedings may drag on, which may hinder the effective and rapid functioning of justice. Criminal law can only be regarded as a last resort, i.e. criminal proceedings can only take place if the instruments outside criminal law, such as the press trial, the personality lawsuit, are no longer capable of resolving the conflict in the particular situation at all. We see that the above three instruments, the press trial, the personality lawsuit and the first two of the criminal lawsuits, are necessary, but at the same time sufficient to effectively enforce the injured party's claims. Criminal threats are far more disproportionate than others, putting the journalist, in a sense, on the same level as common criminals. Moreover, the lengthy legal procedure does not serve the interests of the victim either, because if the defendant is eventually sentenced to a major fine, the amount will not go to the victim, but to the State. On the other hand, the victim will receive a civil damages fee. Overall, a criminal case would be unnecessary and easily triggered by effective press and civil litigation practices to deal with possible abuses. That's why we're moving for the Btk. changes to the relevant sections. Dear House, Nor is it irrelevant that we would take a step in the direction defined by the Council of Europe, with partial or complete abolition of the criminal sanctionability of acts which violate the dignity and honour of a person, as Terry Davis, then Secretary General of the Council of Europe, proposed the abolition of criminal liability for defamation as early as 2006. This has already been done in several EU countries. Dear House, In conclusion, I would like to point out once again that the amendment to the Criminal Code before us concerns the protection of speech and freedom of the press, in line with Western examples. My fellow Members and I tabled the amendment of the law on the basis of a proposal from the Foundation for Transparent Journalism. The proposal serves to ensure the smooth conduct of journalistic work and protects journalists. I ask this House to support our proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[11.50]]
u2023-05-03-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! I am now going to ask Mr Répássy Róbert, Secretary of State, to comment on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Here you are, Deputy Minister, Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2023-05-03-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, In the context of the free debate on public affairs, the bill implements decriminalisation in the case of defamation and defamation under the conditions laid down for committing by means of a press product or media service, all in the light of Article 9 of the Fundamental Law, which designates as a specific constitutional value the need to establish a democratic public opinion. The European Court of Human Rights and the Constitutional Court have also established a consistent practice of the possibility of being held accountable because of the communications made in the course of free information required for the development of democratic public opinion. The ultima ratio of criminal law in this area should be given particular attention, the sanctioning of these types of infringements will not cease in the whole legal system, and the applicants of the bill consider the free discussion of public affairs to be an important value, where it is sufficient to maintain civil and other administrative sanctions. In accordance with the requirements set out in the consistent practice of the Constitutional Court, 3328/2017, 3465/2020. and 3263/2018. AB decisions are without prejudice to the indeterminate core of human dignity by the media content provider. In view of this, the bill maintains criminal prosecution in the event that the fact or expression capable of defaming honor is a manifest and gravely abusive denial of the human dignity of the victim. The government can accept this approach, so the government supports the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-03-46	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, The main speaker's speeches will now take place within 15-15 minutes. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr László Vécsey. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-05-03-47	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, T/3755 amending Act C of 2012 on the Criminal Code The legislative proposal before us is a strengthening provision in support of freedom of the press. Launching criminal proceedings against journalists can give rise to abuses, revenge campaigns and, unfortunately, has already given us the opportunity, as we heard in the introduction by its authors. The exception of this criminal instrument is a relief for both the State and the victim. This provision is in line with the unanimous position of the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights, and with the Fundamental Law, which states that Hungary recognises and protects the freedom and diversity of the press, it provides the conditions for free information necessary for the development of democratic public opinion. This proposal is another example of democracy and freedom of the press being best placed in our country. [[Deficit in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]] In larger countries in Western Europe, freedom of the press is being attacked much more often than in Hungary. It's not us. It's the Foundation for Transparent Journalism. [[Gergely Harvester laughs.]] The report funded by the European Commission explains in detail that it is much better to be a journalist in Hungary than in Germany or France, for example. In these countries, there is a serious physical threat to the press and, moreover, to the freedom of the press several times. In the face of our country's media situation, sharp attacks are constantly taking place by ignoring the facts completely. Hungary is today significantly freer than the Western European countries, and the media relations are a clear proof of this. Ladies and gentlemen, We will therefore set another example for European countries by adopting the proposal before this House. Freedom of the press cannot be questioned in Hungary, everyone can participate in public debates according to their own beliefs and freely express their views. In view of what has been said, the Fidesz faction supports the proposal, and I ask my fellow Members, this House, to do the same. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-03-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Gergely Arató. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-05-03-49	Dear House, There is something wonderful about the fact that my Fidesz fellow Member qualifies Hungarian freedom of the press as excellent on the basis of their own-funded survey, but he who lives in this country knows what the real situation is with the public media, which acts as a fidesz propaganda mouthpiece, what is the situation with the numerous organs in KESMA, which also acts as a Fidesz mouthpiece, and the KDNP, I always forget, and what is the situation with the revolver media, the only task and the essential role of which is to lie about opposition actors and anyone who is not fidesz. By the way, this is confirmed by independent international measurements. Today, the latest report on freedom of the press was published, with Hungary 25 from 27 EU Member States, and the third from behind in terms of freedom of the press. So, what I have to tell you is that this is a very transparent charade. I can see that there are still things the Department of Justice and the government wouldn't dare take in their name or be ashamed of. There is not much, but it seems that this one proposal was not dared to be submitted in their own name; that is why it was played; someone asked for it, and then the government representatives suddenly thought, wow, what a good idea it was that this proposal should be submitted. It didn't matter before, it didn't matter before, now it's suddenly important. So we know what's going on, and what's in the background is that these people are openly telling us that some of your propagandaists in these cases, when they've obviously lied about people in a malicious manner, are under police procedure, and it's unpleasant for them, and I'd like to make sure that even this minimum protection doesn't affect those who these so-called newspapers and so-called media, these propaganda products slander in an unscrupulous, lying, humiliating way. Let us look for a moment for the professional part of the proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, You say, "Well, then, let's take out the press products." If it takes place in a press product, the free conduct of public debates requires that it is not possible to turn to the police for slander otherwise. And by the way, we're not protecting the citizen? [[An intervention from the Fidesz ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] Facebook commentators can continue to be reported to respected Fidesz Members and mayors for defamation. It is still possible to prosecute opposition representatives for defamation if something is spoken of in a local government. Civil society organisations can still be prosecuted for slander if attention is drawn to abuse. If they really wanted a solution, we should consider the whole legal institution, consider when there is room for slander and when there is no room for slander. We could start in a direction where we say that public debate cannot be criminalised, but then this protection should cover all kinds of public debate. Moreover, what is being presented now is also a rubber paragraph, because it is still considered, left in it to punish the obvious and seriously offensive way of human dignity, and, of course, your prosecution and your police will tell you what belongs here and what does not belong here. The thing is, you're doing another rubber paragraph that allows you to use justice for your own political purposes, take your own propaganda out of it, and continue to threaten others with these tools. [[Lajos Kósa: Private charge! The president's ringing the bell.]] Moreover, my fellow Members, there is another twist in this. [[12.00]] 'Cause you guys are saying that, well, there's a different kind of protection, of course, because there's a press case or a legal suit. And what happens, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to public media, the Pesti Guys? [[Lajos Kósa: 444!]] Or do you find on TV2 that you've otherwise committed such an invasion of privacy? They will condemn a few hundred thousand forints of compensation, which, by the way, will not be paid by the journalist concerned and not by the leader involved, but by the medium that you have stuffed with public money, so that you will basically pay these penalties with our money. That's why your propagandaists want us to abolish slander in these cases, because it's also about their personal responsibility. If there is no personal responsibility, then, of course, in this case, any public money is paid for by the Fidesz propaganda media, no question. In addition, I must add, and you have indicated that there is an established judicial practice in this regard. There is a confirmed case law on this issue, supported by judicial decisions on constitutional and European human rights. If I were to say, I would say, of course, this is just a thought experiment here in Parliament, that the honourable authors are cynical scoundrels who lie with Russian gas purchases dollars stuffed in their pockets from a dollar-left, then you will turn to the court against this statement, and then, in all likelihood, the court would say that this is a debate between public figures, which you should settle as a public figure. In other words, I would like to say to you once again that there is, by the way, wide-ranging judicial protection for this type of debate, public debate. Unfortunately, even in the case of false, obviously false, deliberate statements of facts, the courts do not establish an infringement or an infringement in press litigation, but decide that freedom of expression is also included. In conclusion, I can therefore say that, in itself, it is a legitimate and reasonable suggestion that the criminal case of slander should cover political, public debates. This could be debated in the case of a proposal for a comprehensive, impact assessment, tabled in an appropriate way, if there is a social debate about this, where journalists' organisations, legal experts, can express their views, and otherwise we will bring here a comprehensive regulation dealing, for example, with the question of who and in what way is responsible for manifestly false claims in personality lawsuits, where personal responsibility may be established, and I could continue to do so. Such a thoughtful reform could otherwise be discussed. But that's not what this is about. This is about your propagandaists asking you for more protection, because even the remains of the rule of law are interfering with their free libel and lies, and you are happy to do so. The fact is that we will not support this bill in this form. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2023-05-03-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-03-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Well, we always knew the left was an enemy of freedom of the press. It was also quite clear from this speech. Says Gergely Arató, who control the rag called Western Light by hand, who regularly publish unsuitable texts and ratings about us, and we are also talking about a newspaper funded from abroad, as it is also financed by the Socialist Group of the European Parliament, and so on, so I think that with such a background, such a DK media background... [[Gergely Harvesto: That's not true!]] Of course it is, Your Honour, but we will discuss this, because it is not a genre of dialogue here at the moment. [[Zoltán Vajda: I know that! I've learned that!]] At the same time, let's talk about what is important in this law, and what you are trying to deny and propaganda here, and you categorize journalists in Hungary in a negative way, who are working to provide as much information as possible on political decisions and public life events in Hungary to readers and consumers. Well, honourable Member, I'll give you an example. The Transparent cannot be accused of some kind of strong pro-government. Back in March 2013, several journalists of Átlátszó asked for this amendment, decriminalization, from the then parliament and government. The former Secretary-General of the Council of Europe has also been a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and has proposed to several Member States that decriminalisation is a good way to go, and this should be the way. So don't listen to us. Listen to the former Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, listen to the journalists of the Transparent, and so on, I could continue this list of people who have indicated or suggested on how many occasions that this direction would be good for them. What does the Hungarian Fundamental Law say about this? Annex IX is amended as follows: Article 1 (1) states that, Everyone has the right to freedom of expression. and paragraph (2) is thus: -Hungary acknowledges... -- [[Zoltán Vajda: Tell Mr. Teacher]] Paragraph 2 of the Act states that â Everyone has the right to freedom of expression. And paragraph 2 is this:. Hungary recognizes..... (Tell Mr. Zoltán Vajda: Teacher!)
u2023-05-03-52	It'll be your turn soon, but if you say it twice more, it won't happen. [[Zoltán Vajda: I'm holding back! In the spirit of freedom of speech!]]
u2023-05-03-53	We're so excited about what Congressman Vajda is going to say. So, as the Fundamental Law states, Hungary recognises and protects the freedom and diversity of the press and ensures the conditions for free information necessary for the development of democratic public opinion. Therefore, according to the Hungarian Fundamental Law, the constitutional value of free debate on public affairs, the formulation of democratic political opinion, information to the public, and the free expression of ideas expressed in the public interest is of paramount importance. Thank God, we are much better off in this area than many Western European countries, fellow Members. In many Western European countries, the media market and the press are not allowed at all as much as it is in Hungary. In many Western European countries, news such as news of violence, terrorist attacks, or censorship in Western European newspapers, which I believe pre-1990 Hungary was a feature of your friends' world, can be heard for days. But the bill before us would accordingly make a decriminalisation of the crime by means of a press product or media service. The criminal law will no longer sanction the crime by means of a press product or media service, but by the civil code. Here, the congressman mixed up private cases and talked about the prosecution. The congressman got the questions a little mixed up. There is, of course, no such thing as termination of a lawsuit and no need to ask for compensation if there is any harm in one's life. This amendment is also in line with the consistent practice of the Hungarian Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights, and does not weaken or restrict, but further strengthens expression and freedom of the press. It is not right to limit free expression by criminal law, but in the event of slander and defamation, it will continue to be possible for the victim to bring an action. The courts continue to conduct press-correction procedures or personality lawsuits, and if the journalist or the press organ has broken the legal framework, the consequences are obviously to be taken into account. Freedom of expression and freedom of journalists and press organisations is a key constitutional value, so it is unacceptable to criminalise journalists who carry out their work or to threaten them with prison. My fellow Member of the Fisherman has given many examples 24.hu, Index, Pesti Guys, and so on about cases in recent years that have drawn attention to our role here as legislators. But let's see what the Left thinks about freedom of the press, what is your image of freedom of the press? You understand the freedom of the press in a very specific way, because as long as anyone can say anything while attacking the right, mocking Christian values, abusive conservatism or questioning the will of a clear majority of Hungarian people, it does not matter to you that if someone dares criticize you, then, of course, stop immediately and how dare you. But as long as we are being abused, of course, you think it's perfectly all right, because let's give an example, András Fekete-Győr, former president and leader of the Momentum, said that he would self-indulgently list the dislikable press and ban them. I suppose that is what my fellow Member Gelencsér thinks of the press, as does this party post, and it is necessary to list the press products and organs he does not like. Quote from András Fekete-Győr: I would forbid them from their occupation for a period of time, forbid them from exercising their profession. So the interpretation of left-wing freedom of the press is that anyone who does not do so must be banned. [[12.10]] András Fekete-Győr threatened to disenfranchise journalists who had previously broken into editorials and asked for journalists because they dared to criticize him. The leader of the left, Ferenc Gyurcsány, threatened directly the journalists and intellectuals on the right. In every sense, they'll be runaways, said there won't be a trench burial, there'll be a parentheses. That's what Ferenc Gyurcsány said to the intellectuals and journalists on the right. So this is the interpretation of left-wing freedom of the press. There is no doubt that Ferenc Gyurcsány's threat was not merely an empty threat on his part, because we have very concrete practical experience of how those who dare to criticize the powerful Gyurcsa: eye-shooting, cavalry attack, sword-slapping, and so on. [[Dr. László György Lukács takes up his seat.]] Let's see what the president of Jobbik, Márton Gyöngyösi, thinks about freedom of the press. Right here is the leader of the Jobbik faction. He may be able to explain the sentences of Martin Gyöngyösi. Márton Gyöngyösi believes that freedom of the press is this way:. The Western media under Zionist influence constantly proclaims Zionist propaganda throughout the world. A quote from Márton Gyöngyösi. [[Nah, nah, nah, nah, nah, nah, nah, nah, nah, nah, nah, nah, nah, nah, nah, nah, nah, nah, nah, nah, nah, nah, nah, nah, nah, nah, nah, nah, nah, nah, nah, nah, ……]]
u2023-05-03-54	Congressman!
u2023-05-03-55	That's how Jobbik understood freedom of the press. It is also worth noting what the left-wing freedom of the press is like in Budapest today, as Gergely Christmas has been in power for the fourth year, and during this time there is no press conference at all. Imagine, István Tarlós introduced the weekly Budapest Info earlier, where journalists could ask for an unlimited period of time what was going on with our shared home, Budapest, about the issues we have here in Budapest. Imagine, Gergely Christmas had zero Budapest in four years! Once he didn't dare to stand up to the press and answer questions, once he didn't dare to answer the unpleasant questions, once he didn't dare to stand in front of the press to ask a little question about our common cause, Budapest. [[Gergely Harvesto: He's standing in front of the press! Zoltán Vajda intervenes.]] The Prime Minister recently held a press conference, where he was asked for three hours. Congressman, it's the one who regularly ejects the press so you can't ask him... [[Zoltán Vajda: Propaganda!]]
u2023-05-03-56	Congressman, that was the second one. [[Noise. Foreman Novak: That's how I counted! Interview from the left-hand side: Ask for two minutes.]]
u2023-05-03-57	I just wanted to mention that Congressman Vajda, for example, is acting in the press in a way that reserves the right to say who is who. [[Peter Cseresnyés: That's right!]] So he can tell you who does his job, who he thinks he's a journalist. This is precisely the interpretation of the freedom of the press I have been talking about. According to the left, freedom of the press is as long as they are praised, and then they cannot. Gergely Christmas and I have now come to the point where she doesn't even want to answer Telex's questions when the journalist asked about the political scandal of the century, about the HUF 4000 million rolling dollar, which has migrated to the opposition's campaign and DK's media. Let's not forget: DK's media also works with foreign money! He's getting foreign money! And the fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that this is how they try to influence the thinking of Hungarian voters, so they try to influence public policy debates and influence them abroad. Such, honourable Members, are left-wing freedom of the press: threats, bans, lists, abolition, exiles. What you're doing on this issue is a pure communist pace. Gergely Arató stood up and said that he did not want to decriminalise media freedom, journalism, despite the recommendation of the Council of Europe, despite the request of former government critic journalists. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this is an important step towards freedom of the press. In Hungary, freedom of the press is strong, and media freedom is strong. With this law, we can further strengthen it. I would, after all, suggest to you that you support what we are going to do. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-05-03-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. The historic moment has just come: the lead speaker of the MSZP Group, Mr Zoltán Vajda. Here you go.
u2023-05-03-59	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Colleagues, I have a little mixed feelings about the bill before us, and I think it's the majority of people. You have always only tightened up Btk., for decades there have not been as many prisoners in the Hungarian prisons as they do today. Yet you would ease certain crimes, and, as we have heard, you are trying to justify your decision by reason of fundamental rights. I think that, in itself, is suspicious, my fellow Members. Otherwise, our suspicions will only increase further when we see that if slander and defamation were committed by means of a press product or media service in the free debate on public affairs, it would not be punishable in the future. There is only one serious exception to this: if the perpetrator is obviously and severely abusively denying the human dignity of the person who was attacked. So what do you want Fidesz to do? To be free in the media from public figures, whether consciously, to spread lies, to spread rumors, then there will be no crime. [[Dr. Répássy Robert sneezes. Dr. László György Lukács: True!]] Now, hold on a second. A number of examples of how important justice and unbiased information are to the media of their government propaganda. I'd like to say one number, even two: in five years, you, your fidesz media, have lost nearly 400 press-remediation lawsuits, only 103 of them, so out of 400, 103 of them alone are known by the fallen Origo, such a hideous waste product. Well, in comparison, the independent media lost a tenth of that. I mean, as they say, let's say here in Parliament, the fidesz media is at war with the truth. [[Dr. Répássy Robert sneezed again.]] Secretary of State just sneezed on it, so it's true. Now it's starting to make sense why they want to take it out. from the point of view of the criminality of this. I would like to quote to you a frequent message from the members of the government. There is one quote from you:. Hungary is one of the few EU Member States where there is real pluralism in the media, ideological debates and public opinion. Contrary to Western European media, which is heavily dominated by left-wing and liberal media channels, conservative and Christian democrat views are also made public in Hungary. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches, among them: That's right!]] Before your propaganda cut that out, it was a quote from you, certainly not my thoughts. These views, once again, are communicated by their government, called national, in various ways by their powerful media. Let's talk about TV2, and I wouldn't rate it again, supposedly, because this is the one that regularly receives billions of messages from their government called national. Well, dear colleagues, I'm not a lawyer myself, but I usually manage to follow the law without legal knowledge. This, let's say, TV2 doesn't do it on a regular basis. As a result, TV2's lawyers regularly go to court, and they must appear as defendants in court where they lose order. So, as I said, I'm not a lawyer, so I can't define the role and responsibility of the court, but as a layman, I understand that in the rule of law, it's customary to take court judgments seriously and obey them. I hope we agree on that, Mr. Secretary, don't we? However, TV2, your TV2, does not regularly execute court judgments. If the plaintiffs, say, ask for the help of an executive, then the TV2 media group cynically pays the maximum rate, do you know how much? Half a million in fines, good day. Due to the slowness of the implementation process, you can impose on them two or three times a year this ridiculously low, I repeat, half a million enforcement fines, which is a ridiculous sum compared to TV2's 50 billion forints per year. From this point forward, we can rightly say that the media group TV2 and its leader are called Pavel Stanchev's stake on the law, the court, the executioner, and, ultimately, the Hungarian people and the Hungarian rule of law. And they can do this without any problems in Hungary today. Dear Parliament, Dear Colleagues, If you are already trying to justify this proposal with fundamental rights arguments, then the representative of the government could also answer questions such as, say, your definition of the rule of law... Take a pen and take notes so you can answer, Secretary of State. [[Lajos Kósa: He is not the author!]] Does your rule of law mean that everyone has to abide by the law? What's your answer to that? Or, let's say, according to your government's legal interpretation, do you have to execute final court judgments? What do you say to that? Or third, final question: if court rulings cannot be enforced, shouldn't we, say, amend the legislation itself? [[12.20]] And finally, while we are talking here, allow me to highlight a slightly broader context in relation to the bill, because, according to the submitting Members, this amendment is necessary because of freedom of expression; that is what you have said several times. I find it interesting, however, that the government will only defend the free debate on public affairs if it is in its own interest, but no one can judge the government anymore. Why do I say that? Because, at the same time as this proposal, you are preparing to restrict your own freedom of expression for teachers. They could not, according to your plan, speak freely about the state of public education, just as they cannot speak freely about the state of public health about the maladministration of doctors, nurses or prisons, let us say, the Bv employees. So, so much for their Fidesz freedom of speech. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the opposition benches.]]
u2023-05-03-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr László Lukács György Group Leader. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-03-61	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, and so do they. The Jobbik-Conservatives' idea of the country is that a normal Hungary is needed. One standard of normality is the exemption from extremes, i.e. the exemption from extreme thinking, and in the light of this, this bill can certainly be discussed or looked at. [[Lajos Kósa and János Halász laugh.]] Thinking about the level of public speech and how it can be resolved and how to ensure the greatest freedom or maximum tightening is of two extreme values: a complete liberalisation and a complete release, which means that anyone can say anything unpunished, the other is a very strict and restrictive attitude. I don't think they're right. The current legislation, contained in the Hungarian Criminal Code, has otherwise chosen the right medium and represents a good ratio, regardless of what the European Court of Human Rights or any other international organisation has in mind. I think it's a specific passage and a place in our code of conduct, the criminal code that's been good so far, and let's just say it was a time-out and a test-out regulation. So in this context, it is worth looking at what is normality, and it can be said that the closest thing to normality and normal Hungary is the regulation that we have now. It goes against this, and then two reasons can be put forward: one is a legal reason, which I think is wrong and incompatible with the age spirit, and the other is a reason for conflicting with the Basic Law. So these two reasons can be put forward for one reason why the proposal itself is wrong. One: I doubt that the authors and, therefore, the government would have a legal justification for the current public status, given the four hundred missing press cases, the press trials on the assembly line, and, by the way, the defamation and defamation proceedings that will be published later as a branch, I do not think that the correct conclusion from today's public sentiment is that liberalisation and in this case the relief of criminality are necessary. It is clear that it has become trendy and even operational that certain media products, if we put it this way, by means of media products and media services, have, therefore, become regular, precisely in the way that you are about to decriminalise, on this very road, using these surfaces, using their financial capacities, that false statements that are completely contrary to reality have been made about others and are being communicated. The current civil procedure system cannot cope with this, which is clearly demonstrated by the fact that the various charges and other penalties applied regularly simply do not prevent the perpetrators from harming civil law. This is why it is important to have the possibility, not of civil law, but of criminal law, of a method of punishment that highlights the nature of ultima ratio, which allows the State to express its disapproval of media services and its criminal claim, which is an obligation to enforce the state's criminal claim in such a crime that is openly contrary to social standards. That is why it should be said, and this is another issue for you to consider, that a person who operates media services keeps a press product up, says himself as a journalist, yet he knows not only the weight of the written word or the word spoken in the common sense, but also the increased responsibility that should be followed and borne in mind, journalists have their own professional ethical expectation to express their claims carefully, clarifying the facts, seeking the truth. If we take it away from them and remove it from criminality, I do not say that it should be a classified case if someone, as a press product or press worker, commits defamation or slander, but if we decriminalize it in this case, and say that they will otherwise receive even more immunity from the facts of defamation and defamation, and we take them out, that is exactly the opposite. After all, people who have chosen the profession of trying to get the real thing, the truth, the factual one to the public and the public, and doing it professionally, must have an increased expectation of them not only in their own code of ethics, but also in the form of criminal law claims in the state's image. Therefore, it cannot be overlooked that those who use it for their profession should be removed from it. This is like saying that we can calmly exempt lawyers or lawyers from various professional practices, because they do not get involved, even though their increased attention and responsibility is that they are used as lawyers and even as qualifying circumstances in judgment when a person engages in, or commits, such proceedings contrary to his or her own law, to the violation of his or her professional order and to all his or her knowledge. Everyone at the doctor's, the architect's, the lawyers take that into account. Now you're making an escape route to the media workers, the media workers. And I would add that in today's world, creating a press product and media service depends on an NMHH registration and a chatbot's website building and registering work, so I can create 32 news portals for you in about 15 minutes so that those 32 media workers can be the same person and he calls himself a journalist. We can send a message to János Pócs that he should not have had much trouble with his current immunity case, because if he wants to launch a media service next, or make himself an editor of a press organ, although I think it is incompatible with the legal status of Members of Parliament, but if a lower-level municipal representative wants to maintain this, or a general meeting president, he will make himself a media product and then slander anyone as he wishes and publish anything through that media service. I would add that this is the next problem, because you are proposing that it be an obvious and seriously abusive term, it should be denial, so the obvious and grossly abusive denial in criminal law, in the current criminal law, does not have an exact, abstract concept that we can judge. Neither in the application of criminal law nor in the case-law is there an existing, developed, worked-out, exact definition. And that's a problem because, in criminal matters, we have known this since the change of regime, which is one of the most important gems of Hungarian criminal law, that all the wording must be clear, clearly firm and without any uncertainty. I recommend that you pay attention to 11/1992. the Constitutional Court's decision, which spells this out well, and I do not think that this is the condition that you, the authors, have made on this test, but that does not go through it, this will not be appropriate. I'm suggesting that if you're gonna do this, you shouldn't do that, because it won't be appropriate. I am pleased that you believe that, fortunately, it is not the legislature that has to decide this, but the Constitutional Court that has to decide it. I would like to add that precisely in order to make this necessary, I will take advantage of this opportunity, and I will encourage my fellow Members to do so, that if we adopt this law in its current form, we should turn to the Constitutional Court and look at it before anyone starts using it, that the constitutionality of this law exists, because our criminal law is not about regulating the plants that farmers can grow, but is the most important code governing the most serious standards of our society. Any level of intervention in this must be concrete-proof, understandable, consistent, so at least we have the responsibility to ask the opinion of the Constitutional Court if the majority accepts such a bill and the others support it. [[12.30]] I would also like to add what I have said about the fact that the current legal policy needs are facing and that it is entirely contrary to the current proposal. To add, the whole thing was drawn to the e-mail from the Foundation for Transparent Journalism received a month ago, which was obviously a pro-government attempt, sent, I remember, to all the faction leaders, to us. There is one problem that, by looking at the Foundation for Transparent Journalism, one thing is not known or one thing cannot be seen is that they are transparent. Unlike their names, they don't have any accounts. [[Szabó Timea: It was a good joke.]] One thing you can see for sure is that people close to Fidesz were grifting about it. By the way, this request letter was so tricky that at the beginning they were making jokes with 444 journalists, Telex journalists, and what the cases were. Of course, then Angéla Füssy came out of the well-known plague-racing bugs, so it was a very transparent thing they were trying to do. You've come up with one of these... now in the media we're going to take a real liberal position and mainstream foreign position with something, but again, in their own way, they've tried to sell it with such an established puppet theater, but people can see through it, and the profession can clearly see through it. I think that they are going in a very bad direction, completely incompatible with the current state of public health, what you are proposing here in the bill. I would add that, if you really want to modify the state of public life's tone or measured public communications, I suspect that you do not want to move in this direction, we would suggest instead of amending the Btk. amendment that there should be civil sanctions that would take into account the revenue of individual editorials when, for example, setting damages. For example, it is not possible for editorials with revenues of 50 or 100 billion to pay 500,000 forints. Or, for example, the amount lost, so let it be a number, an absolute number, that as many lawsuits are lost, the damages are increased, and the individual or administrative penalties are increased. Perhaps Fox News, not so far away from you, will pay $800 million for his lies over the past few years. Well, think about it if it's for Mars Aniko and the other announcer. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Gábor Gönczi!]] You should pay in proportion to your increased lies, probably make everyone around TV2 a runaway if we talk about a rising number. So if you are truly committed to a fair and normal public relationship, Gábor Gönczi, yes, thank you very much for your help, then you would not go to the liberalisation of the Btk., but to leave the well-defined, coherent and well-applied Btk. alone and work on civil rights to clean up the tone of public life. This would otherwise be our shared responsibility, because it is now the word "politician" that sounds like a curse in the country, and if it were to be counted, I'm sorry, who are the most hated in this country and whose lowest social credibility is, unfortunately, the politicians would be in first place. That is why I think that we have worked hard on all sides of the horseshoe, and I would add them self-critically, but if we really wanted to move forward in this, then it would be our shared responsibility to put the consequences of civil rights and the work on it first and not to deal with the Btk. In its current form, they cover themselves with European proposals, even though they cover themselves with other kinds of opinions, the current state of the public and therefore the legal interest is not behind such a change. It's simply a political diversion or action you're planning. I think it's going to cause enormous damage to the domestic public address if we go this way. In view of the above arguments and the fact that, in my view, it is against the law, we cannot support it in this form. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition.]]
u2023-05-03-62	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The lead speaker of the Group of our country is Mr President Novák. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-03-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, By default, should it not be punishable by slander and defamation, by free discussion of public affairs that are not more precisely defined, by means of a press product or media service? That's the question, this bill suggests the Btk. I think that this would be an overreaction, since not only should politicians not lie, but they should not lie about politicians, let us add that. The Hungarian Movement would like to support the work of journalists, in particular the work of fact-finding journalists. Perhaps we should start by saying that journalists should not be banned from this corridor of parliament. You can ask politicians, just in order to avoid misunderstandings, by chance, let's say, a slander, ask about some shit, let the Member clarify himself, but this is not the case in Parliament, but they begin to silence journalists and make it impossible for them not even to ask a Member at work, not even journalists in Parliament's corridor. And yes, as for fact-finding, for example, agent cases cannot be revealed today, not only because it is encrypted, but if we dare to say this about a well-known agent in the III/II, say, János Martonyi, I, say, dare I, am suable and reprehensible, because the overly strict agent law could say that we cannot list so much evidence today because of an agent protection law, even though we know the code names of the Marosvásárhelyi and Alságdi, even though one or two, say, case 6, this is not enough to call someone an agent today, for example, an agent. So we do see a lot of times that the journalist's hands are tied. It is also tied when public interest data claims are constantly restricted. They were not yet ashamed of the amendment of the law entitled "Father's Man, Mother's Woman" or even of the amendment of the Fundamental Law by means of a salad law that, by narrowing down the concept of public money, they tried to limit the scope of requests for data of general interest. There is a long list of how the work of journalists is being made impossible, which is why it would be better to deal with those who are not exempt from the criminal consequences of defamation and defamation, to whom the law should apply in the same way. It is very painful that, in the meantime, they do not talk about immunity, but if something should be restricted and politicians should indeed be guaranteed, not to the detriment of it, but in the spirit of equality before the law, it is to abolish immunity in the case of politicians. It is also because it is not possible to investigate and investigate politicians with immunity, therefore the antiquated privilege hinders the discovery of political crime, which unfortunately is now promoted as the sole party by the Hungarian Movement. Today, we have seen no suspension of the immunity of a Fidesz congressman, and there was slander and defamation on the agenda again. It seems a little bit that their own convenience, most of all, is dictated to their convenience. Lying, lying, is not only a trademark of Ferenc Gyurcsány, but, unfortunately, we see that this dirty work, although very elegantly, may be one of the secrets of their election success, the governing parties are putting it on friendly pro-government media. There is also documentary evidence of this: the number of failed lawsuits in recent years is hundreds of times. And they say they defend themselves now that even if the law was adopted, the victim would still have the possibility of a press correction procedure or a legal suit, but in reality, these two instruments do not deter media workers from describing false claims if they are the client's expectation and compensate for that, let's say, in payment. Last year, for example, only the Origo 13 lost such a lawsuit, I say this not so much as as affected, unbiased, because they use the tactics of silence against the Hungarian Movement, every leap year, once we can appear on the Origo News Portal with an article they consider to be discrediting. Unfortunately, lies are not just typical of the Origo, since a total of 29 correction lawsuits have been lost in the entire government media in the last year alone. So, say Gyula Horn or more serious things, Gyula Horn said about his past, so that we are a country without consequences, we have already seen, but why increase it, why increase it? It is just a matter of changing the way politics can do anything, including not only strictly politicians, but also the lackeys that serve it, of course. [[12.40]] Why don't you deal with the fact that according to the NMHH's official statements, if you look at politicians' speaking time, who really suffers from silence. And I'm not saying that, but we can read it from the NMHH statistics, at least between the lines, that it's the Movement of our country. It is true that since the elections, since we got to Parliament, our speaking time has increased tenfold: from 2 percent to 2 percent, not from 2 percent, but from 2 percent. This means that the previous 0.2 percent is now 2 percent, while our election result was 6 percent. Since then, public opinion polls that underestimate us have done twice as much, and they say that we have doubled our social support, and yet we have not achieved our election results in any medium, even though the legal requirement for balanced information would apply not only to public media, but also to all televisions and radios. And what do we see? For example, according to the monthly summary of the latest NMHH statement, 2.3 percent of the time is given to the MiHazánk Movement if one hundred percent of all political acts are taken. So not the weather report, sports news, and any other tabloid news, but if you just take political news as a hundred percent, that's 2.3 percent. On News TV, of course, that's not all, but on ATV we thank you very much above average, although we can't even reach 6 percent of our election results there. Our appearance in the also fidesz TV2 is around zero percent. Well, that's how the media works or doesn't work as one of the pillars of democracy, but not even public media, and according to the law, in principle, the rest would be subject to the requirement of balanced information. With regard to our 2.3 percent, I don't talk about the Hungarian Movement because it hurts me the most, of course, and that many other taboo themes are silenced in the news, but because the most serious violation is here. There is no need to be sorry for KDNP, as it receives three times as much appearance as the Hungarian Movement that is passed into parliament on the independent list. But 2.3% of the Hungarian Movement receives significantly more DK, more LMP, Momentum, MSZP, Dialogue, and practically everyone. That's pretty amazing. Look at yesterday's Mayal. Usually, the Hungarian Movement held most of the country's most attractive, largest Mayals. Take a look at the photos of the president of the MSZP. A few dozen people listened to it with András Jámbor, a representative of the Dialogue. The Metropolitan Municipality, led by Gergely Christmas, was at the jubilee mayal of Budapest, 150 years old, with goodwill, a few hundred, while at the event of the Hungarian Movement several thousand. So what we're seeing is that the media, within the framework of your laws, is making an amazing distortion. In that sense, I think that the entire electoral system is questionable. The government then spread its hands, saying that the media is independent, that they have no influence, and that we should turn to the Media Council, the Media Council of only Fidesz members, in whose legal predecessor, the ORTT, all parliamentary factions had delegates; but only Fidesz has one. They didn't even give KDNP any space, it's so important that only the most trusted party people, mamelukes, can be planted here. So only the delegates of the Fidesz were included in the most important media monitoring body, the Media Council. This is about as harsh as if only the delegates of Fidesz were included in the most important bodies to monitor the cleanliness of elections, in the ballot counting committees and in the electoral committees. If the independence and balance of the media body, which could also be subject to sanctions, only Fidesz members are allowed, then let us not be surprised that this is how the media works, or most of all the media does not work. As far as the concrete bill is concerned, on several points reference is made to the practice of the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights. In fact, however, I did not find a decision, nor did they refer to it in the reasoning of the bill, which is a direct precedent of this bill, i.e. there is no AB decision that explicitly required Parliament to adopt such a law. So don't point fingers at anyone else, and they'll take the political and moral responsibility to say that after that you can lie in the media, there's no criminal consequences. In order to refer to the ECHR, the European Court of Human Rights, which is based in Strasbourg, it is in itself an outrage. Should all their extreme liberal positions with regard to the different prison business and LGBTQP propaganda and so on be mastered? Of course, that's out of the question. So I think we should leave these alone. As regards international trends: according to the justification of the bill, slander and defamation are not a crime in some countries; this is what it states. This justification is, moreover, quite poor and clichéd, because it refers to foreign examples without any specifics. Therefore, I requested a little research from the Parliamentary Office's Information Service, which did so with their usual thoroughness. They gave me a ten-page summary, which I thank you for. But you could, too, if I bothered to, and that's not all they'd say. Because it is easy to say that there are examples in the European Union, there are several examples. Well, there are examples of everything and the opposite. And not only British scientists can be quoted. Of course, it is possible to find an international example that partially supports this, but, well, there is an example and counter-example for everything. Overall, however, most EU Member States continue to impose criminal sanctions on slander and defamation. So you would go against that, as far as international trends are concerned. I would add that you are right, however, that you may have said that, if not, I am saying that the process is leaning towards decriminalization in Drekrim, and I am sorry, I am haunted by the spirit of Péter Medgyessy; it is a difficult word, but it is undoubtedly in this direction that European policy is going, but, overall, the vast majority of the EU countries still have more criminal sanctions than you would want to abolish. In fact, Germany's criminal law protects public figures more than ordinary people. I'm not saying this is an example to follow, but there is one. What is thoughtful, however, and it is true in Germany and Italy that it is a classified case if slander and defamation are committed in the press. And you're saying that not only is it not a classified case, it's just an exemption. Your press is free to do whatever it takes, and the rest are forbidden to do anything, even to exist. Let's think that the Kuruc.info news portal here in Parliament has been banned by the state of László Kövér for years as one news portal. Any other Balliberian portal funded by the Soroses, funded by rolling dollars, is all available, but the most read right-wing news portal is blocked by László Kövér in one person because he thinks so. NMHH resolution or anything else, there's nothing behind it, but he can do it as a state in the state. Therefore, freedom of the press could be raised. In any case, if you look at international examples, you can see that international policy has moved in a different direction. As a professional criticism, let me finally state against the bill that the concept of public affairs is Btk. it does not define and, ultimately, public affairs can be interpreted in a very broad sense, which could completely evacuate the criminal regulation of slander and defamation. To conclude, the issue of immunity once again: if anything should be limited, it is that the Pharisee politicians hide behind their immunity. While the other parties were engaged in the distribution of positions around the Parliament's development, we were the first to submit it, even on the day of the Parliament's inaugural meeting, among the first motions to abolish the immunity of politicians. Unfortunately, all the other parties voted against our country's proposal to amend the basic law for the abolition of immunity, but at social pressure we are also trying to change the position of the other parties and end this kind of protection of political crime. I think that sooner or later they will have to back off, because an outdated political privilege is the irresponsibleness of Members, while in the Fundamental Law there is the lie that everyone is equal before the law; there are only equals. We, too, can always do active representation work by giving up our immunity. By the way, with the Parliamentary Guard, anyone can still be led out by the head of Parliament at any time, and they can ban a Member from Parliament for weeks, but it is not possible to investigate the issue of politicians with immunity, so this outdated privilege prevents the detection of political crime. Moreover, neither in the United Kingdom nor in Slovakia since 2012 have Members been protected from criminal prosecution. So if you want to find a way to limit the privileges of politicians, then I think you should mostly sweep around the house of immunity. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-05-03-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Dialogue Group is Mr Szabó Timea. There you go. You have the floor. [[12.50]]
u2023-05-03-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The amendment to the Penal Code presented by Fidesz before us is not only vile, but also contrary to the Fundamental Law, so the Dialogue-Greens will definitely turn to the Constitutional Court in the event that it continues to pass through Parliament. The point of this amendment is that press products will not be punished for defamation or defamation, which is important because so far in the Btk. it has been stated that whoever did this and it turns out that he has actually committed it has been punishable by imprisonment for up to two years. The attitude here is extremely cynical and vile, isn't it, that Fidesz says that the left is really against freedom of the press, or that, if I have heard correctly, the pro-government representative, Lőrinc Nacsa, said quite precisely that the left is an enemy of freedom of the press. This is, let's just say, a little weak as a joke, because it was not the left, but it was not the opposition that banned journalists from Parliament, for example, so that it was not possible to ask you by chance, but László Kövér. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Budapest Info! Budapest Info!]] It was not the opposition, and it was not the left that closed and plowed Népszabadság. It wasn't the opposition, it wasn't the left who plowed and took the frequency away from the Clubradio. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It was a court decision!]] And it wasn't the opposition, and it wasn't the left who also plowed the Index, fortunately after that there was a Telex, which you couldn't even close. So the rest of the cynicism and despicableness is that here, on the grounds of freedom of the press, you are practically embedding an unlimited lie. We know that the election of the local government, the election of the European Parliament is now coming, and Fidesz, with this amendment of the law, has told us that the worst, dirtiest, lying campaign of all time is coming; and, yes, from now on, News TV, Origo, the Pesti Guys will not be punished for virtually anything, for any lies they have spread about politicians. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's not true!]] Gergely Huth, the editor-in-chief of the Pesti Guys, said that he had already cooled the champagne at the editorial office, so pleased with this amendment; well, you can see that it is not the independent journalists who have applied for this amendment. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: The Transparent! The Transparent asked for it! The president's ringing the bell.]] This is the Foundation for Transparent Journalism, which is also a joke, but it turns out that it's a near-NER... so it's like the Foundation for Fundamental Rights, it's as much fighting for fundamental rights as this Foundation for Transparent Journalism is fighting for transparent journalism. So, there's a limit to that joke. But we know exactly how you destroyed not only careers but lives under the leadership of Antal Rogán. We remember the despicable way that Gábor Vona was claimed to have a homosexual relationship with Terry Black. Now, so far, it's been criminally punishable. [[János Halász intervenes.]] From now on, if someone says they're saying the same thing, it won't be punishable. [[Forebod Novak: Why, is it a negative thing?!]] So from now on, if, say, the Pesti Guys say that Lajos Kósa has a homosexual relationship with Terry Black, then Lajos Kósa will not be able to sue you for this. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: But Terry Black told me! Terry Black said so!]] The Btk. based on [[János Halász intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] The Pesti Guys. [[A statement from the opposition: Is this true, Timi? Right? Laughing:]] I don't know if it's true. [[The president's turning off Szabó Timea's microphone.]]
u2023-05-03-66	Congresswoman, you just have to get into this subject as long as you like to put up with the ink, as they say.
u2023-05-03-67	Mr President, I am very pleased that you spoke to me about this, because I do not think this will tolerate any printing ink. The President is very right. So how does the propaganda door come to ruin lives and families? Why? Didn't Gábor Anno Vona or Peter Juhász, Mr. President, have you no rights? From here on out... [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Péter Juhász?!]] Péter Juhász was told by the entire propaganda door that he was beating his partner and ruined his life. Of course, four years later, he won the lawsuit. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Talk to József Szájer!]] And from here on out... Well, let's say József Szájer was caught right there on the gutters. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Talk to him! Talk to him.]] So the question was, let's just say, a little different, because it actually happened here, but there were false allegations, and people were destroyed. Indeed, they later won the lawsuit, but there are lives for it. It's a despicable law amendment that we know exactly what it's about. From now on, you've been... They also want to sweep the remaining barriers and barriers out of the way so that practically unscrupulous lies can be told about anyone. Moreover, it is extremely cynical, as you refer to the freedom of the press here, when the list that has ranked Hungary 72nd in the area of freedom of the press from 180 countries has just been published, which means that everyone in Europe, every country, is ahead of Hungary in the freedom of the press. In addition, we know that in the last six years, nearly 400 press correction lawsuits have been lost by the propaganda press, and the independent press has not lost even a tenth of that. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's not true! That's not true.]] So we know exactly whose defense this was born to. This law is not born to protect real journalists or to amend this law, but to protect your filth propaganda, and as in Belarus and Russia, it is possible to destroy anyone here in Hungary without limit. Let's just take this case, really, in relation to TV2, Anikó Marsi, we are in the process of criminal proceedings, obviously now we have to protect the otherwise net lying Aniko of Mars, so we have to remove this from the Btk. But I myself have prosecuted 34 propaganda-door products, precisely for defamation of the crime of the CIA, in which the police launched the investigation. Now, from here on out, it's not gonna be possible to do that. And they're wrong about that, and it's a very cynical lie, too, that press trials can continue to be filed and personality lawsuits can continue; but your other standard practice is to now publish articles anonymously in their propaganda products, and that if someone sues for personality rights, we know exactly that in order to bring a legal suit, the person of the perpetrator must be identified. Now, your propaganda-door products are cynically saying that, well, we don't know who wrote the article, unfortunately it came out anonymously, we can't trace it. Now, that's exactly what criminal proceedings have been all along for, because in criminal proceedings, it was possible to investigate by the police who wrote the article about who the perpetrator was from here on out, so no, it's not possible to prosecute these insults in court. It is also extremely cynical for you to refer to the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, while the lawsuits launched by Members, which are aimed at restricting freedom of expression, are being lost; for which we receive ten million penalties, because we cannot express our opinion in this House, you are losing these lawsuits in the European Court of Human Rights. So no, that is not what the Court of Human Rights has asked you to do; it is obviously easy to lie about it, as is the practice of the Constitutional Court, which is also completely contrary to that. The Constitutional Court's standards are exactly the opposite of what you are about to introduce. This proposal, Btk., is clearly contrary to the Fundamental Law, since it does not in any way meet the requirement of clarity and therefore is a very serious breach of legal certainty. So far, judges have acted in such criminal proceedings free to consider whether a statement of fact or a claim is indeed slander or defamation. Now that you're removing press products from this category, you'll also claim that everyone else who makes these claims is guilty. In accordance with its sections, therefore, the possibility of judicial discretion is completely excluded from this process, which goes exactly against the standards of the Constitutional Court so far; so it is not true what you say in the explanatory statement. Moreover, it is completely discriminatory, since there is no such thing in the world as a great, most public lie, not in the least public. Once again, in order to make the example clear - : if Zsolt Bayer claims, say, in a hundred thousand ratings, that Lajos Kósa had a homosexual relationship with Terry Black, it is not punishable [[János Halász: It's stuck, I see!]] But if Lajos Kósa claims this about Zsolt Bayer, then Lajos Kósa can be punished because he is not a press product... [[The president's turning off Szabó Timea's microphone.]] [[13.00]]
u2023-05-03-68	Madam Congresswoman, once again, I ask you not to draw such personal parables. [[Szabó Timea: I beg you, Mr. President.]] Yes, yes! Don't beg, try to stick to it.
u2023-05-03-69	You're proving, Mr President, that freedom of expression is a high priority for me in a case like this. [[Don't judge the president.]] Which, by the way, is constantly pushed by the propaganda door. Indeed, such examples are needed so that people can understand what this amendment of Btk is about. This is about if Zsolt Bayer says what it says...
u2023-05-03-70	Don't say "Zsolt Bayer." And I can tell you, you know that joke, I'm not telling you from the beginning to explain it to him. That's all I need is for you to give an example of your lucky spirit and then explain yourself. Well, I'm not gonna let you do that from here.
u2023-05-03-71	That's what happened to Gábor Vona, by the way, he was the one who had to explain himself, but his family was almost destroyed. But in this case, Lajos Kósa will not be able to sue Zsolt Bayer. Well, what's this? ! That certainly doesn't comply with the Fundamental Law. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It's not true you won't be able to sue!]] So making such an absurd and extreme distinction between a great public and the smallest public, there is no such thing in the world! It's that if they say the same thing on News TV or write the same example on Pesti Guys, but let's say, in a pub, two people say to each other that it's not Lajos Kósa, but James Gypsy who has a homosexual relationship with Terry Black, he can sue him if he says that in a pub. No way, it's against the law, the Constitutional Court can't let that pass. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: But you can sue him!]] [[Nacsa Lőrinc: But you can sue him!]] No, my honourable colleague Nacsa, you cannot sue him criminally, because it is not, by your definition, a serious violation of human dignity. (Lőrinc Nacsa: But you can sue!) (The President's seat is Dóra Dúró, Vice-President of the Parliament.) In addition, there is a point to this amendment, which is completely incomprehensible. Once defamation and defamation have been taken separately in this category, it is stated that it is not punishable by defamation by a press product or media service, provided that its action is not aimed at manifest or gravely abusive denial of the victim's human dignity. This stops in the case of defamation, but in the case of defamation, it is completely pointless. If I say that a worm is a worm, then it stops in defamation, but not in defamation with your amendment, because if I say that someone is a worm, then I don't think that he is a worm physically, but that's my opinion of him. So it doesn't make sense in the context of slander. So in Hungarian, stupidity was written on top of everything else in this amendment. The Dialogue therefore considers this not only to be a despicable and full embedding of the propaganda door, to be a complete restriction on freedom of expression, but also to be a serious violation of the Fundamental Law, so the Dialogues-Greens will turn to the Constitutional Court in the event of the adoption of this law. Instead of constantly lying and ruining the lives of others, we propose that Fidesz and you, Antal Rogán and Viktor Orbán, retain their power, rather than turn down propaganda, try to tell the truth from time to time and withdraw this completely nonsense bill. Thank you. [[Dr. Ferenc Dávid and Zoltán Vajda applaud.]]
u2023-05-03-72	Welcome, fellow Members. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We now have two-minute speeches, first from the Group of the Democratic Coalition, Mr Zsolt Gréczy. Here you go.
u2023-05-03-73	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear House, It's only a two-minute window, but, well, there's a few things that need to be fixed up here. My fellow Member Nacsa called on this side that there are enemies of freedom of the press and the old Communists. Let's say the Gajdics-Bencsik-Stefka-Kondor inside four, let's say, it's hard to justify having the old communists here. No, they're sitting there protecting Fidesz's freedom of the press. And by the way, none of the rolling dollars you linked to DK received any money, so that was a lie. Thank you very much. [[Szabó Timea applauds. Nacsa Lawrence: Yes, you can.]] Says the ruble right.
u2023-05-03-74	The next two-minute comment from Lőrinc Nacsa, the KDNP fraction. Here you go.
u2023-05-03-75	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Parliament, Saved photos there are that foreign advertisements appear on DK's website. The euro may not have come to you in dollars, but in euro, it doesn't matter. They've financed your cards from abroad, and they're funding it now. It's a foreign requirement for you to do the dirtyest thing against us. The fact is, Mrs Timea Szabó, it is not true that you cannot sue her. Well, you can sue him. That's what the bill is about. If you have a problem with one of the journalists, one of the psychics. [[Szabó Timea: Personal rights lawsuit!]] Because he wrote something about you that you don't think is true, so you can sue him, that's what civil litigation is about, that's what the civil code is about. You can't sue him. At least don't spread something you don't understand, honourable Member. [[Szabó Timea: Oh, you don't understand!]] Of course, you can sue him, you can still sue him. You tell me, honourable Member, that, for example, the Transparent journalists are such Fidesz propagandists, because they have asked for this amendment, for example. There was such a suggestion already in 2013, and then later. Many, many of you are independent, but, of course, independent, objective means that newspapers that are often very independent of reality and newspapers that are very independent of the facts have asked for this amendment on many occasions. The Secretary-General of the Council of Europe has also proposed this to a number of European states. So you're calling him some kind of, I don't know, Fidesz hirer or something? So you're using adjectives on everyone here, while a lot of people thought that decriminalization was a good process and strengthening the freedom of the press. I'm sorry you're not one of them, but don't think that's exactly the case. Speaking of corrections, honourable Member, there is a website for this, look at how many corrections have had to be made by a number of media that regularly uncritically press only your text and constantly attack the government for what we think it is. How many corrections did they have to publish, honourable Member? [[Szabó Timea: Not much!]] Take a look at this, Madam Congresswoman. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-05-03-76	Szabó Timea, Dialogue also applied for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2023-05-03-77	It looks like you're either doing it on purpose or you really don't understand. So what's happening in your propaganda, cesspool, is that they're bringing down defamatory, defamatory articles anonymously. In order to attack this in civil proceedings, the perpetrator must be identified. And the unsub can be identified in criminal proceedings. I know that because that's exactly what happened in this CIA slander case. The court has ordered the police to start an investigation. The police have identified the journalist, the previously unnamed journalist, for some, not all, but for some propaganda products, this could not have happened without the police investigation. Now you're taking away this opportunity. So in these civil proceedings, which you refer to, there will be no perpetrator against whom the civil suit can be brought. The editor-in-chief, the editor-in-chief may be at the end of the day, but for the time being, the court in this CIA case said that he couldn't determine who was responsible. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Because automatically the responsible editor or editor-in-chief is not responsible in these cases. That's what the court says now. You know perfectly well that, only cynical, vilely, you claim that you will be in civil litigation. In addition, you have nothing to pay $3 million, $4 million, $10 million, $100 million as a punishment, you do it laughing because it's worth it to you to take down and discredit those against power, but you're actually afraid that, say, for two years, someone will have to go to jail, or you'll be banned from employment, or you'll get reprimanded, or you'll get any other criminal charges. That's what you're trying to stop, because the punishment will be paid laughing at the civil trial. Thank you.
u2023-05-03-78	State Secretary Répássy also made a two-minute contribution. Out of line, I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2023-05-03-79	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I don't want to argue that as a lawyer, I've been in more lawsuits like you, let's just say. But the thing is, if there is a false statement of fact, then the following legal instruments are available. And now I'm trying to list all the assets of the entire legal system. [[13.10]] One of the tools is correction. Correction is a press instrument. The time limit for correction is limited, and correction is a relatively rapid opportunity for a false statement to be corrected by the press. You don't have to sue for this anyway, if you realize that the press product is admitting that it was wrong or false, then you can correct it yourself and then you'll have a correction procedure. After that, or regardless of that, there is a personality lawsuit. In this case, you can sue the publisher of the press product, i.e. the publisher indicated in the impressum. [[Constant outbursts from opposition lines.]] But, by the way, if the journalist, the editor, is marked, you can sue him. There's a special media authority procedure, isn't there? [[Depreciation and continuous intervention from opposition ranks.]] The media authority may also have a media authority procedure in matters falling within the competence of the media authority. And then comes the fourth instrument, indeed, the criminal prosecution of defamation or defamation, if the conditions are met, because obviously this would be a much stricter procedure. In the latter case, it is indeed necessary to identify the perpetrator, but I stress that only in criminal proceedings and in all other cases, the editorial board or rather the responsible publisher is responsible for the compensation rules or civil law rules. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-03-80	We will continue with the two-minute speakers. Congressman Zoltán Vajda from MSZP has applied. Here you go.
u2023-05-03-81	Thank you very much for the floor. We are supposed to be talking about the press and the media here, but in the context of our conversation, propaganda has also been mentioned, and I and others have also mentioned the cases of TV2's propaganda television, which produces sewage products. I'm the one who quoted you losing a lawsuit 400 times, if I remember the number correctly. [[To intervene:]] So there were 400 press trials on propaganda, by the way, and many of them on TV2. I asked Mr. Secretary of State to respond when he had the chance. At the time, I didn't see you taking notes, but now I see you've spoken to him, and you've referred to you as a man of law. So, please, let's just go over it one more time, so that you can help me, who is not a law-abiding man, and then you can answer the three simple questions, because you're a law-executor, and I'm just a simple economist, that the definition of the rule of law is that everyone has to follow the law. Does your interpretation of the law require you to execute final court judges? And my third question was that if these judgments cannot be enforced, they should not be amended. I'm asking you this because TV2 only needs $500,000 in fines to pay a few times a year. It is a company that, by the way, has about HUF 50 billion in our money, or HUF 50,000 million in revenue, so he laughs at the fines of half a million, and the head of whom is always worth calling Pavel Stanchev, he consciously puts the laws, the courts, the executives and the Hungarian people, the Hungarian rule of law, because he does not knowingly execute a final court judgment. So I'm going to ask you, Mr. Secretary, if you're going to take the liberty of clearing these three questions up for me. Thank you very much.
u2023-05-03-82	Our next two-minute speech is from the Fidesz Group, Mr János Kiss. Here you go.
u2023-05-03-83	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear House, I asked for the floor to make a brief European outlook in the European Union and in Europe itself. My colleague, Mr President Novak, said that he was a little disappointed in the justification of the law because he considered it cliché, that he did not find in it a list of countries where there is no criminal protection against defamation and slander; then I would like to supplement the legal justification. There were, to be exact, five countries in the European Union, now only four, because the United Kingdom has left this bond, where there was no criminal protection, and there is no criminal protection against defamation or defamation, so outside the United Kingdom we can say that it has a rather rich legal tradition, so the UK's legal system is not underestimated; [[Constant noise, interruptions from the pro-government and opposition ranks.]] So, apart from the United Kingdom, there is no criminal protection in Ireland, Estonia, Cyprus or Romania for the cases on which you would like to have a very high level of criminal protection; but I would add that we could now go through this in two minutes in all the EU Member States. In France, for example, there is criminal protection, but imprisonment is neither an option nor an option; only financial penalties can be applied. If I understand the communication of the left, you would not accept it in any way, because the fine is not a punishment for you, because you believe that it can be paid. That's a pretty dangerous criminal thinking, because if I draw conclusions from that, all I can draw is that you would consider a single form of punishment acceptable if you didn't take the fine, only imprisonment. [[Continued intervention from opposition and pro-government lines.]] Well, it sounds pretty bad that they'd want to put journalists in jail with that kind of thinking. Overall, I believe that the political struggle must be fought in political space, not in the corridors and halls of the criminal court. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-03-84	I would like to inform Mrs Szabó Timea that although she has applied for a two-minute comment, I can no longer give her the floor in this round, but in the next, of course, she has the opportunity to speak again. Congressman Lajos Kósa came forward on a case-by-case basis, to whom I give the floor. If you wish to make a point of order, you have one minute, and if you are personally concerned... [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] Don't you? You want to react? (To be indicated:) Yeah, it's good. You asked for a normal word, all right, then we will return to the normal speakers, and in this context, Congressman Zsolt Gréczy... [[Lajos Kósa: Madam President, I would like to take the floor as rapporteur, because I am a rapporteur of the proposal, and at any stage of the debate I can ask for a word, but I cannot press a button that I would like to speak as rapporteur.]] Okay, okay, that's clear. Then you must not ask for a point of order, but you will jump forward, although we have here indicated that János Halász represents the authors, but, of course, you also have the opportunity to ask for the floor as rapporteur. In this case, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kósa, in a 15-minute time frame, among those who have asked for the normal word. [[Noise.]]
u2023-05-03-85	Thank you very much, Madam President. Once again, I was unable to indicate that I would like a word as a rapporteur, and the three of us in this room are the authors, and only Matthew Kocsis is not here, and I would have asked for a word on behalf of the authors for a few brief remarks. Before that, let me just say that I reject my fellow Member Szabó Timea's statements or comments concerning me. The truth is that I am the oldest Member of Parliament or one of the oldest of the four, but I have never met a more unworthy Member than Szabó Timea in the 32 years. [[Szabó Timea keeps interrupting.]] [[Szabó Timea keeps interrupting.]] The field is quite strong, because from József Torgyán down, we can remember a number of our fellow Members on the way up. (Szabó Timea constantly intervenes.) Dear House, For the sake of interest, I would like to present to you the comments on the TAS website. There is a literal quote from the TASZ: The TASZ, who is not a friend of ours, I can safely say that he welcomes the law on the upcoming decriminalisation of the free discussion of public affairs and draws attention to the further work of the government. So the article is not very friendly, I would just like to say that the TASZ, for example, specifically supports this initiative. [[Continued intervention from opposition lines, including: Read the statement.]] It is written that the bill is a talkative example that there are moments when the self-interests of the governing party accidentally serve the common good, and all of these lucky co-operations are welcome. So this is just an interesting thing; by the way, countless press organisations with a specific left-wing orientation have asked for the introduction of this regulation. Of course, you can ignore that, and I'm not sure that left-wing press organisations are right, by the way, but as an interesting fact, they don't necessarily share your opinion. [[13.20]] The truth is that it is misleading to illustrate the statistics of press correction and, in particular, defamation and defamation cases, because, where appropriate, significant differences in numbers are influenced not only by who is right and who is wrong, but also by who has an understanding that does not lead to criminal proceedings against press products. During my 33 years of experience, I've been attacked with a lot of things. I've never asked for criminal proceedings in any case, so I've won all the civil sections. In fact, I am aware of the record among the Hungarian representatives of the largest amount of press damages ever granted, the amount of which I immediately paid to the Foundation of the Children's Clinic in Debrecen, so it was not a question of serving anyone's personal case here. [[Interventions and information in opposition benches.]] I was thinking of doing evil things so that you can make some kind of good. Undoubtedly, in our view, it is not right for the debate to take place in criminal proceedings in political debates. It is much more appropriate for personal harm, or for press correction, to apply to the court, all the more so, because the private charge is really very problematic anyway. Therefore, I note this only because any claim involving the prosecution, so to speak, is based on a legal error; it is a private accusation that the prosecution has nothing to do with this proceeding. So, in all such private prosecution cases, it is indeed proof, especially of who the perpetrator was, that it is extremely difficult not to say almost impossible; especially because he encounters horribly cynical positions. For example, in many cases, I have encountered a cynical attitude when a press product claimed that he did not know who wrote the article, nor does he know how it came to be in the publication, while otherwise it was entirely obvious. I note that it is right, in the civil phase, for damages, for press correction, to have these facts, then politicians, if any, want to give a minimal signal that the whole thing is a fabrication, it is not true, they dispute it, and the rest turn to the court. In democracy, I think the penalty phase, so the threat of punishment is simply not good, has no place. [[Gergely Harvestó: Where is democracy, Louis? Tell me.]] The fact is that we have therefore tabled this proposal with my fellow Members. Not to win the sympathy of the TSA or one of the left-wing press products, it didn't occur to us to think of it, and since the press on the left is a tool for class struggle, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. [[Szabó Timea: Szabó Timea!]] The fact is, however, that if someone really takes false claims seriously in some way should be curbed in the press, which is justified and can be agreed with, it is certainly not possible to achieve them by tightening up or increasing the number of criminal instruments. Rather, I think that the damages or damages that can be fortified by increasing the amount of your work, by some legal means, represent a greater restraining force, because a publication, say, a penalty of HUF 20 million, is a more serious deterrent to spreading lies than the threat of one of the journalists, I know, with three months in detention. I would add that there is no such proposal in front of this House, but I would just like to say that I find the Left's argument a little false in terms of the fact that we would allow the dissemination of the unrealities in the press to be unleashed. No, we think it is only right that if we take freedom of expression seriously and that I note that, by the way, there is a particular public interest, it is also enshrined in the Fundamental Law, so that political debates can be resolved. Even if, in the case of a person, he is unable to argue culturally, he insults others on the one hand and, on the other hand, he cannot speak his words in a cultural way. That's his problem, but regardless, the obstacle to political debate is not Btk. let it be, therefore, not criminal instruments; that is why this direction of amendment, which I call on Members to support, is correct. In fact, if they have a problem that has been said in the debate, we should rather stick our heads together and say that we should see, let us say, in the civil litigation stages, the various sentences and fines are raised to a level that is in England! And then a tabloid called Sun can be punished for £20 million. And from then on, there's no discussion that everyone's really thinking about what they're writing, how well they're backed up, but not with Btk. I think that political debates should not be brought to justice, and that is why I support this proposal, and that if the opposition has other proposals to achieve their intentions, let's talk about it, let's see how we can move forward in this matter. But this proposal is good now. This proposal, by the way, does not please anyone, but comes from the concept that I have said, once again: we do not think that political debates should be taken against journalists in criminal proceedings. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-03-86	Our next regular speaker is Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, Democratic Coalition. Here you go.
u2023-05-03-87	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear House, This proposal will lead to the release of hell, so it can be expected. So if these ties and self-discipline bonds are looser than they are now, then here and there in a election campaign due this time of next year there will be a slanderous campaign going back and forth against all politicians to the candidate of the last village, which will simply not be controlled by Hungarian justice, Hungarian public speaking or anyone else. This could be the outcome. 'Cause the end of it is that if one can, the other can, too. Because from this bill, everyone will conclude that, well, so far, there's sort of been some kind of brake, and you could be in a position to be uncomfortable, but now it's gone. This is an extremely dangerous precedent. Moreover, in the European Union, the European Parliament is currently having a debate on how to regulate the media and the state of freedom of the press in Hungary, and one of the Vice-Presidents of the European Parliament says that precisely the media set-up and media overpower implemented here by Fidesz is one of the reasons why this should be investigated. So the European Union is simply starting to lose the tantus that should have been disfigured in Hungary years ago. So when the same article appears in all county newspapers with the same Viktor Orbán photograph, it is no different from the fact that in 1952 the same article appeared from Mátyás Rákosi, in the same county papers; only, let's say, there was a red star, that was the difference. That's what's happening now. This is simply not freedom of the press! So when thousands of media are in possession of fidesz business circles and foundations, it's not freedom of the press. And it's already very serious. For example, I was slandered by the Fidesz press, accused of everything, and only one correction, legal correction, none published by the Fidesz press. So there's slander, there's a lie about a politician, but no one's told you about the correction, the legal, final correction. This is not a rule of law, which is here in Hungary! And it's just a drop in the sea. The judge who awarded compensation to me in the slanders of the Fidesz press against me stated in his court ruling that he was deeply disturbed by the fact that the final correction had not been disclosed by the convicted Fidesz media product. Today there are such conditions in Hungary. (In the notary seat Dr. István Tiba Replaced by Attila Gelencsér.) And it is also necessary to see that when someone from the Hungarian Television bond is released, let's say, there was such a reporter and gave an interview, he told us exactly what kind of freedom of the press prevails in Magyar Television; that they bring the paper and it should be read. [[13.30]] And he knew exactly from the moment he was gonna lie. And after a while, he couldn't sleep, and after a while, he started getting anxious, and he got medical problems, and he ended up quitting because he couldn't take it anymore. It's not freedom of the press. It's not freedom of the press when you prosecute Anikó Marsi, and then you first say that you represent the freedom of the press, and then you say you defend yourself in a court of law that it's not his fault, because he has to read what he's told, well, what he can do about whether it's a lie or not. It's pretty amazing. These people know exactly what they're doing, what they're doing, what they're giving their names to. The Hungarian freedom of the press is the world rankings of seventy. This means that there is no country in the European Union that is no more prominent on this list than currently the Hungarian freedom of the press. Moreover, this distorted structure, which appears in this system, has received another story in recent days, the Hungarian freedom of the press: the sale of printed press products has been cancelled from Magyar Posta's service supply. This is also a kind of restriction on Hungarian freedom of the press. Imagine, when in a small village post office, if any of the newspapers still exist, some weekly newspapers have arrived, maybe a couple of magazines, and it's over, and now the few people who might have bought them will not be able to read it either. I find it extremely strange when Fidesz talks about freedom of the press. We remember to take away the frequency of the Clubradio; we remember the end of the Népszabadság; we remember the end of the Kurír at the time of the first Orbán government; we remember the occupation, then the expropriation and then the destruction of the Magyar Hírlap, so it is no longer printed. So the Fidesz interprets freedom of the press so that, preferably, its own psychics can claim anything about anyone with considerable freedom. But, I'm telling you, the situation is coming up right now, and that's what we need to be prepared for, that there will be very serious problems here in the next municipal and European Parliament campaign starting in the fall. And you really have to be prepared, if everything can be described without punishment, then everything about everyone here will be described without punishment. That's what's gonna happen. And this Fidesz MEPs will be struck in the same way as non-fidesz Members. This will be a serious political problem and, therefore, this bill cannot be supported in any way. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-05-03-88	Since no one has applied for a two-minute speech this time, we will continue again with the Members who have asked for the normal word. Once again, I can speak from the Democratic Coalition's faction to Congressman Gergely Arató. Here you go.
u2023-05-03-89	Thank you very much. Dear House, It is always charming when you talk about the civilized conduct of political debates, who, by the way, approve it every time the Speaker punishes opposition representatives by withdrawing a few months' wages because of their opinion in this Parliament, which is protected by the Fundamental Law. However, I asked for the floor because our fellow Member Lajos Kósa forgot the second half of the TASZ communication. 'Cause what else does the SAO say? He says that in the interest of freedom of the press, it would be necessary to restore the public media character of public media. Instead of Propaganda, public service on public channels! Eliminate KESMA. The Central European Press and Media Foundation, including hundreds of media products, is a tool for central disinformation and hatred, not press. Free press is the critic of the current government, not its server. Although it is not the government's job, it would be welcomed that judicial practice also responds with merit, for example by assessing higher levels of damages, a phenomenon where a public figure is repeatedly wanted by the press to be morally destroyed by the court in order to recognise the asymmetrical situation between public figures. In other words, you have a revolver with which you can carry out character killings. I think, and that is why I asked for the floor to say that this amendment cannot be taken out of its context. It is possible to dream of an ideal world where there is a free press, where there are equal conditions of debate between the government side and the opposition side, where freedom of speech is not only valid, but also freedom of speech, in what way these kinds of legal relations should otherwise be regulated in such a world. 'Cause you can tell us here, Secretary of State, there's a correction lawsuit. In a large part of the correction lawsuits, the court decides that there is no need to correct the apparently false fact, because the journalist might have thought that this was the case. We know many of these cases from our own practice. And you can say, Mr. Secretary, that you will determine the responsibility of the publisher. But that's what I've been talking about: establishing the responsibility of TV2 in a personality legal case, or establishing the responsibility of KESMA, if you fulfil your liability for damages, because you do it, sometimes you do it, sometimes you do it, and sometimes you don't. But even if you do, the next time you put a little more government money in the form of ads or other forms, the taxpayers will pay the bill. There is one important element in libel lawsuits that are aimed at establishing personal responsibility. You can't hide behind the press here. But our colleague Lajos Kósa himself has also said that I think we can agree on this - that this is not a good practice when there is no personal responsibility for a false statement, whether it is a malicious, slanderous claim. But you're not handling this. That is why we say that this is not acceptable in itself. Otherwise, a complex package, if we discuss it in the Parliament under normal circumstances, would be worth talking about. Let's take a look at the other part: if we take out the slanderous branch, the criminal profession, then what means can we use on the civil side... Anyway, we're not talking about Uncle Pista saying nasty things about Aunt Juli at the pub, because, you know, it could be a slander, but it's a different affair, but we're talking about knowingly, intentionally, with character-murdering intent, with a lot of money, they're usually out of public money to make certain politicians and political forces falsely impossible. Legal protection is needed against this and there is no other option today. It is therefore not possible to support this proposal in itself, and that is why a well-thought-out and fairly debated general reform in this area could be supported. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-05-03-90	I would like to ask my fellow Members if they would like to make use of the opportunity to speak in the debate. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I'll ask the author who wants to answer. [[Fisherman for János:]] Congressman Fisherman says he's responding. So I'll give the word to János Halász for the author's reply in a 30-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2023-05-03-91	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, [[The president's smiling.]] Dear House, Thank you very much for the statement of support from our pro-government representatives. Left-wing MEPs also spoke about everything, as usual, about the proposal, but the last thing they told on the proposal was their usual lies and nonsense. It's good for you, you guys are always flashing this out here, watching it with admiration, listening with patience, listening to it. Now it would be tempting to tell everyone what I think about them, as it is such a form, if you have listened to it, you can do so now. I'm not gonna do it, because this whole thing doesn't understand the way you guys came to this case. It was good for one thing to confirm that this proposal serves the right and good purpose. This proposal is only about what is in it, amending a certain part of the criminal code. But it is about protecting freedom of expression and freedom of the press, and it is about ensuring the smooth conduct of journalistic work. [[13.40]] These values are important to us, which is included in the proposal, and we trust that Parliament will vote for this. Thank you very much for the floor, for the debate. That's it. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-03-92	I would like to inform my fellow Members that it is possible to present the amendments by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law amending certain laws in the context of cooperatives will follow until closure. The submission submitted by Mr Lajos Kósa, Mr Fidesz, Member T/3753. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Kósa, rapporteur on the agenda, in a 30-minute time frame.
u2023-05-03-93	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear House, I would like to amend the cooperative law and the Ptk. to a lesser extent in the case of cooperatives. My basic goal is to help the cooperative as a model company in Hungary to be more widespread, to be more flexible and to be able to use the potential of cooperatives by market participants. On the other hand, I would like us to contribute, by amending the cooperative law, to better support and support other activities that are typical of cooperatives, not exclusively economic, but primarily social and community-building. Thirdly, in order to make it work more effectively, we would like to make an amendment in the Ptk. that will allow cooperatives to fulfil the administrative obligations imposed on them within some reasonable framework. In the preamble to the Cooperative Act, I would like to add the statements or statements adopted by the international association which, by the way, this International Cooperative Alliance is the world's largest organisation, more than 2.5 billion. [[Sic!]] He has more than a hundred years of history, and in Hungary Sándor Károlyi initiated the 19th century. At the end of the 20th century, the founding of a cooperative to establish this economic form, which is primarily from England, is the principles adopted by the international cooperative movement; let us also establish them in the cooperative law. I think there is not much debate in this regard, it is just a supplement to the preamble, that we should also be like the cooperative laws that can be found in the large cooperative countries, from India to France to Canada. In order to reduce the number of members, I propose: from week to three, we reduce the number of people who can otherwise form a cooperative, of course, by the fact that there must also be a majority of natural persons here. Moreover, the regulation is similar in many countries, which have significant cooperative experience and history. I cannot list everyone, but for the sake of curiosity: Norway, Finland, Sweden, Belgium, Italy, Germany, Austria, Spain, the Basque and Catalan provinces of Spain, Portugal, Lithuania, Latvia, Slovakia, Canada, Mexico, the Netherlands, I really do not list many countries of the world, there is a cooperative almost everywhere. So there, too, is a much lower entry threshold for the founding of a cooperative. Otherwise, the most important argument is not how it is in another country, but that there is a National Cooperative Council, which is a association of interests of sectoral cooperatives, and members of this association of interests, from agricultural confederations to retired confederations, all of them have asked and have accepted this request from the National Cooperative Council to reduce this number. If we accept this, then, of course, the cooperative law must harmonise the rates for Monday membership, and, after the minimum number of members of the foundation is reduced to three, a lot of the ratios must be adjusted, a significant part of the amendments are linked to this and will guide this through the law. There is an amendment that applies to what is still in the cooperative law, only after there have been a lot of indications that the law-makers do not understand exactly what this so-called secondary cooperatives question should mean, we would clarify that in the law. A secondary cooperative is a cooperative of which only cooperatives are members. This is the case now, and this is particularly important in agricultural production and sales. This clarification was also requested from the National Cooperative Council, and I propose this. And the part of the bill concerning Ptk. relates to the fact that their current obligation is to hold a general meeting every year for cooperatives, as otherwise a member assembly or general meeting should be held for all economic companies, then the attendance sheet and the related orders must be submitted to the court in full to allow the court to accept registration or registration procedures otherwise. Now, there is no such obligation in cases where there is also a large number of general assemblies. Let's say there should be thousands of owners at an OTP general meeting, but there shouldn't be a attendance list or a change registration procedure or any other court-martial procedure, but rather a protocol. Of course, it is necessary to maintain the attendance list and to demonstrate to the company court that the documentation next to the attendance list confirms that the general meeting was otherwise a quorum. Today there are not few in Hungary, especially in the case of student cooperatives, and in the case of housing cooperatives, there are thousands of cooperatives. Now think about the administrative tasks of a multi-million-dollar cooperative, such as the addition of the attendance list. In reality, in fact, how should I put it, this is also handled generously by the corporate courts, because I have never seen a company court check a certificate attached to a attendance list, and it probably doesn't have the capacity to do so. Think of it as a universe of 10,000, it's almost impossible to see it there. And it is not necessary, because otherwise, if there is a dispute about this, then, of course, proceedings can be brought before the court without adding the attendance sheet, that, for example, the quorum was inadequate, and then they can be investigated, since the attendance of the general meeting must continue to be kept by cooperatives. This would therefore be a simplification in the work of cooperatives, which would be particularly helpful to large-scale cooperatives. Overall, the amendments I have tabled are not very significant, comprehensive changes in the cooperative world. Since 2010, since I took up this legislative work in the case of cooperatives, we have made a lot of amendments to the cooperative law. In this sense, the cooperative sector is also developing well in Hungary, despite the fact that, since the change of regime, only the companies with capital interests have gone forward in Hungarian public thinking, so the public limited liability company, Kft., understands that. In many cases, there is one such company with a participation interest, and even lawyers dealing with economic law are a little confused. I myself took part in a number of consultations, where I saw that there were serious disabilities here, how they did not understand the functioning of the cooperative, the world of the cooperative, and otherwise the economic performance of the cooperative sector is particularly significant. [[13.50]] It would be good if we could get there with the development of this special business form, which, let's say, in Germany or Denmark, there is no question that in certain sectors these are significant emissions, although even many in Hungary do not know that Raiffeisen is a cooperative-owned bank, or that Tesco is a cooperative-owned hypermarket. And if we didn't have communism, then the Ant-Ant is probably performing the same task in Hungary today as Tesco at the time, so that it can gain a huge share in the retail market at hypermarket level, because otherwise, at the end of the thirties, Tesco and Ant-Ant's economic performance was the same if we look at economic statistics. This was broken in half by the coercion scheme imposed by the Communists, which contradicts the fundamental idea of the cooperative movement. Honourable Members, Dear Madam President, Thank you very much for listening and for your support. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-03-94	On behalf of the government, I would like to ask Secretary of State Répássy to speak. [[For signal:]] It says yes. In that case, I'll give you the floor, please.
u2023-05-03-95	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I would just like to say very briefly that the government supports the bill and proposes that the Parliament adopt it. Thank you very much.
u2023-05-03-96	We will continue the debate with the keynote speeches. In this context, I give the floor to Mr László Vécsey, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, within a 15-minute timeframe. Here you go.
u2023-05-03-97	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, The T/3753 ahead. The general objective of the amendment is to promote business in the form of cooperatives in Hungary and to create favourable and competitive conditions for the sector. In order to strengthen the Hungarian economy, it is of particular interest, as stated in the proposal, that the form of cooperative society should benefit as many market participants as possible. These provisions support the further development and efficiency of the cooperative sector. The bill focuses on the practical needs of existing cooperatives, helping them to function more effectively than before. The amendment makes clear the particular characteristics of the cooperative and its operating principles other than those of other social enterprises. Cooperatives can be present in many areas, whether in the economic, social and environmental sectors or in promoting cultural sustainability. Dear House, In view of the provisions detailed by the rapporteur and the economic importance of the cooperative form, the Fidesz fraction supports the proposal. I would also like to ask my fellow Members to do so. Thank you for the floor, Madam President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-03-98	The lead speaker of the DK Group, Mr Ferenc David, is next. I give you the floor, please.
u2023-05-03-99	Madam President! Dear House, Thank you for the floor. Perhaps I should start with what my colleague Lajos Kósa started by saying that he has been dealing with the cooperative system for quite a long time. I've been working longer than he has: I've worked for 25 years in the SAO and the industrial cooperative system. And if you remember, Mr. Congressman, we were still working together to hustle pensioners in the public interest. I think this is important for both of us, not because it means any excuse or glory, but because we're talking about something that we both know what the point of the story is. In the beginning, I would like to start by saying that this is perhaps the simplest thing, that it is indeed not a very, very important amendment, and just as my fellow Member has not taken the time available, I will probably not prolong the story for a long time either. There is no discussion between us that the principles of the International Cooperative Association will be incorporated into the cooperative law, which I think is a perfectly normal effort, and it also seems positive, I have read the bill and the justification that they want to reduce administrative burdens and simplify the life of cooperatives. Which, on the other hand, is a problem for me, and applying it to Hungarian relations may not be appropriate, and I fear that three people are enough to form an alliance. My fellow Member knows precisely that in the case of industrial cooperatives, in the case of agricultural cooperatives, in the case of PESZs and he also mentioned housing cooperatives, I would not have said that the development of the three-person cooperative was incomprehensible. It is clear that this could then be the part concerning student cooperatives and youth cooperatives. This alone would not have knocked out my security, but the fact that the number of non-natural members of the cooperative can reach a third of the number of members does not really please me. And then it's sprung by the fact that the financial contribution can reach 35% of the capital instead of the previous 15 percent. I wouldn't be happy to say it again, and I assume that we are still great friends of cooperatives, I wouldn't be too happy if the companies in this way, to say the least, would be nestled in the cooperative system that we are protecting. On the other hand, I liked it much better when cooperatives bought up companies, because this strengthened multi-leggedness. When companies appear within cooperative property and this will be coupled with a concentration of capital and voting, it usually ends badly. I think that these relaxations are not good for the cooperative system, because the non-natural people here will sooner or later take over the cooperative, and this new regulatory element could mean that what my fellow Member has said about the cooperative is a democratic institution. In this democratic institution, control and the autonomy of the cooperative, which was almost one of the most important elements of the English cooperative principles, the Rochdale principles, will be violated. I think that if we wanted to do something about cooperatives, for example, you would be lucky, my fellow Member, if it were also to be said why Hungary's Fundamental Law does not recognise the form of cooperative, why it does not name it. So I wouldn't be tampering with the cooperative law, we both know that the cooperative is a special economic enterprise. I also call myself the real one-cent corporation, where everyone is equal and everyone votes the same. I also say that it is extremely valuable, that I believe that, thank God, there are still areas where they operate, and unfortunately, I would also like to mention where they do not work, and that the Hungarian Fundamental Law should recognise this. The other thing that my fellow Member said was that I really read the reasoning and the legislation carefully, because my heart is the same as that of my fellow Member, the confederation. He mentioned the institution of the National Cooperative Council. We both know how this works out. You're the chairman of this council, which is quite a responsibility. Now, you're saying that the National Cooperative Council has this proposal and that part of it is to reduce to three the formation of Mondays and cooperative formations... I find this strange, because, as I mentioned earlier, three-member agricultural cooperatives, three-member PES, three-member industrial cooperatives do not exist in the country. They don't exist. We both know that. I'm also afraid to tell you because I'm still a member of the SAO, and I'm also a co-operative delegate. There are no three-person PESZs in Hungary. There are not so many of them, the membership is very worn out, as we know, but nevertheless, the three main total unrealisticities are, for example, in a consumer-type cooperative, and I think also in industry. Therefore, I would say, and the fear is speaking of me, that we are talking more about the nuclearisation of the cooperative system, we are increasing its number a little by opening up the possibility of secondary cooperatives; we are increasing its number by creating a cooperative for three people; we are smuggling companies. If I put it in summary, I do not welcome it with my heart, and the Democratic Coalition will also reject this proposal because I feel and feel that it weakens the confederation power of small-laws, atomicizes the cooperative system, and provides space for all the narrower ownership of cooperative wealth, even though we both know that's not the story. [[14.00]] I'd like to confirm my bad experience with one more thing. You, as a representative and a cooperative person, should remember that about ten years ago, a very cool and very inspiring cooperative branch, the savings cooperative system, was launched in Hungary. Today, you mentioned in your comment that the cooperative law had many amendments, one of the most important of which was the amendment of the cooperative part on savings cooperatives, I was also the spokesperson of the National Savings Cooperative Association on this issue, in second place only as Secretary-General of VOSZ, and we saw this process of destroying the rural cooperative system in Hungary, destroying the bank of the countryside - the wealth was not lost, the wealth was transformed. But you know it, and I know what happened. What happened was that the membership of the cooperative, the membership of the savings cooperative, was virtually lost, and practically with the many legal changes and changes of property, it created a monster bank. By the way, the scale calculated at that time, equivalent to the private pension assets, was HUF 3000 billion, I'm telling you, it didn't disappear, it just transformed. Today we see and this can be read in any of the pro-government press, but it can also be seen and read in opposition press organisations that now this monstre bank, which ate it, excuse me for the expression, the savings cooperative assets, institutional assets, and installs cash machines in small settlements, for example, hundreds of branches in small settlements, can no longer be said as savings cooperatives. This means that this is not such a significant transformation, so I would really like to speak objectively about this issue, because my heart is very low, and the last ten years of the savings cooperative show perfectly that if they go into such a system, then the savings cooperative system in Hungary has been destroyed, membership has been lost, and if I am funny to say, even the money-lending machine has been lost. So when we go into a law and, let me say, by adjusting the proportion, capital and voting rates of companies, you put it this way, but there has been an increase in the number of non-naturals, this poses the danger and I am trying to be benevolent, but there is a great danger that some kind of erodation of the cooperative system will start here too. However, you will certainly understand this, my fellow Member, and we cannot support it. Thank you for your attention, your attention.
u2023-05-03-100	The next speaker was Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, lead speaker of the KDNP Group. I give you the floor.
u2023-05-03-101	Thank you very much. Madam President, Dear Parliament, I would only respond to Congressman Ferenc David in one sentence. If you do not question the 25-30-year-old cooperative work that Lajos Kósa is doing, then why would you submit a law that is bad for cooperatives; because you said at the beginning of your speech that you also appreciate Lajos Kósa because he worked a lot with cooperatives and considers it a matter of heart. Obviously, he will not bring a bill against this and will have an opposite effect. I understand your concern. I think it is important, after all, that if bureaucratic obstacles, excessive administration, are reduced, it is always a right step and must be fundamentally supported. Obviously, the most important objective of the bill before us, as my colleague Kósa said, is to reduce the number of members of cooperatives from week to three. With this step, cooperatives will not be encouraged to set up further regulations, but will also be encouraged to set up other market participants for whom the form of cooperative may prove to be a good solution. The bill also means a simplification and a reduction in bureaucracy for cooperatives. By the way, the current amendment follows and needs to look at those countries, such as Finland, Portugal, Spain or possibly other European cooperative rights, which are a good regulatory solution, where your fears have been working for a long time, or perhaps they have not, and it has worked out well, and it has only generated or motivated those actors who have had this interest in these countries, where we have had this regulation longer than we have. (In the notary seat, Dániel Z. Carpathian Replaced by David Dócs.) This is not the first amendment to the cooperative law that my fellow Member Kósa is bringing to Parliament. In most of his arguments, I was here myself. I don't think you can take him away from the fact that this area is a matter of the heart. He will do everything in his power to improve the area, and he will do everything in his power to help the cooperatives. We have also discussed cooperatives of different special groups: pensioners or maternity cooperatives, and so on. I think it is right to help these cooperatives not to be overwhelmed by excessive administration, not by bureaucracy, but by helping their operation with the easiest possible regulation, and thus, of course, their participation in the Hungarian economy, because, for example, in times of war and sanctions crises, it is particularly important that all players in the economy are able to function properly and contribute to the stability of the country and to the livelihood of the people. The KDNP fraction will support this bill. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-03-102	Our next speaker is the lead speaker of the MSZP Group, Mr Sándor Szabó. Here you go.
u2023-05-03-103	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, according to the proposer of the bill, the bill contains amendments that will help Hungary to make the criteria relating to the operation of cooperatives clear and understandable. At the same time, the bill also focuses significantly on the practical needs of existing cooperatives, helping cooperatives to operate more effectively and effectively than they have so far. In order to confirm the different nature of cooperative enterprises than other social enterprises, the present bill contains, as was the case, an amendment to the preamble to the law on cooperatives, with a list of international cooperative principles. In recent years, the form of cooperatives has been extended more and more widely. There are social cooperatives, student associations, pensioners' unions, and even maternity unions now. One of the things that is common in these organisations is the desire to provide members with different job opportunities at favourable tax and employment costs. The rapporteur, Mr Lajos Kósa, justifies the bill, inter alia, by the professionalism of the national transposition of international examples. On this basis, I think that Lajos Kósa is also certainly very important about the values adopted at the 1995 Manchester Cooperative Congress, such as equality, individual responsibility, democracy, justice or solidarity. However, it should also be noted or stated that, unfortunately, in the last 13 years, the country has witnessed countless cases of abuse of forms of cooperatives. A large proportion of EU funding is likely to have disappeared in the network of cooperatives rather than actually providing real and actual assistance to disadvantaged people in many cases. You can only allow two cases at the level of mention. We should remember that we all remember the scandal that could be linked to the name of former Fidesz Member of Parliament, Roland Mengyi, about twenty social cooperatives. But I can say a little earlier to you: also a former Fidesz Member of Parliament, former President of the National Roma Municipality, Flórian Farkas, a bridge to the world of work, where a lot of scandals also occurred, a lot of money disappeared under very serious and unclear circumstances. Since then the Ministry of Human Resources has ceased, in 2016, it stated that, in fact, this 1.6 billion EU funding should be withdrawn, withdrawn and that serious investigations have been launched on this issue. The NAV, the European Union's Anti-Fraud Office, OLAF, has also investigated and even prosecuted the EU's spent billions. [[14.10]] After seven years of investigation, however, in the absence of any evidence, this investigation into the operation of the Bridge into the world of work was terminated. It is also worth noting that in the life of the Hungarian cooperative law adopted in 2006, it has actually been amended 22 times since December 2011, which is the 23rd amendment before us. Even if, of course, there are lifelike things and obviously the world is changing around us, we often wonder why Parliament has to change the cooperative law so often. Overall, it can therefore be said, even if the intention of the rapporteur may be justified in the context of the present proposal, since it calls for the improvement and effective functioning of cooperatives to be treated with caution and reservations when it comes to amending the cooperative law in the Parliament. We will therefore adopt our position at the next time in order to support the amendment of the cooperative law in this respect. Thank you for listening.
u2023-05-03-104	The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2023-05-03-105	Madam President, Dear House, First of all, I would like to thank you for the highlight that has been made by the rapporteur. It is also very unpleasant to experience as a representative that when one and I speak of Ant-Man's cooperative as a great fan of Ant-Ant, many still associate with the humiliating and other historical processes of the violent communist-type cooperative network that certainly do not arouse pleasant memories within us. So I'm glad this cut-off is done. Tesco and Ant may have had similar output volumes in the thirties, but then the storms of history came, and I see that history has now brought up similar needs, such as that; for example, the pursuit of self-sufficiency, for example, short for long supply chains. The proposal before us, by the way, introduces international principles, which I think is good. Let's not get defensive. Let's not mess around in places where we don't have what. The other substantive amendment is to reduce to the three members the founding and, in other cases, to those who can exercise any material and legal background. The second would be easier to get involved with, but I don't want to do this for my own good. At the same time, I see that the potential influence of companies in the cooperative world has been mentioned, so that, where appropriate, it would shift into a cooperative form of a company or an economic entity in the classical sense. I wouldn't be much of a fan of this, because if someone is an economic organization, then tax accordingly and support the active ones, of course, and support the people involved in the work, but do not mix the two genres, because they are very different. I see that many of my fellow Members have been representing this world for decades, seeing perfectly what contrasts there are, say, to the profit-oriented mechanism of a company. So just for tax relief, no one can slip into the cooperative world more easily. On the other hand, I am a big fan and I can be if vulnerable groups combine their interests, work with a more favourable organisational form and tax incentives. Here, for example, the move towards mothers was particularly welcome in the middle of a demographic disaster. I am very pleased that at least on such an agenda, where this may not be what the evening RTL News and other news will deal with, not underestimating the importance of the subject, but where there is no political trouble, it is rarely on the news that at least here, during the debates, the country has been recognised several times that, yes, the country is in a demographic dive. Not only do one or two opposition groups in Parliament think so, but I think we all know that the trend shift has not happened, unfortunately it has not happened even in terms of fertility rates. Therefore, each step must be supported, supported by a dog, which supports either the flexible labour market interest of women having children, or, say, a work in rural areas in the form of a cooperative with favourable tax conditions. So in this direction, I am fully committed. I feel the same way about facilitating the work of our fellow countrymen with disabilities and promoting the possibilities of advocacy. Rather, I have a strong feeling about the proposal that this package, in itself, will not disappear the problems of the cooperative world, nor will it substantially and greatly increase the production volume of the cooperative. This is where the expression "the determining issue" was said. I would very much like it if, let's say, on the front of the food industry, all the cooperatives could produce this as impressively as possible. I am not looking forward to the trend turn of this package either, but I would like to emphasise once again that if there is nothing that would be life-threatening and make it even easier for a few cooperatives, then it is eligible. Overall, however, I would be very interested in the motivations behind the reduction to the three. We understand that it can actually facilitate bureaucratic processes, but there is a strong fear of it, and perhaps not only in me, because it has been said by many oppositions that they are typical companies, i.e. gt. organisations operating in a form that have been otherwise taxed, if they take advantage of this form, this is not necessarily good for the budget, but I would much rather see that we can operate with additional benefits for these vulnerable groups. Overall, therefore, in the coming days, during the debates, our final position on the proposal will be decided. My first emotion is clearly supportive, so we have an absolute positive impression, but let's do it in such a way that we can disperse all doubts. Thank you for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2023-05-03-106	István Apáti, the lead speaker of the group of our country. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2023-05-03-107	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, In itself, the Group of the Hungarian Movement has no problem with the inclusion in the preamble of the principles proposed or deemed appropriate by the International Confederation of Cooperatives. It is true that, in terms of this daily or annual practice alone, nothing will change either in the right or in the wrong direction, but nothing will be better in itself, but if it doesn't work, it is certainly not worth getting involved in this. Even the reduction from week to three may be justified in a benign attitude by the fact that, in cases where the number of members is not available, the start-up, laying of funds, planting of seeds may be facilitated by the adoption of such a reduction by Parliament. Obviously, it can raise suspicion that companies can gain growing, not yet majority, but stealthy influence in cooperatives. If, in terms of practice, this goes towards simplification and facilitation, so that in terms of the day-to-day life of cooperatives there will indeed be a substantial relief, relaxation, and cooperatives will not be lost in the maze of the administrative administration which is often self-destructive in Hungary, this is particularly welcome and desirable. Usually when something is promised to be simplified or shortened, it becomes more complicated, longer, and more complicated. Let's hope it's a refreshing exception. What I want to address after these eligible ideas and proposals with a sufficient critical edge is one of the particular forms of cooperatives, the issue of the artisans, or producer-selling organisations, which, by the way, is good when it comes to food hyperflationary, and there has been little talk about it so far. My fellow Members from different parties have talked about many other things, but no one has thought of them until this minute. Well, I'm trying to be careful and I'm trying to stop being carried away by anger, and I wouldn't, by chance, like to call en blog a criminal with a generalization, if any untrue generalization, a co-operative sub-type, I'm not going to do it, obviously there are rare positive exceptions to the artisans, but in particular what you can see in the fruit and vegetable sector, my fellow Members, is nothing more than a difficult way to prove that a group of price cartels and other cartels, either of consumers or producers, has a negative impact each year. The thing is, except for the rare exception, I do not generalize the workings practically by saying that the head of the carp or its management and its narrow family circle are bathed in milk and butter and honey in gold with 24 carats, and for the rest, speaking of Congressman Lajos Kósa, pardon the expression "cokie." [[14.20]] So this is roughly how the vast majority of Hungarian scientists operate. The substance of membership is virtually out of operation on a day-to-day basis. The reason I formulated this strong criticism was because I was watching Lajos Kósa's exposé. It is true that it is often difficult to control, at an extremely high number of members, to be almost uncontrollable, judge or administrator, or often to have a investigative authority on the sole of the body, who will check this itemally, so I would be more careful about the wording and rules in relation to the attendance sheets, because it is very suspicious that it has never happened in reality, or that, as it is written on the paper, there will be no members' meetings, and, where appropriate, decisions. There are not only private document counterfeitings, but also counterfeiting of authentic instruments, and other crimes which are far more serious can be committed. In fact, a very significant part of the staff member feels that it is practically a tool, a ridiculous, meaningful decision-making power and no influence, in the hands of the leaders or management of the staff. They have virtually no interest in the operation of these organisations to the slightest extent, but those who had previously entered into management from the level of production, have become owners of dough or have a dominant influence there, and within a few years have acquired extreme wealth compared to their fellow producers, with whom they were still at the same level of economic and production a few years ago. This, in my view, also has a very bad impact on the development of food prices. This alone is not the cause of food inflation, it would be a lie to say, but to raise inflation, increase inflation and affect these processes in the wrong direction, it is quite certain. So achieving simplified administration is certainly a noble objective, but not at the cost of making it easier to commit illegal acts, to convene non-existent membership meetings, to include non-existent decisions in writing, as who will deal with what happened a few weeks or months ago even in the near future. It would be worth dealing with this particular co-operative sub-type or cooperative form a little more closely. The extent to which a cooperative will be viable and how much it will stand up to the test of time is obviously economic, and since we live in Hungary, let us say that it also depends on the political background, the political background. Many cooperatives can exist on paper at the most without merit and backwind support, but in practice they cannot fulfil their original role. The fact that the current regulation, such as the ability of companies to gain influence, may have any ulterior motive, will not in itself be seen from this proposal. This will be seen from the fact that in the coming weeks, perhaps even this year, there will be other separate legislative proposals or salad-type proposals that may relate to the granting of grants, grants to be reimbursed, preferential credit schemes, to certain types of cooperatives in other laws or possibly in lower legislation. This does not seem dangerous in itself, but what is the final intention of the legislators, in my opinion, will only be revealed in the near future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-05-03-108	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I'll ask the author if you'd like to answer. [[Lajos Kósa: Yes.]] Mr Kósa points out that he wishes to respond to what has been said, and I therefore address Lajos Kósa in a 30-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2023-05-03-109	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear House, I would like to reassure you of your concerns in this debate. I know that some people understand the essence of the cooperative's operation, but a lot of people don't. Sometimes I wonder if those who understand it take into account at every moment, for example, that one of the most basic cooperative features is that it has a participation interest, which means that it is a member, a vote. So, three of them set up a cooperative, a natural person, even a natural person and, say, MOL. MOL has one vote. The other two natural persons can vote against any company without hesitation by MOL. How does economic penetration take place, even if, where appropriate, there are such unequal conditions of capital? It doesn't matter! A cooperative contribution must be made, which is the same for all members; not that it is realistic. Rather, it should be assumed that those who suggested it brought us a lifelike example: there are three young farmers who have just inherited their parents' agricultural business. Two of them continue as individual farmers, so they enter the cooperative as a natural person, they need a crop dryer and a silo, but the third person is a family business, a kft. you could come in. Why shouldn't we make that possible? And they also say that it is very difficult to enter the market, because by forming a cooperative, they cannot get seven people together. They know three. They put the money in, they use it together, everyone has a 20-50-acre economy, so they can do it. I see no danger in that, because the basic cooperative operation is a member, one vote precludes an economic company from having more than one vote in capital. So capital power doesn't play any part here. That is why, in this sense, I do not see the concern that my fellow Member David has said to be well founded. I would like to add that what you have quoted for a long time in connection with the restructuring of the savings cooperatives is none of our business. We suffered this afterwards, and we saw that the savings cooperatives, as a form of cooperative, had simply ceased. There's no such thing today. Another example, I would add, is that the Social Cooperative System is not a member of the OSZT, and is not a member of the employment cooperative, the one quoted here is the Bridge in the work-type alliances. They are neither members nor do they function in such a way that this can be synchronized with cooperative operations. And there is always a cooperative that works badly, because thousands of cooperatives operate as businesses with hundreds of thousands of members. Our entire housing law isn't right. The housing unions are very difficult to operate with a bunch of anomalies that are insane. I'll just give you one example: if someone buys a co-operative apartment but doesn't buy it new or join the housing cooperative, they can vote for the general assembly even if they are not members of the housing association. It's a legal nonsense! We owe this regulation to Gordon Bajnai. It's like someone goes to the MOL station, buys a hundred liters of gas, and then goes to the MOL assembly to vote. He's a freak. It's not normal! And that's just one, I could say a lot more. This is also the reason why so many amendments are needed, because the entire cooperative sector has experienced a run from 1990 to 2002-2005, since no one from the old type of communist cooperative model has rightly asked for them. They just couldn't legally solve the transformation law, for example, so that it could return to the original roots of the cooperative movement. No wonder, by the way, because the cooperative system at the time was very far removed from what was the original idea of confederation. The Communist cooperative has nothing to do with the original ethos and starting point of association. He acted just like communism, by the way. [[14.30]] So communist or socialist democracy means that there is no democracy. Socialist freedom of speech means that there is no freedom of speech. A socialist-type cooperative means that there is no alliance. So in that sense, he didn't get out of line. But on the other hand, of course, I can see that there are quite a few cooperatives that raise a lot of questions, and my fellow Member, Apáti, referred to this with regard to the arts. I'm just gonna keep it in brackets, and I didn't say the "coki" thing, just... because you attributed it to me. No, I didn't say that in my expo. [[Dr. István Apáti: Earlier! Somewhere else!]] But now it is completely irrelevant, because the point is that, by the way, there is a very important foundation: if the members of the cooperative are at a general meeting, a member is a vote, they cannot organise the protection of their own interests, then there is a problem, it is difficult to operate on the outside. I'm not saying, I'm sure there's a cooperative where some kind of king can take over the whole thing, but how can I put it? They are well-hungry, and some of the people, especially if they put their head on a business, must be somewhat lifelike or up-to-date, then it is very difficult for the cooperative to resolve such abuses. There are some, I might add, in general, what Mr Apáti mentioned, there are other problems in the case of surgeons, so there are not only frictions or deficiencies in the operating model, but also many times I have seen them organize in order to achieve a form of support, but they are not in their right mind to pursue that activity seriously; as long as the support money is taking place, everyone is running in thousands of directions, but it is the fault of the support system and not the idea of a cooperative. I would add, however, that, of course, the cooperative system should be further developed, as there are old forms of cooperatives, such as these forms of cooperatives created by small industrialists, and I do not see that movement raises new forces and energies. But, for example, in the spin-off or innovation field, the cooperative is a great form of company because what is typical of a company formed by spin-off or by an innovation idea from such young people? They don't actually have any money, they have a good idea, they want to organize it, there are three, four, five, six, seven, one vote is good for them, because otherwise they're relatively close, and they accept the fact that they share the amount of contribution, but they don't want someone to come in with a big capital and take it all down is an excellent idea! But those three people, that's... we went down there to open up to this sector, because, by the way, I think the cooperative is one, the XXI. It's a great form of society in the century. And by the way, the social cooperative is not to be rejected, not in the form you were talking about, but in the form that the Italian model shows, for example, where it is called, not to be afraid of the word. Christian social society. How does it work? There is a Christian community, mostly a congregation, and he is a member, and he provides a guarantee of functioning, and members of the social, Christian - social cooperative still come in and undertake to assist in the care of the elderly. And you can go in there and say that I have an elderly relative, I can't personally find a caregiver that I can pay, and I may not need someone there eight hours a day, but they go to visit, shop, talk to him, clean up, and the rest of the day, one or two hours a day, and then the cooperative fulfills this as a client who, say, has a friend, a relative who needs such care, but they are mostly related, and the cooperative provides this, and that is why we have to pay some, and the Italian state supports this. It works very well, and they can also involve people who have already gone from the labour market, for example, to other sectors. So there are good models that are worth looking at, and otherwise good examples can be taken over in the Hungarian regulatory system. Obviously, what was operated as a social cooperative in Hungary was not good, so it was just a problem, the whole structure was not good, so you can still count on... I know that in ten years, if any, this is really 23, well, is there any other way to put it? It is not a matter of the government puppets or the government puppets him, and a ministry of some kind is constantly initiating changes to the cooperative law. So, by the way, this is the work that has been specifically undertaken by individual Members, and here I can mention some Members, Gábor Bányai, who, for example, helped in this work at the time, or Kristóf Szatmáry. And if you can support the bill before us, I thank you very much, and you're welcome to discuss it later... Although the Committee on Justice is typically the owner of the cooperative law, although the Committee on Economic Affairs or the Committee on Enterprise Development might be a little more realistic in the case of its operation, because, of course, it is a law, but all the law, because we can only create rights, nothing else, but no, there are other committees. This situation also shows that this cooperative is... a sector that is, how should I put it? It's not even a little physical, but it's kind of hard for us to do with it, and we're just a little overwhelmed by this socialist past. But consider another example: the Danish pig sector. In Denmark, 12 million pigs are kept under the control of two cooperatives. All the pigs produced in Denmark are cooperatives, two cooperatives covering all of Denmark, holding the entire sector in their hands, and working well with slaughterhouses, processors, goods, points of sale, delivery service. So we have great examples of which it is worth studying, I think. Dear House, I need your support for the bill. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-03-110	I would like to inform my fellow Members that it is possible to present the amendments by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, The 2009 CLV on the protection of classified information follows. Act CXII of 2011 on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Proposal submitted by the Committee on Justice T/3676. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, President of the Committee on Justice, rapporteur on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2023-05-03-111	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Since 2012, the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information has ensured the protection of personal data and freedom of information in Hungary. In this context, it may carry out a number of official procedures, including secret supervision procedures. The authority shall monitor the adequacy of the procedures used and, if it considers it necessary to amend the law, initiate it with the legislator. This amendment is also based on the practical experience and suggestions of the Authority. T/3676. The primary objective of the amendment to the Act on the Protection of Classified Data and the Amendment to the Act on the Right of Information Self-determination and Freedom of Information is to allow NAIH to carry out its procedure of supervision of confidentiality as widely as possible in order to complete the protection of fundamental rights. The declared purpose of the secrecy authority procedure is to ensure that the right to knowledge and dissemination of tasks of general interest guaranteed by the Fundamental Law is properly respected. [[14.40]] In this way, the authority may examine whether the rating holder has acted in accordance with the relevant legislation or, if not, it may call on the rating holder to change or terminate the rating accordingly. In its decisions, the Constitutional Court has repeatedly stated that it is for the legislator to ensure that a possible data rating applies only to data for which classification is really unavoidable and that no unnecessary classification is made. In the case-law of the Authority, the question of how the authority can conduct the confidentiality monitoring procedure when the procedure actually concerns data with a repeated classification, i.e. if the previously prepared classified data is included in the data under investigation and no additional data requiring own rating is generated. Ladies and Gentlemen, The proposal addresses this regulatory deficiency by making it possible to carry out the procedure against the repeater of the rating label. This is complemented by the amendment of the legal consequences of the procedure. In addition, it is necessary to amend the Act on the Protection of Classified Data in order to ensure that the obligation to notify also exists in the case of a repeated rating, ensuring that any changes are made to all controllers. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, I ask you to support the bill tabled by the Committee on Justice in order to ensure effective application of the law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-03-112	On behalf of the government, I give the floor to Secretary of State Répássy Robert. Here you go.
u2023-05-03-113	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Honourable Members, The government supports the bill and recommends it to the Parliament for adoption. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-03-114	Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Nagy, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2023-05-03-115	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The purpose of the bill before us is the 2009 CLV on the protection of classified information. Act CXII of 2011 on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information. The National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information should introduce an amendment to Act No 33 in order to enable the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information to carry out the procedure of secrecy under Chapter 33 of the Act on the right of self-determination of information and freedom of information in order to complete the protection of fundamental rights, as my fellow Member has said. The National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information has indicated to the National Judicial Committee on the proposed legislation: in its operational practice, it has encountered a situation where a request for data in the public interest was made for data contained in a document with a so-called repeated classification mark and, in respect of such data, it has not been able to carry out the confidentiality monitoring procedure, taking into account that, according to the interpretation of the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, the confidentiality supervision procedure can only be carried out against the examiner, because it cannot be subject to the re-certification, since the purpose of the secrecy authority procedure is that the Fundamental Law VI. The right to access and disseminate data of general interest provided for in Article 3 (3) may be properly exercised in order to enable the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information to examine whether the rating has been carried out in accordance with the laws applicable to the classification of national classified information. The National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information may call on the rating holder to change or terminate the rating accordingly if the regulatory deficiency needs to be addressed by allowing the procedure to be carried out against the repeater of the rating marking. In this context, according to the bill, the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information could, as a legal consequence, conclude that the classification of national classified information was not legally established and, in this case, would call on the rating officer to change the unlawful status by appropriate measures. In addition, the 2009 CLV on the protection of classified information is necessary. In addition to the obligation to notify in the event of cancellation or change of the rating, the obligation to notify the repeated rating is also appropriate, in order to ensure that any changes are made to all controllers. It should be pointed out that the proposal would also allow the suspension of the procedure in specific cases which fall within the competence of another body or person or, without any other decision or procedure of the National Data Protection and Freedom of Information Authority which is closely related to that case, the case in question cannot reasonably be decided. This is because there may be a case in which the outcome of the procedure may depend on the validity and legality of the rating, the decision of which is not possible within the framework of the procedure for the supervision of the confidentiality of the repeated rating, so that the National Data Protection and Freedom of Information Authority may, in this case, decide to suspend the procedure for the duration of another separate procedure on the legality of the rating. Once this has been completed, the suspension of the procedure for repeated certification may be terminated and the procedure may be resumed. The bill also provides for a transitional provision for the new, extended legislation to be applied in ongoing procedures, in order to ensure that freedom of information is enforced as much as possible and that the rights of data seekers are guaranteed. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Based on what has been said, it can be concluded that T/3776. Legislative amendment No 33 is necessary in order to allow the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information to carry out the procedure for the supervision of secrets under Chapter 33 of the Act on the right of self-determination of information and freedom of information as widely as possible in order to complete the protection of fundamental rights. In view of what has been said, I would ask the honourable Members to discuss and adopt the bill tabled by the Committee on Justice. The Fidesz Group supports the adoption of the proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-03-116	The lead speaker of the DK Group will be László Sebian-Petrovsk. You have the floor.
u2023-05-03-117	Thank you very much. Dear House, If we lived in a normal country, then in discussing such a case, that is, when we talk about the storage of certain data, the provision, supervision and handling of all kinds of procedures in relation to information classified as confidential, how and which authority or agency is responsible for what procedure, what deadlines, so if we were talking about this type of thing, then this could also be an objective, professional type of conversation; at least I could imagine this. Then we could talk about the fundamental professional problems of this proposal, such as the fact that this certain procedure of secrecy that has already existed has not been so complexly regulated so far, it has not been possible to suspend, for example, this procedure; if we now read this proposal well to the government, then from now on, Attila Péterfalvi himself will be able to suspend it. So, it would be possible to continue this type of professional conversation, that it has equivalent guarantees incorporated into the bill, that it is well regulated, that it is certainly in very good hands in the way it is proposed; and now the good hands in an ideal country, I would say, not in a political sense, but in a professional sense, and then it would be possible to have this kind of conversation between the walls of the House. [[14.50]] That is precisely the problem, that is not what this debate is about now and here in Hungary in 2023, and that is not what so many debates are about. In this country, thanks to the Orbán regime, they have been building a democracy in its appearance for 13 years, but in fact an authoritarian regime. It's practically built up. There are a thousand manifestations of this, and there will still be a debate before us today in which it will be possible that the same fellow Members, who are sitting in front of me, will hear it from me. So, a regime was built, a system was built, and it was a part of this authoritarian regime, one of the first steps of its creation on the part of Fidesz, to try to extend its scope in every way after the 2010 election victory, one leg of which was to occupy institutions, authorities and offices created for objective or independent purposes. Of course, I understand that they have transformed, reorganized, and put leaders at the forefront of these, who are Fidesz's favourites, Fidesz' party soldiers, Fidesz's policy. That's exactly what happened to the Data Protection Authority. The Data Protection Authority and its leader, Attila Péterfalvi, are therefore not independent leaders of an independent agency in Hungary today, in 2023, but is a servant of Fidesz's policy, clearly and documented. What do I mean, what shows this? It shows that when a data protection, data management type case arises in the public, in which the government or Fidesz is involved, and apparently provides data to the government on Fidesz's propaganda steels, or Fidesz uses them in such a way that they are clearly, in an exact manner, contrary to the laws that otherwise exist in the country, there is no NAIH investigation in these cases, or if anyone complains, it is the result of a long, meaningless investigation, and at the end of the finding that I kiss, nothing has happened, it is possible to go home. There's a series of cases like this, let me just mention the Pegasus case. It is here, we have known for years that the Fidesz and the government have probably installed a program from Israel, and they have been monitoring, listening, some reports suggesting that there are hundreds of people, journalists, politicians, backgrounds, and that after a brief investigation, Attila Péterfalvi found that nothing had happened here. This is what we heard from Attila Péterfalvi on the Judicial Committee when he kept his annual report. He was almost the one who was outraged at us asking him what had happened in the Pegasus case. So, in a case that clearly started the government's competence, there has been a clear violation of the law, the Data Protection Authority and its head have seen nothing to do and see. When the opposition does anything, whether in campaign or out of campaign, either sign collecting, referendum initiative on the ground or at national level, online or offline, so on paper, no matter what we talk about, Attila Péterfalvi always feels the urge to appear in public and says to himself that this is not right. This is also the case if no NAIH notification is made, no one announces to the Data Protection Authority that any problems have occurred here, and this is what the Head of the Data Protection Authority does if he does not have any information about what he is talking about. He does not seek out actors, parties, politicians, what is really happening here, he simply makes a statement. We have had several of these cases, I can tell you this for a long time, but the point is that in the work of the Data Protection Authority, the course lies with the governing parties, so it is free for them, and for the opposition, opposition representatives, parties should not do things, collect or use data. Now, in this situation, when we can clearly establish, on the basis of concrete examples, that it has been established for a long time that the NAIH, the Data Protection Authority and its leader are putting the intention of the governing parties and Fidesz into practice, and acting as the leader of NAIH, well, in this situation, in relation to such a proposal, which is before us, in which we would install new powers to Attila Péterfalvi, and, in addition, according to the news, or according to the proposal, he himself suggested that this be the case, in such a situation, an opposition party, or at least DK, can do nothing but say nothing but wait for me to say no, never, ever! We don't approve of that, we don't vote for that, we don't support that, we protest against that. It cannot be that in a country where, at the time of this government, in the last 13 years, there have been attempts by government to hide all kinds of government data, information, contracts and important projects, and there are many examples of this, Paks II, through the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, there have been a series of major government investments in which the government is doing everything to prevent data, public data, public interest data being avoided, and in such a type of operation and governance, to expect the opposition to vote for further functions for and support the Data Protection Authority supervising these practices. Obviously, you do not mean this, my fellow Members, and I must say that, for both professional and political reasons, this proposal cannot be supported, and therefore DK will vote against this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2023-05-03-118	The lead speaker of the KDNP Group, Imre Vejkey, is next. I give you the floor, please.
u2023-05-03-119	Madam President, Thank you for the floor. Obviously, I do not wish to repeat what has been said in my expo, but I would like to stress that the main purpose of the amendment is to allow NAIH to carry out its secrecy procedure as widely as possible in order to complete the protection of fundamental rights by amending the law on the protection of classified data and the Act on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information. I believe that this can also be supported by a number of opposition groups. The Fidesz faction has said that it supports me, I will say this on behalf of the KDNP faction, but we have just heard the statement by Mr László Sebian-Petrovszki, Vice-President of the Committee on Justice, on behalf of DK, who said that they do not support this proposal. What really upsets me is not that the Committee on Justice itself is the author here, that no technical argument has been made, only a political argument, or an extremely unworthy attack by the Data Protection Authority and its leader. Therefore, I believe that this must be corrected, and it must be said that, yes, NAIH and its leader are an independent organisation in Hungary, with an independent leader. I think that we can be proud that Hungary is a rule of law and that these organisations, such as the NAIH, which has been mentioned several times here, are not by accident... and I am sorry that this proposal was primarily brought to mind by Mr DK, the NAIH and this Pegasus case, and not the lines that are written on paper in this respect. [[15.00]] So what I can tell you is that T/3676. I ask you to reconsider your position and support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-05-03-120	The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, Mr Zoltán Sas, is next. Here you go.
u2023-05-03-121	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, It is always gratifying if a bill is intended to remedy, correct, or amend, the shortcomings actually raised by the case-law, on the basis of the indications of the law enforcement. That is what I see in this proposal, although I will also mention in my speech what could have been added to this proposal. As Chairman of the National Security Committee of the National Assembly, it is very important for me that the work of the Committee be transparent and visible within certain limits. This means that everyone can get to know as widely as possible the data that the body has received during its orientation. It is also consistent with the practice of the Constitutional Court to apply data ratings to data of public interest and public interest only to data for which classification is indeed unavoidable on the basis of the public interest demonstrating that they are classified. This will also require a means of redress that will allow the public to know the data blocked by means of a non-legal rating. This bill contains related amendments. I would like to point out that it re-regulates the provisions on the possible content of the decision taken in the proceedings of the secrecy authority, which allows the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information to examine the nomination and the legality of its repetition. The Authority may, as a consequence, conclude that the classification of national classified information has not been established and in that case may call on the rating holder to take the appropriate action, i.e. to remove the marking of the illegally used classification from the document and to remedy the unlawful status. Many are of the opinion that the government or its institutions often hold back illegal data. We don't have to go far, it's not a long time since the lawsuit on motorway concessions, where the Metropolitan Court found that the National Concession Office couldn't hide the conditions under which it gave the motorway concession to the winning group for 35 years. The latest case relates to fertility clinics, where the press asked for contracts with purchased clinics in public data request, but refused their request for data based on encryption. Convincing both the press and I that it is very difficult for these contracts to contain data that meet the criteria for classified information. And speaking of data and public opinion, when amending the Freedom of Information Act, I would have liked the amendment of the information law to be included in the proposal, as requested by Attila Péterfalvi, President of NAIH, and concerned extending the scope of those who were required to be published in the Central Information Public Data Register to include local and ethnic authorities. This amendment would result in more than HUF 5 million in budget support from them or from domestic or European Union funds, supplies, works, service orders, sale of assets, asset recovery, transfer of property or property rights, and concessions, or payments for non-basic tasks being made to local and national authorities. I think we can do a lot with that in the interests of transparency. The community of Jobbik-Conservatives believes that access to information is a fundamental right in a normal Hungary. I would like to point out to the government that ensuring the free flow of information and access to public data is a state task. There are surveys that say that Hungary is unfortunately one of the most corrupt Member States in the European Union. Public disclosure of public interest data is one of the most effective means of eliminating corruption. In a normal Hungary, the government guarantees privacy, the protection of personal data, while at the same time ensuring access to information about its operation and management, and only in the final case retains information. We hope that we will soon reach this state here in Hungary as well. We will present a proposal to amend the proposal and then decide on its eligibility. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Ander Balázs applauds.]]
u2023-05-03-122	The lead speaker of our country's group, Novák Előd. I give you the floor.
u2023-05-03-123	Madam President, thank you very much for giving me the floor. Dear Parliament, The proposal to amend the law on the protection of classified data is quite incomplete, as it does not remedy, for example, the amazing situation that certain documents of the Parliament cannot be accessed, let alone by a parliamentary representative, but either by an entire faction or by a legitimate party in parliament on an independent list, of course, that is the Hungarian Movement. This is what has also been excluded from the meetings of the National Security Committee with the votes of the pro-government majority, although as a representative of our country, for example, I have successfully passed the national security screening. Only representatives and members of the Committee of the MSZP and Jobbik may participate in the encrypted deliberations outside the governing parties. It was also on the day of the meeting that they leaked the information that was good for them to the Hungarian National Government, so recently I also filed a complaint with Btk. 265. the use of classified information within the meaning of Article 305 of the Treaty and Article 305 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. As a result of suspicion of abuse of office within the meaning of Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) At the beginning of the parliamentary term, our country primarily asked for the seat of the President of the National Security Committee, and after not being granted by the pro-government representatives, the national radical party held at least one seat in the committee, but did not receive it either. We also respected this, of course. Therefore, the Parliamentary Act 40. Pursuant to Article 4 of the Act of Accession of the Republics of the Republic of Hungary, which are not members of the Commission, he asked for my participation as a member of the Defence Committee as a member of the National Security Check, but the members of the Government voted against my intention to participate in the closed session without justification, thus excluding a party admitted to Parliament on a separate list of members of the Commission's information. After that, I think it was particularly unscrupulous to leak certain data from the closed session to the Hungarian nation, which, for example, wrote on the day of the meeting that the committee had ordered a secret service investigation into the foreign campaign support of the left-wing parties. This wasn't so boring news at the time, it was exclusive information, even non-public information. In any case, according to the Hungarian Movement, the campaign financing violation recognised by Péter Márki-Zay and the role of Facebook would also be considered in full publicity, since the interference of foreign interest groups with the Hungarian elections also poses a national security risk. Of course we should explore the other side of the CÖF-CEKA or Follow us 2022 Kft. and similar fronts of their billion-dollar campaign spendings and resources. As a result of our objection, these encryptions have been partially dissolved, but unfortunately, to this day, the operation of the Parliament is still characterised by bloated encryption. Not only are they encrypting, but they also put this stamp on amazing things that are not public, classified data. For example, I asked the Minister of Defense how long the Covid strike would be mandatory in the army, and how many soldiers were fired due to inoculation in the midst of a shortage of numbers, according to the answer: secret. Or how much do our NATO roles cost? Budgetary expenditure and question and item, for example, the obscenity in Afghanistan ended in a ugliness of failure. The answer is, they won't tell me because it's classified. How many Hungarian soldiers have been sent to serve in foreign countries around the world? The answer is that it's classified. It's absurd, by the way, that we wouldn't know that. It's so absurd that the Fidesz president of the Defense Committee, when I said this last time, told me what I was talking about, even lying, I should know by heart, not only that it's public information, but I should also know by heart, as a member of the National Assembly's Defense Committee, how many soldiers serve. Well, the Fidesz President of the National Assembly's Defence Committee is so out of the picture, so I was forced to quote the Minister of Defence's reply to one of my written questions this year, saying, I quote, that in response to his question about the number of Hungarian soldiers serving abroad, I would like to inform you that it is Hvt. 15. Paragraph 1 of Section 1 shall not constitute public data. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, [[15.10]] And how many times and how many times I've been given this answer, what this rubber paragraph can be put on, this absurd, this self-conscious thing that actually works for certain members of the government, who are avoiding their obligation to respond in this way, this is how they're sweeping off their obligation. I do not think that this bill will remedy this problem either. The simple aim of the bill on the agenda is simply to resolve a problem of law enforcement, to make it clear that the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, in the case of a rating received, can also carry out a procedure of confidentiality against a repeater of the rating marking, and to amend the law on the protection of classified data with the necessary procedural rules, which, therefore, does not provide a remedy for more comprehensive problems, the Fidesz practice of encryption, so I think that this law remains quite incomplete. I hope that sooner or later we can put an end to the practice of excluding not only a parliamentary representative, but a faction, a political force in parliament on an independent list from a Parliamentary committee at such a level that it is not only a vote of speech or, in particular, a vote of opinion, but it is not at all granted in this term, by the way, in vain that I have asked for this in previous documents. Sooner or later, I think it must be clearly put to an end unless you wish to roll this unacceptable encryption practice for decades, like the agents' lists. Thank you for your attention.
u2023-05-03-124	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Welcome, fellow Members. Would anyone else like to comment on the agenda? [[No signal.]] As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I give the floor to President Imre Vejkey, President of the Committee on Justice, who wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor.
u2023-05-03-125	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, thank you for the government's supportive words and for the support of Fidesz-KDNP. I would ask the opposition groups that I have already said here, Mr László Sebian-Petrovszki, on behalf of DK, to convince his group that this bill is, in particular, forward-looking and worthy of support. And I'm asking the faction of Jobbik and our country, because the Jobbik faction said they'd think about it one way or another. On the part of the Group of Mi Hazak, on the part of Mr President Novak, on the other hand, there was an insult to him in the Committee on Defence and in the Committee on National Security, and since this bill does not remedy the injury, if I understand it correctly, which I understand him there, he thought he did not; but the purpose of this bill is not that I do not want to remedy the injury, the alleged or real offense, but this has another purpose, and I ask you to consider, on this basis, that the objective that this bill is intended to achieve is, on the basis of the practical experience of the President of the Authority, its forward-looking or not. I think that if you look at this proposal, you will be able to make the decision, professionally speaking, to be forward-looking. Obviously, there are other decisions that can be made politically, but professionally, it is that they are forward-looking. So I ask for your support, and thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-03-126	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your answers. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill to amend the laws on the subject of justice until closure. The government referral is T/3776. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Répássy, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2023-05-03-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, The bill you have in your hands contains amendments to a number of laws on the subject of justice. These legislative amendments are typically combined with the common goal of promoting the application of law based on the practical experience of the past period, so that laws fit in with changing social, organisational and technical conditions, as well as ensuring legal coherence. The bill amends the law on criminal, criminal and criminal proceedings and enforcement, as well as the law on notaries, judicial experts, victim assistance, legal assistance and a number of civil and copyright legislation. In addition to the above, the bill makes corrections to certain laws, such as the Law on Probation Procedures, the Law on notary non-court proceedings or the Law on order procedures for payment. Allow me to explain in more detail the planned changes to each law. Mr President, Dear House, First of all, I would like to highlight the following in relation to the amendments to the bill on the subject of criminal law. The new prison code adopted in 2013 has put the system for the execution of imprisonment on a new basis, with a greater role in the complex risk analysis and management system based on individualisation, a progressive approach and adapted to the sentenced person. However, on the basis of the implementation and professional experience of the last ten years, the time has come for further improvement of the system. According to the bill, the degrees of imprisonment are maintained, so it remains assured that, in the course of the punishment, the court will assess the physical weight of the crime and the danger to the society of the perpetrator. On the basis of the bill, however, the emphasis on implementation degrees will be shifted, and in the future it will be relevant to the initial classification of prisoners. At the same time, as a guarantee element, the amendment is an obstacle to the most stringent, prison-grade convict being the most favourable, while the mildest, tooth-grade inmate can be placed in the strictest category. The current rules make it difficult to make effective use of the prison organisation's resources by enforcing rigid separation rules according to degrees. On the basis of the bill, the so far, essentially nine-stage regime would be replaced by a more flexible system of categories with five categories, which would also respond to the security and detention risks of prisoners, which are less binding on the separation rules. Within the category system, the prison organisation can enforce its own professional-based approach even better. The credit system between categories facilitates the treatment and reintegration of prisoners by requiring specific performance from prisoners in order to move forward, not only passive, accepting behaviour. After the initial classification, the sentenced person may collect credits and may be placed in a more favourable category or, in the event of a loss of points, re-list in the category. The involvement of the sentenced person in the credit system in the conduct, cooperation and reintegration activities will be assessed. This motivational system strengthens the responsibility of prisoners, makes them interested in maintaining the order of implementation and implementing the reintegration plan. The bill pays particular attention to ensuring that the legislation contains adequate guarantees, but does not unnecessarily increase the burden of prison judges. The purpose of the amendment is also to transfer the necessary clarifications to the legislation concerned as a result of the revision of the Europol Regulation in June 2022. This amendment is set out in Article 4 of the Regulation. Paragraph 1 is supplemented by a new point (t), according to which Europol may propose that Member States add to the Schengen Information System information alerts for third-country nationals in the interest of the European Union. [[15.20]] Member States may do so within their discretion and on the basis of the verification and analysis of those data. The purpose of the amendment is to designate the bodies responsible for examining and submitting the information alert proposed by Europol. The Europol Regulation is a new 18a. It also provides for the processing of personal data in support of criminal investigations, on the basis of which Europol may process data which do not fall under Article II of the Regulation to support a specific investigation. in the categories set out in Annex II to this Regulation. This processing is subject to specific requests by the Member State to Europol to support the investigation. The remaining provision through the amendment provides a sufficient legal basis for compliance with the above provisions of the Europol Regulation. In addition, Article 4 ( 5) of the Europol Regulation has been supplemented by the possibility for Europol staff to provide operational support to the competent authorities of the Member States when carrying out investigative measures on request. This support may in particular take the form of facilitating cross-border exchange of information, providing forensic and technical support. Europol staff may be present in the implementation of those measures but shall not have the power to carry out investigative measures. The bill establishes the legal basis for the operational support provided by Europol in the Law on Criminal Procedure. Dear House, In recent years, there has been a significant increase in the number of prisoners of foreign nationality in Hungary, which is a significant burden for prison institutions. In the case of foreign nationals with adequate residence rights and family ties, in particular foreign nationals, the rules on legal assistance in international criminal matters allow the execution of the sentence of imprisonment to be transferred to the State of residence of the sentenced person in order to facilitate the reintegration of the sentenced person into society. The bill harmonises the procedural rules for the transfer of prison sentences on the basis of legal feedback, avoiding unnecessary administrative burdens and simplifying them, thus contributing to the effectiveness of the transfer of imprisonment. All these objectives are the EU law, the national security law, the prison law and the Be. require amendments to certain of its provisions. Finally, the part of the bill concerning criminal law also amends the law on criminal proceedings. The amendment aims, on the one hand, to promote the use of language for those entitled to be present in the procedural act. The new provisions therefore support the proper organisation of procedural acts and allow authorities to involve in interpretation tasks helpers who cannot be considered as interpreters in the procedural sense, but who, in the confidence of the participating person, are flexible in supporting the exercise of their rights in criminal proceedings. In complex criminal matters requiring the execution of a number of procedural acts at the same time, the case law raised the need to seek support from a specialised body of the investigating authority capable of simultaneously carrying out several procedural acts across the country without the personal reorganisation of the investigating official staff. The status of this body is most similar to that of the investigating authority responsible for the recovery of assets in that it is only entitled to carry out other procedural acts in case of non-delaying in the request and is therefore largely limited in autonomy. The body may subsequently be designated in a separate act, the bill contains the necessary rules on the part of the body in criminal proceedings. Finally, the amendments concerning Be. extend the scope of the simplified review procedure. The purpose of this bill is to ensure that when the final judgment is handed down by the Btk. In violation of kogens' provision, there will be a completely clear and unambiguous error that can be corrected without being charged to the Supreme Court. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to mention a few points regarding the private or judicial aspects of the bill. The amendment of the Law on notaries aims to clarify the application of the law, the feedback of the practice, especially on the basis of the proposals of the Hungarian National notary Chamber. For example, at a statutory level, it is noted that the notary is only obliged to provide legal information in the course of his or her involvement in legal transactions and that there is no obligation to provide information on the technical, economic, financial and other content of the transaction. In view of the public interest in dealing with cases on a continuous basis, the bill also limits the possibility of transferring the notary to another seat within three years of the appointment. Further amendments are also essential to ensure coherence between legislative provisions and to achieve simpler, customer-friendly administration. The amendment of the Law on certain non-court proceedings by notaries, as amended by the Law on notaries, contains provisions which help to interpret the law in the light of practical feedback and to reduce the administrative burden on notaries. As an example, the transmission of data for statistical purposes from individual notaries is transferred from the Register of Contemporary Declarations and the Register of the Marriage and Life Partnership Treaties to the duties of the Hungarian National Chamber of Notaries. The amendment of the law on the order for payment procedure also clarifies the rules in force, taking into account the professional position of the Hungarian National Chamber of Notaries, on the basis of the demands raised in practice. Such clarification concerns the mandatory content of the request for a payment order and the payment order issued by the notary, thereby reducing the scope of the information to be indicated by the customers, while increasing the information to be read from the order for payment. The Law on the Probation Procedure is added to the local government's provision on legal succession, which is consistent with the amendment of the Civil Code which will enter into force on 1 July 2023. The amendment also clarifies the rules on appeals in order to ensure that the right of appeal is effectively fulfilled. By amending the Act on Credit Institutions and Financial Enterprises, the bill facilitates cooperation with the Member States of the European Union, simplifying the process of data reconciliation with the authorities conducting the legacy procedure in another Member State. Dear Parliament, The bill also amends the laws on company disclosure, court proceedings and winding-up, as well as the court records of civil society organisations and the related procedural rules, which are linked to the eleventh amendment of Hungary's Fundamental Law. If an organisation amends the word "courage" on its behalf, the procedure for registering the name change shall be subject to shorter time limits of administration than the time limits for general administration. The law on debt settlement for natural persons, i.e. the amendment of the private bankruptcy law, lays down provisions facilitating the conditions for entry into the procedure. Furthermore, the legislative objective is to bring the private bankruptcy law to government regulation level by setting limits for which inflation monitoring will be more flexible in the future by means of legislation at a lower level than the law. These include, for example, setting the cost limits necessary for the day-to-day management of the debtor and the threshold for the housing of the debtor. All these will be contained in implementing regulations in the future. The amendment also introduces rules to promote the internal coherence of the law, contains administrative facilitations and creates consistency with the changes in related legislation in the meantime. [[15.30]] Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, In addition to the laws already mentioned, the bill amends the law on legal aid and also the law on the assistance of victims of crime and the law on public compensation. As a result of the amendments to the legal assistance system, victims of trafficking in human beings, as victims of terrorism, become eligible for legal assistance regardless of their income and property status. In addition, the amendments concern the receipt of and removal from the register of legal assistants and cases of termination of the service contract, tightening up the consequences of disciplinary dismissal of lawyers acting as legal aid providers. The deadline for submitting an application for immediate financial assistance for victim assistance will be clarified in order to address the humane and empathetic situation of the victim. On the basis of experience, the eight-day deadline previously available was not sufficiently flexible to take into account restrictive circumstances that would prevent enforcement of claims on time. In many cases, the crisis situation occurs beyond eight days after the offence or the offence against property, for example after long hospitalisation due to the crime, which should be taken into account in the calculation of the time limit. The amendment also provides that emotional assistance to the victim is explicitly included in the application for the services of the psychologist. Dear House, The amendment to the Law on Judicial Experts contributes to keeping up-to-date data on the list of judicial experts as a public register. The authority managing the register may check the details of the judicial experts registered there, as specified in the law, on its own initiative, by requesting data from the personal data and address register, which facilitates contact with experts, thereby helping them to work. In this context, it is also necessary to amend the law on the registration of citizens' personal data and address. The document on the taking of an oath of members of the judicial experts' bodies may be certified by electronic signature on the basis of the amendment, thereby reducing the administrative and logistical burden on the parties to the oath and the Ministry of Justice. Dear House, In the area of international judicial cooperation, the proposed amendment facilitates the implementation of child maintenance fees in Hungary for non-EU states that undertake mutual cooperation in child maintenance matters on the basis of the comprehensive, modern Hague Convention adopted in 2007. The Hungarian translation of these child maintenance decisions in foreign states does not need to be submitted for implementation in Hungary according to the bill, as is the practice within the EU, it is sufficient to translate the Hungarian translation of an extract prepared by a foreign court on a single form. This will reduce the cost of enforcing child maintenance needs. Mr President, Dear House, The purpose of the amendment of the patent protection law on inventions is to involve the Minister for Supervision of the National Intellectual Property Office in the preparatory work and opinion process of IPR legislation. The amendment of the law on unfair market conduct and non-compete law mainly contains clarification and technical provisions, mainly aimed at strengthening the internal coherence of the law by standardising the thresholds for the mandatory notification of the concentration. In addition, the amendments make it clear that a copy of all judgments relating to the application of antitrust rules should be sent to the Commission in order to comply with Union legal requirements. The bill also amends the law on the joint management of copyright and copyright rights. With regard to the procedure for approving tariffs for representative collecting societies, on the basis of practical experience resulting from the application of the procedure, the amendment introduces the obligation to carry out an impact assessment in respect of tariffs containing new or significant changes, while respecting the basic private nature of the tariffs, it also allows the suspension of the approval procedure based on the consensus of the stakeholders involved in the procedure. The amendments should, in principle, ensure the validity and effective enforcement of tariffs. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen. As I have already indicated, in addition to the above amendments, the bill makes minor but important corrections to certain laws. Let me also highlight some of these amendments. In order to ensure consistency between legislation, it has become necessary to amend the rules of the Civil Code on changes in parental supervision. Since 1 January 2022, the court has, in the interest of the child, at the request of one of the parents, decided to exercise parental supervision jointly even if the parents cannot agree on this. The amendment of the Civil Procedure Act is related to the standardisation of legal instruments related to the subject of pre-leading, of a technical nature, and to the coherence of these laws. The BM Regulation, which contains basic rules for the implementation of the pre-execution procedure, which should also apply to civil and administrative court proceedings, will no longer provide for the obligation to provide information on the reimbursement of pre-execution expenses and its cost elements. It is further necessary to provide for this in the sectoral legislation concerned. Accordingly, the rules on the content of subpoenas are added to the civil procedure, which should also be applied under the rules referring to administrative proceedings. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, In conclusion, allow me to reiterate the following. The bill seeks to incorporate the needs that have arisen in practice into the provisions of the laws concerned, also supported by professional representation bodies. The amendments also contribute to adapting the laws to changing technical, economic and social conditions and to maintaining the consistency of the various laws. I therefore call on this House to support the bill in the current and later debates. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-03-128	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr János Kiss, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2023-05-03-129	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The bill before us, as Mr. Secretary of State said in his exposé, does indeed concern a number of laws on judicial matters; I have counted 34 to be exact. Therefore, I do not wish to refer to all the laws concerned, not only because of the great number of them, but also because the Secretary of State mentioned in the expo all the amendments to the law which constitute a substantive change, and do not refer merely to word use or technical clarification. I think that the image has been completed by the expozé, so I would just like to recall and highlight again the most important nodes of the presentation. Let me start by saying that the most significant change in the law on the enforcement of sentences is being amended, there is a comprehensive reform for prisoners in order to achieve the optimal criminal policy objective. In order to address the directions and solutions of correct and socially successful prison execution, we cannot bypass the question of, of course, what is the purpose of the punishment in criminal law and the related purpose of the enforcement of punishment. We are not participants in a university criminal law seminar now, but this question is still relevant if we want to evaluate the relevant bill. By its natural sense of rights, the lay citizen would say that the purpose of the punishment is to punish those who have committed a crime, thereby giving a proportionate response to the violation of the law by the force of society. If we recall the hundreds of years of debates of criminal lawyers, we can see that the lay citizen is not far from the truth, but, as they say, he only opens one part of the truth. Let me quote István Bibó, who says that the specific moral importance of criminal law is given by a single issue of central importance, which includes all the other ethical aspects, and this is a question of the meaning and the nature of the punishment. [[15.40]] The meaning of punishment can be understood in the above, the lay way, which criminal law is prepared to take over from ethics and, as such, of course, does not require certification. On the other hand, there is another concept of punishment, according to which punishment is a legal institution, the meaning of which is given by its social function and social purpose. Bibo also writes that punishment is an ethical concept of retribution of sin. Retribution and reciprocation with evil are not justified, or at least outside the law: the restoration of world harmony, the atonement of the sinner, the achievement of the moral public conviction of mankind. Other theories examining punishment see the meaning of punishment in the fact that the purpose can be to protect society from the crime, that is to prevent further crimes by means of punishment. So the punishment can affect either the criminal, the criminal, as prevention, or the other members of society as "generate prevention." In this setting, the punishment is not retaliation, it is the defence of society, and the main aim is therefore to prevent new crimes. All this legal discussion was necessary only to point out that the bill deals with the full scientific mandate and necessity of this kind of reregulation of prison execution, since the very important aim of criminal policy is prevention, prevention, and prevention will only be successful if the social integration skills of the inmates are not impaired during the period of prison execution, but on the contrary, we improve it. This is the purpose of the new legislation. Let's see what's going on. Indeed, as Minister of State has said, the establishment of imprisonment in prisons, prisons and prisons for a long time has determined the Hungarian criminal law practice, thus expressing the physical weight of the crime committed and the danger to the society inherent in the person of the perpetrator. However, in implementation, the professional grouping of prisoners and thus optimal prevention, optimal crime prevention, is made difficult by this old structure. In the current regulatory system, there are three additional sub-levels of execution for the three degrees of imprisonment per grade. Thus, there are nine categories in total, but the separation rules of degrees are rigid and they cannot react flexibly enough to the behaviour and behaviour of prisoners. In the new system of classification, a simpler, five-stage and most importantly, a class system which can be passed back and forth under the legislation will be the basis for the enforcement of imprisonment. The category system, which also responds to the security and detention risks of prisoners, enables the staff of the prison organisation to maintain an effective position in order to maintain the security of detention and also helps to optimise the use of prison facilities. As a result of the new classification system, the professional aspects of the prison organisation will have a stronger role to play in determining the execution of the prison sentence. The execution degrees remain as part of the criminal conviction, but the execution of imprisonment will have a function other than the current one and a different tone. As a guarantee element, the framework for the initial classification of prisoners is defined, but within the framework, the prison organisation will be able to enforce its own classification and isolation criteria based on professional basis, in particular on the behaviour and willingness of prisoners to cooperate, the willingness to reintegrate, the risk of relapse and detention, and the weight of the crime committed, the criminological characteristics of the convicted person. A new credit system will be introduced as a new motivational tool, which was also mentioned by the Secretary of State, which aims to provide prisoners with an objective, predictable and transparent but motivating framework for switching between categories. This will therefore help the criminal policy goal of reducing the number of new crimes. The legislative amendment package currently under discussion also concerns police law, as regards cooperation with Europol, namely, I think it is an extremely important issue, since one of the biggest security challenges in recent years is illegal migration and the terrorist threat that partly stem from it. However, the amendment to the law before us allows the Hungarian police authorities to place a so-called information alert in the Schengen information system on a proposal from Europol for a person who is involved in terrorism or other similar serious crime. This will help to detect these persons, since if the investigating officer finds in a case that this alert is in place against the person subject to the measure, he can adapt his further action to this fact, to this knowledge. It is also worth mentioning the amendment of the International Law on Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters, even because in recent years there has been a significant increase in the number of prisoners of foreign nationality in Hungary. In the case of foreign nationals with adequate residence rights, family ties, especially foreign nationals, I believe that it is logical and realistic to propose in the bill that the execution of the prison sentence will be transferred to the State of residence of the sentenced person. The purpose of this bill is to speed up and simplify these procedural rules for the transfer of prison sentences, thereby contributing to the effectiveness of the transfer of prison sentences. And to give just one example: such a simplification rule is, for example, the proposal to ensure the hearing of the sentenced person by means of a telecommunications device. The bill also rightly states that in the case of sentenced persons who are on parole but who have returned to their State of residence, instead of issuing an international or European arrest warrant, instead of starting a sentence in Hungary, if the legal conditions are met, the prison judge should act directly towards the transfer of the execution of the sentence. Finally, I would also like to mention some elements of the amendment to the notary law. The amendment of the Law on notaries includes justified amendments based on feedback from law enforcement and practical experience, and indeed also serves to ensure consistency with other laws. The proposal clearly states at the statutory level that the notary's duty to the notary in the field of education is limited to procedural rights and obligations in court, and that the notary and the secretary of state have also stressed that it is only required to provide legal information when informing the notary of the substance and legal consequences of the transaction. The proposal also limits the transfer of the notary to another seat within three years of the appointment, in view of the public interest in the ongoing handling of cases. The proposal also settles who is entitled to the notary fee in case of permanent replacement without agreement. It also records that, in the case of the so-called witness of identity, these witnesses are sufficient to establish the identity of the party and to be present at the signature of the notary, and that they do not need to participate in the full reading of the notary document. The proposal clarifies with more detailed rules regarding the notary certification than previously, that when drawing up the certificate as an authentic instrument, the notary is only responsible for maintaining the formality of the authentic instrument and for the authenticity of the certificate. Dear Parliament, To sum up, the bill before us contains professional, thought-out, forward-looking provisions. That is why I call on my fellow Members to support this proposal, in the light of what has been said, like the Fidesz Group. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-03-130	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Sebian-Petrovszki, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2023-05-03-131	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Not for the first time, and I'm afraid it's not the last time you'll hear from me as a sort of zero point in the negotiation of such a package of laws, what's wrong with so-called salad laws or salad law packages like the one we've got here. [[15.50]] The specific feature of these is that the author, the government, is putting together all sorts of matters which are otherwise unrelated to each other, amendments to the law in a package, and thus presenting it to us here in the debate, so that we also have to and will give an opinion on matters which are not linked to each other, and then, of course, in the vote. These cases are wired together, they're handled together. We understand the political consideration of this, because it is possible to play that trick, and the government is regularly using it to wire a hundred cases, and this may have 99 forward-looking, good, to be supported by the opposition, because the citizens' lives are improved by this proposal, but the government, Fidesz, is putting in it as one hundredth, which, in turn, is in no way eligible, and cannot in any way enjoy the support of the opposition. And then this political task will be put before the opposition parties by the government, so that you decide to support 99 good things, and with that one evil, or you will compare them, and then none. This is important because you can say that, yes, that is life, and indeed that is life for a few weeks ago, Secretary of State Répássy, to an immediate question, in which I asked why the sentence of András Bencsik about the execution of gays in Uganda is not thought that the civil code should be amended, he replied, but, well, six, seven, eight years ago, the Btk. The definition of hate speech and its punishments were included in the amendment, and it was not voted by the opposition at the time. Of course, because it was still included in a salad law, in a complex package, and certainly there were good and forward-looking measures in that package, and there were a lot of things that could not be supported under any color; then or today we would not support it as a opposition party. That is why it is important when we talk about better, better, more forward-looking matters, if we discuss and accept them in separate laws, as we can increase the chances of finding points in which we agree and in which we can act together. It's not like that right now. I'm reporting it to Mr. Secretary of State. Here in this package I only counted to 20, but here my fellow Member, if I remember correctly, mentioned 34 amendments to dozens of laws. Once again, the government is playing the same thing as I just outlined: so there are some of them that could be supported or modified at least because the principle is not devilish, and then there are some of them, of course, that we cannot agree with under any color. Let's get into the content. This package of laws, although it contains amendments to Laws 20-34, is a definition of government, and I see it also appears in the press that it is a kind of prison reform law. In fact, the key element of this package of laws is that it is intended that the law re-regulates how and how prisoners can receive rewards and how they can be affected by some kind of disadvantage. To do so, a credit system has been invented to try to standardize the system that we all know. In general, I could say that there is room for this thinking, there is room for it, and I think that we should rethink that after the prisoners get into the institutions, that is to say, one of the three of the prison detention centers, what kind of benefits can they have and what types of disadvantages they may suffer. Right now, this is happening in a terribly subjective operation. Technically, although there are certain regulators, the rewards and disadvantages of these prisoners depend on their subjective relationship with prison guards or the prison leadership, so this whole situation is a hotbed for various abuses; they are systemic abuse, because that is how the system works. So there really is a place for us to rethink this, re-regulate it, because this should be done differently. If it is possible to come up with a system in which rewards are allocated on the basis of objective principles and the award of a retaliation in some way, then this is a welcome thing. The problem with this specific proposal, with the specific package of laws, is that it defines a certain kind of framework, which talks, say, about the credit system, but does not give any details about what this looks like in practice, how it will work. Now you will certainly say, Mr Secretary of State, that of course, because it will be regulated in detail in the Government Decree, after Parliament has passed this law, but without knowing these details, it cannot be decided for certain that this proposal is otherwise forward-looking and good and that it will remedy the problems that I have just said about how subjective and systemic abuse the current system offers. So there are no guarantees in the current bill that this will work and that it will act in the direction that the law intends. It is important to understand the emphasis on this problem, and I am sure that my fellow Members know this, that while the number of people in the country is falling, and while the total number of reported registered crimes has been decreasing since a while, the prison population has grown to unprecedented proportions, I believe that most people have now been in prison in Hungary since 1990, and I have now reached the prison and the penitentiary. So, compared to previous years, extra people spend their time in prison, which, of course, creates the situation, but we know that, because five years ago, ten years ago, that was the case, too many people in prisons compared to the number of people they created and built. The government had six years, seven years ago, eight years ago a prison building program, I remember, even in connection with another presentation on the Justice Committee, perhaps we spoke about it in the annual report of Minister Judit Varga two years ago. What has happened is that the government has gradually withdrawn from this prison-building and prison-creation project; it is not clear why, there is no clear decision that the government has given up on this, or that the solution to these problems has been delayed. But the result is that it is important here because a large part of the problems are caused by too many people in prisons compared to prison size, so it is simply not possible to settle the situations that this law is trying to resolve from overcrowded prisons. I find it problematic to call the reward part of this proposal credits. I know it's a tiny, if you like, language policy comment, but credits at this age are more related to university studies, university points, and if you ask anyone about it, ten out of ten people will say that. Nameing the rewards in prison for such a positive, forward-looking and good thing is, I think, a mistake, I think, but that is obviously the least of the problems with this proposal. The important thing is that the current three times from three, or nine categories, we call it that, so the prison penitentiary and the various levels that are currently available would be transformed into five levels, but it is not clear from the proposal how these five levels relate to the prison detention facility three. [[16.00]] What do I mean? The case may have been that a convicted prisoner who is under more stringent conditions because of a more serious crime, let's say a convicted prisoner who is going to prison, has so much credit as the government is getting so much credit for his good behavior and other positives, that the life that the prison provides for him will actually be milder so that he slips over or down than if he were in a prison. The Secretary of State may say that the detailed rules show that such situations cannot arise, so the positives, the credits, the negatives, the penalties, if you like, cannot reach the level of category leaps, but this is not apparent from the bill. That is what I am talking about when I say that the part of the proposal contained in the bill and which can be interpreted as a prison reform does not contain any details, and therefore its assessment is double. It is difficult to decide or not to decide how this will work in practice. Let me live with the suspicion that there will be problems here. Finally, let me mention a whole other matter. There are other cases to be mentioned in comparison to the previous one, because there are inevitably many cases in a salad law, with thirty-something laws wired up, but it is important to note. In fact, the proposal for registration of legal persons would be a technical or minor proposal. However, it must also have been indicated to the pro-government representatives that this particular amendment is, therefore, that the condominiums will be included in this particular register, so that the register of legal persons will include condominiums in the register of many of them. Many understand that this is the legal basis for moving residents from condos to legal entities later on, and for renting apartments and taking them away from residents. We live in this country, we've seen a lot of things in 13 years, and we can imagine Fidesz, myself, but at the same time I'm skeptical about this type of gossip and news. But the problem is, if we have a proposal ahead of us, the government has tabled a proposal that in some cases scares us. And this is not one or two people, but many; if they go around the country, as we do, then they must have encountered this rumor, this fear. This means that something is wrong here, for some reason, the government is touching this issue in the wrong way. Therefore, I would like this part of the bill to be specifically justified, specifically explain why this is necessary, and what benefits people derive from it, because, as it stands, this is more of a conflict and danger for many, rather than a technical amendment, as the government would otherwise have intended. One word, like a hundred, the bill contains a lot of steps and amendments that can be considered professionally and even as a good step in the right direction. But the assessment lacks the proposals, the details, the rules that could decide whether these are good or not, it would be possible to decide whether the government is merely expressing an intention here, but the practical implementation of this will not work, or whether this is actually a step towards improving the system. I ask the government and the representatives of the government to resolve these doubts in order to obtain our support. Thank you very much.
u2023-05-03-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group, President of the Committee on Justice. Here you go.
u2023-05-03-133	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Taking into account that Mr Répássy Róbert, State Secretary in his expo, explained in detail the T/3776 on the amendment of the laws on the subject of justice. I would therefore like to focus on the key element of the bill in my speech, which would change the rigid limits of the implementation stages of the reprieve. Ladies and Gentlemen, Prison degrees are currently in prison, prison, prison. Between these degrees, there are rigid boundaries on which this bill intends to amend. It intends to amend, on the one hand, in order to facilitate the more efficient allocation of personal and material resources of the prison organisation and, on the other hand, to have a greater motivational effect on the behaviour of prisoners and their willingness to cooperate. I think it is very important that a simpler five-stage category system in the new classification system is the basis for the enforcement of imprisonment. This would mean that, as a result of the new system of classification of those sentenced to imprisonment, the professional aspects of the prison organisation would have a stronger role to play in determining the execution of the custodial sentence. The degree of execution would remain as part of the conviction, but in the course of the execution of imprisonment, the grades would have different functions and other emphasis, taking into account the sentenced person's behaviour, willingness to cooperate, willingness to reintegrate, the risk of relapse and detention, and the seriousness of the crime committed. As a new motivational tool for inmates, the establishment of a system of credits per convict would be introduced, with an objective information base for transferring prisoners between categories. In this connection, we have heard the objections made by DK's representative, Mr Sebian-Petrovski. These objections could be justified in themselves, but if we know that DK did not accept the new Btk., and now it is essentially on this basis that it criticises not only the new Btk., but these amendments, then these facts will be given a different light. Ladies and Gentlemen, This means that a prisoner can collect credit points after initial classification and then be placed in a more favourable category on the basis of this, but the change may also be negative, because, for example, in the event of a loss of points, it may be re-classified in his category. Ladies and Gentlemen, It is a fact that in recent years there has been a significant increase in the number of prisoners of foreign nationality, which is a serious burden for prison institutions. In the case of foreign nationals, the rules of international legal assistance in criminal matters allow the execution of imprisonment in the State of residence of the sentenced person to facilitate his reintegration into society. The bill therefore harmonises the procedural rules for the transfer of sentences primarily on the basis of feedback from law enforcement, relieves unnecessary administrative burdens, thereby facilitating the effectiveness of the transfer of prisons. Ladies and Gentlemen, In view of what has been said, I would like to ask you to support T/3776. Bill No. 1. The KDNP Group supports its adoption. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[16.10]]
u2023-05-03-134	Thank you very much, Congressman, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Sándor Szabó, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2023-05-03-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, the central element of the bill before us is the transformation of the implementation system, so I would like to focus on this in my speech. In the first place, I have to say that although the idea of the proposal on the reform of the enforcement of sentences would otherwise be supported, the lack of systemic guarantees, we believe, is greatly undermining the better efforts of the proposal. I do not wish to express the substance of the proposal, because the Secretary of State and several fellow Members have already spoken about it, because of the fact that a five-stage category system is being developed from the three stages of the current system, and I do not want to talk much about the credit system, because we have heard a lot about this from the speakers before me, and it is here that the condemned person can collect credits and get into different categories, but he can also lose points, and I do not wish to mention them now. In particular, the proposal states that in recent years there has been a significant increase in the number of prisoners of foreign nationality in Hungary, which is also a significant burden for prison institutions. As I mentioned earlier, however, it stands to reason that there is no problem in the current law alone with the objectives of the implementation of the sentence which the proposal seeks to achieve. A system of prison execution, which, by the way, really takes account of the behaviour of the condemned and helps to reintegrate later in society, would be particularly beneficial, in particular to standardise the system of rewards and disciplines, to secure guarantees, to make the number of prisoners transparent, to ensure the right of redress in substance, could result in the elimination of systemic abuse practices, which we think could be particularly beneficial. Unfortunately, however, it is not clear from the current prison practice that these principles will otherwise be properly applied in the future. On the one hand, it is basically apparent that Fidesz's criminal policy favours reprimanding in prison institutions, and in some cases it also regards it as a kind of social policy bankruptcy, as it seeks to remedy this problem through organisational systems. This was seen, for example, in the criminalization of homelessness, which was also punished by reference to Christian love, or rather than paying the fine, we experienced similar things when we sat down in detention. This latter case is the worst hit by the poorest, since no one chooses to do so willingly. This happens that, by the way, the daily cost of a prisoner today is three times the amount of the fine to be charged one day. Moreover, this situation is further exacerbated by the continued increase in the number of participants in the fine. From 2019 to 21, the proportion of those who were forced to be detained for fines increased by 53 percent. This number, by the way, represents an increase in the number of souls, from 105,000 to 161 thousand people, and, as we see the economic situation, this ratio will probably or probably continue to rise with its deterioration. The overcrowding of prisons is a similar problem, and I believe that my fellow Member, Mr Sebian-Petrovsk, has already spoken, which, we believe, is also the result of your criminal policy, the criminal policy that has resulted in the fact that as many people have never been behind bars as they are now in the past 33 years, despite the fact that, by the way, the number of people is constantly falling. In addition, overcrowding was further enhanced by the fact that prison constructions were very slow, which could be implemented years later or not at all compared to the dates in the original plans. It is enough to look only at last year's statistics to understand the problem, because the rate of overcrowding was 107 percent on 31 December 2022 at the end of last year. For this reason, our country was constantly fined by the European Commission on Human Rights because of inappropriate detention conditions. The government has tried to solve this problem in part by loading prisoners between prisons in Hungary, only in January this year more than a thousand prisoners have been transferred, but they have been trying to deal with overcrowding for years. A government attitude towards social inclusion of prisoners is equally problematic. The government has been making it difficult for prisoners to visit and contact for years, resulting in the loss of their social relationships, which again makes it very difficult or difficult for them to reintegrate later. The proposal must be interpreted in the light of this, in particular in view of the fact that the proposal itself justifies its amendments on several points, as I mentioned earlier, by making better use of capacity. Therefore, there is nothing more than that the government cannot provide the right conditions for other areas here, and is actually trying to resolve these issues by administrative means. Among other things, the problems are similar to those of ordinary legislation, the lack of knowledge of the detailed rules emptifies the relevant part of the legislation. Due to the approach described above, there is no substantial assistance for the development and reintegration of prisoners, which is necessary for the development and reintegration of prisoners, as well as for responding to needs, so the assessment of performance in itself poses the risk that those who are in a worse situation will be put in an even worse position. In view of these and the systemic lack of guarantees, even with the best intentions, the present proposal cannot be supported without a fully comprehensive criminal law reform, and we cannot support it in this form. Thank you for listening.
u2023-05-03-136	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Apáti, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Group. Here you go.
u2023-05-03-137	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In itself, there are many forward-looking, perhaps well-intentioned proposals in this very serious mixed salad law proposal, and in this sense it is quite misleading, because everything, anything and anything can be included under the large umbrella of the amendment of the law on judicial matters. Well, it's not just about justice, it's about a lot of other legislation, it's about criminal law, it's about prison law, especially as an important branch of criminal law. For example, the rules on interpreters should have been regulated or reformed in the past, as the number of increased foreign suspects, accused persons, inmates with increased demands for interpreters or for interpretations, much more interpreters are required in proportion to those who do not speak many Hungarian languages, which does not require a university degree, and it is right to relax on these rules. After all, in many cases, the fact that there is no interpreter with sufficient expertise, especially in the case of the rarer languages, leads to a delay in criminal proceedings, especially those who come from certain African and Asian countries. Not to mention that all these loaded ones usually run under the same name, no personal documents, and all of them were born on the 1st of January of a given year. Thus, it is really difficult to even initiate criminal proceedings, let alone conduct them effectively and quickly. What deserves to be highlighted is that you will present this bill shortly after April 27th, on April 27th, before the long weekend, in full silence and in half-darkness, the Government Decree 148/2023 will be issued, right, regulating at a much lower level than the law the framework that you are already trying to grasp here. I'm just asking you, if you've seen that, in particular, in connection with the crime of smuggling people or the crime of preparing for the smuggling of human beings, the inmates tend to grow tenuously, the final convicts, the number of people sentenced to imprisonment in the final judgment, and it's now close to 3,000, then why don't you respond in time to what you're trying to do here, in this salad proposal, to try to transfer the execution of the sentence to the known place of residence or, if it can't be clarified, to the country of nationality. [[16.20]] After an extremely high cost of criminal proceedings, when this country spends a great deal of taxpayers' money on border protection, which is under the heading 148/2023. You've been pretty much wiped out by a government order, so you're only one step away from breaking down the fence. Obviously, they shouldn't do this to make a misunderstanding between us, but if they let the convicted criminals into the country and certain countries of Europe, we didn't do anything. Have you thought about how much money has been thrown out of the window, how much money will it cost to move the police and the military for border protection? How much money does investigating work cost? How much work does the D.A. and the court put in that 2,600 smugglers are sitting behind bars right now? And then, for now, 700 people, and then shortly thereafter, the remaining about 1900 will be released into the wind. Have you not considered the level of demoralization of the police, the military, the detectives, the prosecutors and the judges? They've made their work completely pointless. And of course, they didn't formally proclaim mercy, they didn't use a wide-ranging amnesty, but they developed a very specific genre of reintegration in the framework of completely unprofessional regulation pulled out by hair. I think that this is special at global level, that without any electronic tracking and signalling equipment, they give rise to the fact that within 72 hours the convicted thug must leave the territory of Hungary, return to the country of residence or nationality, and there he can practically do what he wants to do. Since the vast majority of these convicts consist of professional criminals who have settled themselves in a way of life and business to commit crimes, their income comes exclusively from the crime of committing a very large amount of income in the case of smuggling people, they will continue where they recently left off. I believe that the daily detention of 2,600 smugglers per day alone is a burden of tens of millions. They have confessed to this government decree, which they are trying to cover up with this proposal before us, that there is no money for this, that there are no conditions for detention. I would like to ask you quietly, honourable members of the Government, what has become of the promise to build nine prisons in 2015-2016. Nothing! One new place was not built; the nine prisons became three, and then there was one, which would happen to be built at the border of my beloved hometown, Csenger, and now this one dances on a razor edge. And even if it is raised, if it is ever built, the number of prisoners of this prison in Ring from 500 to 1000, this one institution alone will not be able to absorb this amazing excess, the overload that is weighing on the Hungarian prison system. But the solution is not to let criminals of foreign nationality wind up! What is the sequel to the release of non-Hungarian drug smugglers, because there are too many of them, so let them go on committing crimes? Or any other non-Hungarian citizen who has committed a crime against property, life or physical integrity, because there are too many of them in Hungarian prisons, can be let loose in connection with the introduction of a ridiculous, pathetic institution with a specific sub-type of reintegration? You are in fact very serious support for it, obviously that was not their goal, and I do not want to go too far, but this is basically a strong support for illegal immigration. So, do you think that those inmates who are about to be released can come back to Hungary in a few hours with the momentum they left the country, come back in 72 hours, or continue the criminal activity they came from, and you don't think they're laughing at their hands? What do you think this message has to do with international criminal organizations? The message of this is that Hungary is a paradise for criminals, it is safe to come here, to be released within a few weeks, a few months, maybe a year or two, because there is no room in the Hungarian prisons, and all the pleasures of free life can be enjoyed in the context of a forced-rape regulation by its hair. What work do you expect from detectives on human trafficking and related matters, how to be enthusiastic, what to be motivated about? They'll be told by Serbian, Bosnian, and recently already Ukrainian, Romanian, Moldavian, African, Asian, Iraqi, Afghanistan, and God knows where criminals came from, that no matter what you do, no matter what you try, it's only a matter of a short time before we're out again. If, in early May, they were able to state in this proposal that the solution is to transfer the final sentence of imprisonment, and that Hungary has a number of criminal agreements or even bilateral international treaties with a majority of the countries listed, it is not even possible to say that the majority of them have not been created or are not established as a basis for international criminal law cooperation. If they knew this at the beginning of May that this would actually be the solution, then at the end of April, in a government decree, in a legislation of a lower level than a law, why are 700 inmates and then 2600 in total? Can you tell me that? Of course, for example, the pro-government servant press and the media won't say a word about it, it doesn't surprise us anymore. And once again, let me confront you in a special way with your own actions and decisions. Imagine that you are in the opposition, and a broad amnesty of this type of reintegration detention is carried out by a Balliberal government; that you have released criminals who have committed crime types to the wind. That is precisely due to the lucky coincidence, obviously because it is the most common case that the crime of smuggling people and the crime of preparing for human trafficking has now been included in this regulation. Any day now, they'll be able to issue a government order to expand this crime scene any minute now. They did not even bother to set a limit at least at the rate of imprisonment imposed; they said at least that those sentenced to a maximum of three years of imprisonment could be subject to this in the case of virtually amnesty or those sentenced to a maximum of five years of imprisonment. Have you considered that you are now releasing professional, racially significant criminals who are laughing at you, us, everyone, all over the country, and who are sitting on a two-figure prison sentence or, say, a five-to-ten-year sentence? It is not even restricted that, let us say, multiple relapsers or odd and multiple relapsers in this circle are extremely typical of committing the same or similar crime on each occasion, at least this group of perpetrators would have been held in the Hungarian detention centers, and it would have been too late, in this sense, in relation to the government decree of 27 April, that the execution of the sentence would have been handed over in the framework of a simplified and accelerated procedure to the extreme. I would very much like to know that the strange connection of other background interests, where appropriate, the mafia and organised crime-related political ties, could not have motivated this legislation. Because I don't think it's possible that you, with your political routine behind your back, wouldn't recognize your political risk in the first second. Nor could they seriously think that, if not on the other hand, the only right-wing opposition party, the Hungarian Movement, would not notice this. They couldn't have thought that such a measure would stay under radar, and they would somehow get away with it if they were lucky. Well, that's why, knowing the Völner-Schadl case, knowing the close relationship between politics and organised crime over the last 33 years, there's a suspicion that there may have been high interests involved, possibly involving serious black money, in order to release serious criminals. And while, let's say, until a year or two ago, the citizens of the southern Slavic countries have been at the forefront of these crimes mainly Serb and Bosnian citizens, recently caught up or took the lead in Ukrainian, Romanian and Moldovan citizens, but the most typical trend is that, in particular, citizens from large issuing countries, Afghanistan, Iraq and the like, I put it mildly, are organizing the smuggling networks from very unorganized public-law countries, who have not only sharp firearms, but also series shootings, and have serious, even more serious weapons, not only on the basis of fully evident video footage presented a few months ago. [[16.30]] They no longer have the insinuation not to shoot Hungarian police. Now, those who were shooting cops on the M5 highway, risking the lives of civilians, because they've committed other crimes, they're not exactly under the amnesty, but maybe next week a government order comes out that they're going to wind up as well. Don't you think that this government decree should be repealed the way it was made? Yet you are sitting here at 134 or 135 people should be alerted to the big boss and the decision makers so that they don't think you're a button pusher either. By the way, you're being violated because we're talking about the government order, and we didn't even have to vote for it. Just like one or two people in your sorceress made that up, they already pushed it through on a Thursday before a long weekend. This would not affect one or two people, five or ten people, it could also be outrageous, but ultimately 2,600 inmates. Even the index that is not very critical of you in the first round was written by the Index alone, by the way, in honour of this news portal, it writes in its lower voice about the release of 700 people in a short time. Well, if the solution was here, they knew this excellent legal institution, which has existed for decades, that it should be handed over to the countries concerned to execute the prison sentence, then this should have been done in time, whether 3-4 or 5 years ago. You've seen the trends, you've seen the extreme imbalance in human trafficking. The thing is, from here on out, it's just one step away from what types of crime are the Btk. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years in accordance with Article 21 of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 laying down general provisions on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund, the European Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund, the Cohesion Fund, the Cohesion Fund, the Cohesion Fund, the Cohesion Fund, the Cohesion Fund, the Cohesion Fund, the So I suggest that you withdraw, repeal this government decree, and, at the highest level, settle this regulation at the legal level, because otherwise, God will not wash you or your individual prominents off, if appropriate, to cooperate with international criminal organizations in the hope of black money in order to release those who commit one of the most dangerous crimes in Hungary, the various forms of human trafficking.
u2023-05-03-138	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Mr Károly Kontra has applied for a two-minute speech. You have the floor.
u2023-05-03-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Several left-wing representatives in the debate claimed that there has been no construction of prison space in recent years. I would also like to say to their information and to the public that in July 2021, the Ministry of the Interior created 2750 new seats. These became prison spaces built with light-structure technology. In Pusztán, Pálhalman, Sopronkőhida and Szeged 110-110, in Tököl 220, Baracska and Veszprém 330-330, in Kiskunhalas and Tiszalök 440-440, and in Miskolc 550 prisoners, these seats were suitable for the reception of these places, reported then, so a total of 2,750 new prison spaces were built in 2021. I would ask my fellow Members to take this truth, this fact, into account in the future, and not to claim something that does not correspond to reality. If you want, I'll keep going. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-03-140	Thank you very much, Congressman. For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Congressman István Apáti, Mi Hazank. Here you go.
u2023-05-03-141	Thank you very much for the floor. The question arises immediately after Mr Kontra's speech, that if such light-structured container prisons or container spaces have been created, or if they have not been created, they have not been of much higher quality, and he said 2750, if I understand correctly, then what is to release 2,600 smugglers? Well, then, technically, you're confirming what I just said, or I've made you the subject of serious criticism. Well, it doesn't seem so tragic, does it? But, by the way, hold on, Congressman, it's tragic, because at the same time, there are about 120 percent overcrowding in prisons. In spite of the tricks that are being played here, in the region of 2015-16 and on 4 May 2017, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán in Csenger did not say that they would create space with easy-structured seats, such as absolving and expanding existing prisons in the country, but told Csenger and the Csenger district that there would soon be a prison in Csenger. Five hundred seats, yes, they've been talking about a thousand lately. This alone would not solve the national problems, but it would alleviate them a lot, and this unfulfilled promise will burn on the Prime Minister, as the focus has been placed on this topic in the 2018 and 2022 campaigns. It's like the Csengeri district used to have the 4th metro, you could fool people from campaign to campaign, only then the Balliberian parties fooled people, and now you're fooling people. We've already been through two parliamentary campaigns, including a municipal election, an EP election, another municipal one coming next year, another EP, the parliamentary one in three years. At least build this prison to at least improve the situation, at least ease the situation. And if you think it's not as tragic as the opposition sees it, by the way, not only is it Balliberal MEPs, but as a right-wing Member, I myself have spoken of this problem, but I am saying it just for the sake of historical loyalty, and why are people smuggling criminals loose in the wind. Answer that.
u2023-05-03-142	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I am not at liberty to speak to Mr Károly Kontra in this round. If you want to speak in a normal time frame, it's possible. Dear Parliament, As no one else has made themselves known for a further two-minute speech and no one has made themselves known in any other normal time frame, the general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State if he would like to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] You have the floor.
u2023-05-03-143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Now, on this occasion, I would just like to respond briefly, and I promise you that I will respond in detail to your detailed points in the so-called second-reading debate. I always do that in the closing debate. Most criticisms or most questions were undoubtedly raised in the context of a change in prison rules, but if I understood correctly, the new solution proposed in the bill, which would reduce the degree of execution of the convicts from nine degrees to five degrees, and would create interoperability between them through the acquisition of so-called credits, if I understood correctly, was not argued with this construction. So it seemed to me that there was no criticism of the proposal in this respect, or at least there was no debate with the aim of not arguing with the aim of motivating prisoners, or rather with the aim of better achieving the order of the prison and the reintegration aspects of prison execution. So this type of incentive system and the level of incentive, the change in the circumstances of the implementation, let us say, did not really give rise to a counter-opinion from the Members. Personally, I am pleased that there is hope that, at least in principle, there will be broad agreement on the bill in terms of objectives. It is undoubtedly true that this package amends a lot of legislation, a lot of laws, but there is a link between them. On the one hand, the title itself states that these are all judicial laws, and, of course, in this sense, the area of law on which the government is proposing a change can be narrowed down. These proposals are also linked by the fact that it explicitly requires existing legal institutions and legal rules on the basis of the comments received from the law enforcement authorities, so it intends to change this legislative package by means of improved proposals in the implementation of the laws. [[16.40]] There is therefore a common element of these amendments, in any case, that they came from the case-law, from the law-applicationers, and that these solutions proposed by the law-appliers are to be presented to Parliament in a package. Apart from the amendment of the prison rules, I do not think there is a need for a separate law to negotiate all these amendments before Parliament. I really thank Mr János Kiss for having calculated that he would amend 34 laws. We are now having this amendment in a debate instead of 34 debates, and I think we have plenty of time to discuss these issues. So I ask you to accept this solution both from the point of view of the functioning of the Parliament and from the point of view of the context of its content and to accept the amendments proposed by the bill. Reintegration detention, as you know, is not the subject of this proposal, but, in a government decree, the government authorised the enforcement of the sentence to designate the place of reintegration detention, even in the case of persons who are convicted of criminal offences or of the crime or preparation of human trafficking, unlike the rules of the prison law, the national commander of the prison system designates the place of detention, even in the case of foreign persons, to the state of residence. Undoubtedly, this is not a standard solution, but I think that given the nature of this crime and the identity of the perpetrators abroad, it is a solution that we can keep these criminals away from Hungary. They would obviously take a huge risk if they came to Hungary again, because they do not have to commit a crime in Hungary, but as a result of expulsion, if they were to enter Hungary, they could be remanded. There is therefore a good chance that these smugglers will not appear in Hungary, and this has an important significance in the territory of the European Union, because these smugglers will be expelled outside the European Union. In other cases, you or opposition factions are the ones who raise the real argument as to how much it costs to place a prisoner. Is it worth it, is detention such a social benefit for us in this case, so when it comes to a foreign smuggler, which is why we spend taxpayers' money on it? I think there's been a pretty clear assessment here. The main aspect of the consideration is that the perpetrator can still be kept away from Hungary, thus preventing him from committing another crime in relation to Hungary's state border, not least committing a crime to harm those victims, so it can be solved without having to hold these smugglers captive for hundreds of millions of forints. So, honourable Member, it is no coincidence that this is an emergency government decree, because obviously the government is responding to this war emergency with such a solution. I could also say that if we were not in a situation in which we had to consider spending taxpayers' money on the detention of smugglers, but that the budgetary coverage of this could be ensured without endangering other objectives, the government would not have taken such an emergency solution. This is an emergency solution, and this is not disputed by the regulation itself. So, please, this is how you see it, that this is an emergency solution, otherwise maybe the government wouldn't have made that decision. Dear House, Dear Members, gentlemen and ladies, I ask you to accept the reasons for the bill and support the law in the final vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-05-03-144	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your answers. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted on Friday at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, Before we move on to our next item, I would like to announce that S/3848. The number of votes cast in the election of the Vice-President of the Committee on Welfare was wrongly published in the course of the decision. The number of votes cast is correct: 174 votes in favour, zero votes against and 1 abstention. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members that this does not change the outcome of the vote. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the bill amending electoral procedural rules in relation to electronic administration will follow up until closure. The government referral is T/3777. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Répássy, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2023-05-03-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, At the beginning of this year, the National Election Office worked out and sent to the Ministry of Justice its legislative proposals to renew and extend the e-Accessibility toolkit. It is important to point out that the Election Office also sent the package of proposals to the parliamentary parties, so they could make their proposals and make their comments to the office. Dear House, The aim of the bill is, in summary, to modernise the electoral procedure and to facilitate administration for both customers and electoral bodies. It is important to point out that the 2013 XXXVI on the electoral procedure In order to facilitate the exercise of suffrage and to ensure effective exercise of the right of appeal, law allows the use of electronic means to be dealt with at present. When developing the scope of electronic administration, the legislator had to take into account, on the one hand, that the widest possible range of voters and other actors should be able to make use of simpler solutions, while at the same time ensuring that safety requirements are respected, possible abuses should be excluded. On the basis of these considerations, there are currently two forms of administration available to voters for the electronic submission of roll-list applications under the rules in force. On the one hand, requests may be submitted using a secure way of identifying a customer gate and, on the other hand, voters without a customer gate may be given the opportunity to submit a request on their own behalf by providing some personal data. In addition, it is possible to submit the application by letter, personal or authorized means. In 2015 the Parliament adopted a law on general rules for electronic administration and trust services in order to speed up procedures and reduce administrative burdens, to further e-electronicise relations between the state and citizens, to ensure the cooperation of bodies providing electronic administration and to provide the public with more modern and efficient public services, with the aim of extending electronic administration, creating the necessary legal conditions, ensuring the legal basis for technical improvements and limiting the electronic administration of organisations providing administrative services to uniform principles. The purpose of this bill is to limit unidentifiable forms of administration to the minimum possible, to extend customer identification to all means of identification provided by the Central Identification Agent, to introduce automatic decision-making and to optimise administrative solutions and processes. [[16.50]] In this context, the bill sets out, on a general basis, how voters can submit their applications for the register and how they will be served on the election office's decision. In particular, applications may be submitted by electronic means after electronic identification, and the possibility of processing by personal or authorised means remains. The unidentified means of submission are therefore limited to a narrow circle of submission by letter or electronic means without identification, to the request for a mobile ballot box and to the entry in the register, and the possibility of handling by telefax is no longer possible. An important change is the fact that the election office's decision must be made primarily by sending it to a storage facility, but the voter may also specify other means of delivery, such as personal receipt or e-mail delivery. The bill also allows for automatic decision-making in matters of roll-lists which do not require consideration and can be decided on the basis of available data; this creates a significant part of the workload of election offices. In addition, in the light of the experience of law enforcement, the bill sets an eight-day deadline for the examination of judicial reviews against the results of the election in the context of municipal and ethnic elections. Honourable Members, To sum up so far: the above measures will make it much easier, faster for voters to exercise their rights, and the administrative burden of election offices will also be significantly reduced. Thank you for your attention, and I ask this House to support the bill. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-03-146	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2023-05-03-147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The proposed amendment before us will ensure the smooth conduct of upcoming municipal and European Parliament elections and facilitate the effective exercise of suffrage and the right to redress. The necessary amendments to align the two elections create the consistency of the e-administration law and the electoral procedure law with regard to the requests for registration, and make it easier for voters to exercise their rights and reduce the administrative burden of electoral offices. A proposal that responds to the technological development of recent years is always welcome and develops domestic administrative procedures in parallel with the expansion of digitalisation. CHAPTER XXI There is a growing demand for electronic administration in Hungary as well. It is essential for the Hungarian population to ensure more modern and efficient public services and the wide availability of e-administration. This bill is intended to serve this purpose. Dear House, The development of e-administration and the smooth conduct of elections are important citizens' interests, so I would like to ask my fellow Members to support this proposal in the light of what has been said. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-03-148	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Sebian-Petrovszki, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2023-05-03-149	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, There have been several times that we have come before us, before this House, to propose that we solve part of our lives digitally, in electronic administration, in Hungarian, that there are existing official procedures, that we have had to deal with in person by citizens, how we can move them to the online world. In each of these debates in which I represented DK, I said that the idea itself, the proposal itself, is about how to simplify a procedure for citizens, and in many cases simplification and easy accessibility go hand in hand with digitalisation, is welcome to us and good for us. DK also has a separate chapter on how and what can be done digitally from citizens' lives and administration, and there are very good foreign examples that could be transposed into Hungarian reality. So, in itself, whether we are electronicizing certain elements of the electoral process, and from now on we are opening up that it can either be done here as a supplement, online, or exclusive in some cases, it is not a bad thing, it is not a problem in itself. However, the fact is that whenever Fidesz went to the election procedure in the last 13 years, and there was a proposal before us about the electoral procedure, no matter how beautiful words and beautiful sentences were inserted into the reason why this was necessary, we had a stomach cramped because we knew that there could be no other than the power consideration of Fidesz, because that is how you operate. The last thing you care about is the ginger-grained part of their explanation of how it will be better for citizens and voters, and how they will be able to remain in power. We have a package of proposals here that can be read into the intentions that the Secretary of State has spoken about, but we know that this is the appearance, we know that this is just the powder, so to speak, the facade on the building. In fact, the intentions of Fidesz trying to change the rules at all costs to make it good for him in the next election, in the elections, to ensure his victory even more; that is what is happening now. It is not to be expected in an authoritarian system like Hungary, but we are not surprised at this, but it is only important for the understanding of the story and the opinion of DK that it is indeed the framework in which we exist. I will give you examples of this, because I see that Mr Secretary of State doubts that, and I will give you examples in a moment. It will be settled now, if I understand correctly, one of its aims, in the regulation, is what is the situation if, next spring, in the municipal elections to be held in May-June and organised for the same day with the EP election, someone wins, someone acquires a mandate, but we do know the situation, that they will take over their mandate only in October, what will happen during that half-year, and what if they lose their mandate or anything else happens. The whole situation should not be provided for, the whole situation would not have to be dealt with if you had not, on the basis of purely power-technical logic, brought forward the date of the municipal election and merged in a coherent manner with the date of the EP election. So they took one step for power reasons, and now, for example, in this bill, there is a need to regulate the resulting situations. We understand that it must be regulated, and I understand that this is described in the explanatory statement, but it is only your efforts in power that justify the need to regulate such situations here. But let us not conclude that this will then be sold as a good and welcome proposal, because this is for your purposes of power. They've moved up the municipal election because it's in your political interest. So let's get this straight, and when we're discussing this, let's just say it. Second, they set up an institution called a delivery agent, which has not been in election cases, so there will be someone who can act in place of others in certain cases, on the basis of a certain mandate. It is not clear from the proposal what the wonder is the point of this, why this is necessary. There have been dozens of elections in this country since 1990 without this delivery agent, many millions of people have been able to vote off and do their business, and now they are introducing this institution, so that the detailed rules are enlarged and they do not go into the details in any way. [[17.00]] For example, it is not clear how many persons the same person may have in service. Maybe I'll handle a hundred people's election proceedings if I feel like it and talk people into it? So it is not clear why we are introducing a new institution, why this is necessary, and since the detailed rules are not provided for in this proposal, we can then take advantage of the suspicion lawsuit that Fidesz is creating an abusive situation here. We do not know what this will be used for, when it will be used, and how we will be able to verify it in any way, but we do feel on the proposal that something is happening here, that something of this type has been put before us. If we understand the proposal correctly, although we are talking about electronic engineering, digitalisation and electronic administration, which, in principle, would mean that the time spent on the procedure will be reduced, problems will be resolved sooner, the procedures will be shortened; in comparison with this, it is in fact that, if we understand correctly, the electoral committees and the Curia, but in some cases, when the Constitutional Court will be able to turn to the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court may take decisions within a longer time limit. These deadlines are therefore pushed out of the proposal. Really, do you not feel how controversial it is to put in a proposal for electronic administration or in the case of a reference to it rules which, by the way, extend the procedure, which will end in a longer period of time, the same process that has happened so far? It's okay, it helps citizens' interests, and that's good for them? I don't think so. Electronic administration and electronisation of processes are, as I said, generally welcome, but it is very important in the context of an election procedure to control these processes. To check, I mean, how the starters, the candidates, the parties can control this. This is still a deficit in the authoritarian regime called Hungarian democracy, but in this proposal they do not even try to see how they imagine what kind of control of this type of administration is possible by the parties. There is no suggestion in this package of laws. But in addition to the fact that we can list these professional problems, in which it is clear that this package of proposals has nothing to do but to give you a better and better career in next year's elections, and then in the subsequent elections, in fact with the electoral system and electoral procedures, these are not the problems. The issues in this proposal are not those that should be resolved, which should start and re-regulate, otherwise regulate. Let me give you an example of what I'm thinking? Well, for example, the system of plural recommendations, which is possible in the parliamentary elections, and in unspeakable cases, we have criticized its system, because this is a hotbed for fake parties and fake candidates, and this system cannot be modified by Fidesz, and they never, ever come with any proposal on how and in what way it can be effectively combated. We don't see any of that in this right now, but it's not even a question of what the government might be dealing with. It is never on the agenda, and it should be about the cases of abuse of cross-border letter voting. This has many, many literatures; it is a series of NGOs, experts and electoral experts, in addition to the fact that the parties and especially the opposition parties have indicated the disadvantages, the potential for abuse; obviously, Fidesz does not do it to bring it in here to modify it, because it is good for Fidesz and serves the interests of Fidesz itself. I would like to give an example of this: we know that organisations across the border funded by Fidesz are crossing the border in the event of voting and encourage Hungarian citizens and Hungarian citizens with voting rights to vote for Fidesz, and even help fill out these certain letter votes. Is that okay? That the people who get paid for the operation, besides one of the runners, are still agitating? Of course, it's not okay, it wouldn't happen in a democracy, but it would happen in the autocracy you've built. I will not open the big question now, but you know the position of DK about what we think and who has the right to vote and who doesn't. I would just like to record here from the point of view of the record that we consider it important for the person who lives here to vote and who bears the consequences of his vote. It is important, and it is important to talk about it here, or to think that we are boring to mention it; but it is necessary to mention it again because in the proposal, in the package of proposals you have just submitted, there is a wink to this, because the unidentified application is regulated in this package, who and how and how such an application can be made, that it does not allow those who do not have a Hungarian address to continue to have this package. So Fidesz maintains the system that it has built, and in 13 years it has developed to perfection for its own good, so that the electoral system and procedures can go down for them, be a good course for Fidesz. From this whole package of proposals, it is impossible to draw any conclusions but that Fidesz is nothing more than what Fidesz has been trying to further refine the system from a power-technical point of view over the past 13 years, in order to ensure the best results for itself for the first time in next year's election and possibly in the 2026 election. Not because more voters would vote for them, but in order to achieve them with all kinds of procedural rules, so that they would be on track. DK cannot support such a package of proposals in any way; we have not yet supported it, we will not support it, we will not support it now. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2023-05-03-150	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group, President of the Committee on Justice. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2023-05-03-151	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/3777 on the amendment of electoral procedural rules in relation to electronic administration I would like to focus, as the lead speaker of the KDNP bill, on the expo that has already been made, and then reacting to the statement by MEP László Sebian-Petrovszki DK that the XXXVI of 2013 on the electoral procedure. law on how to facilitate the exercise of the right of choice and the administration of electronic means in the course of the appeal procedure. Ladies and Gentlemen, As a de facto fact, it should be noted that the Act on Election Procedure provided for the possibility of electronic administration. When designing this, the legislator had to take into account both the extent of the prevalence of infocommunication tools and the need to exclude potential abuses, or at least limit them to the lowest level. On the basis of these considerations, there are two types of administration available to voters today for the electronic submission of roll-list applications. One of them: requests for registration may be submitted using a secure way of identifying a customer gate and, on the other hand, voters who do not have a customer gate may be able to submit a request for registration on their own behalf by providing some of their personal data. In addition, it is possible to submit the application by letter, personal or authorized means. Ladies and Gentlemen, This House adopted CCXXII of 2015 on the general rules for electronic administration and trust services in 2015 due to the acceleration of procedures and the reduction of administrative burdens and the wider electronicisation of relations between the state and its citizens. Law. [[17.10]] The purpose of this law was to extend electronic administration by creating the relevant conditions. The e-administration law also covers election offices, but not electoral committees. The purpose of this bill is to establish the e-administration law and the Ve in respect of the applications relating to the register. let's make it more fully consistent. In this context, customer identification will be extended by the Central Identification Agent, all means of identification by introducing automatic decision-making. The above measures will make it easier and faster for voters to exercise their rights, and the administrative burden on election offices will also be significantly reduced. The bill would also set an eight-day deadline for the examination of judicial reviews against the results of the election in relation to municipal and ethnic elections. Ladies and Gentlemen, I would now like to respond briefly to what our fellow Member from Sebian-Petrovsk has said. Most of the time, Congressman, he did not talk about the bill, but when he did, he criticized his view that the electronic submission of an application was self-conscious and self-conscious. What I can tell you is that we know this, we know your position, we know that if you don't win, then everything here is authoritarian, then there is no democracy here, there is no rule of law here. But, Congressman, you are mistaken because there was no democracy and the rule of law when you were in the government. [[Laszlo Sebian-Petrovski's name.]] And when there is Fidesz-KDNP, there is the rule of law, order and democracy in Hungary. So, I ask you to reconsider your position and support the bill, and the KDNP Group supports it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-05-03-152	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László György Lukács, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2023-05-03-153	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, T/3777 on the amendment of electoral procedural rules in relation to electronic administration As a representative of the Jobbik-Conservatives, I would like to draw the following points to the attention of this House. The proposal was submitted by the National Election Office to the Ministry of Justice at the time, before which it was sent to the heads of all parliamentary factions for an opinion. This is certainly welcome and underpins the pursuit of professionalism, unlike in most cases the proposals put forward by the government, which in many cases ignore any kind of social consultation, but in good times do not even listen to the opinion of the opposition factions. The aim and main objective of the amendment is to renew and extend the e-administration toolbox and to modernise the electoral process and facilitate administration for customers and electoral bodies. The extension of electronic customer identification and the introduction of the automatic decision-making process are also included in the proposal. The amendments may lead to consistency between the Act on Election Procedure and the Law on Electronic Administration. This part of the proposal is forward-looking and eligible. Although the proposal clarifies that if the mandate of the Member, the mayor or the mayor is terminated before 1 October 2024 no interim election can be set, but it is still questionable what rules will apply for the transitional period between the 2024 election and October, it would be appropriate to clarify these. We therefore ask the Secretary of State and the MPs to clarify this in the debate. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2023-05-03-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now up to the representative of nationality invited by the committee representing the nationalities to speak. I give the floor to Mr Imre Ritter, a German national representative, who explains the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language and then translates them into Hungarian. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-05-03-155	[[???Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parlament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt bezüglich der Gesetzesentwurf mit Nr. T/3777 „Über die Änderung der Wahlverfahrensregeln im Zusammenhang mit der elektronischen Verwaltung” erörtere.???]] Mr President, Dear House, Allow me to express our position on behalf of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities at T/3777. on the draft law amending electoral procedural rules in relation to electronic administration. The Committee of Hungarian Nationalities discussed this bill at its meeting on 2 May 2023. At the committee meeting, the following were formulated as opinions of the Committee. This proposal was also available earlier on the National Election Office website. According to the article on the proposal, on 8 March 2023 the National Election Office handed over to the Ministry of Justice its legislative proposals concerning the Act on Election Procedure and other legislation. At the same time, it mentions that the NTI also sent the package of proposals to the parliamentary parties, so they could make their proposals and make their comments to the office. I am thinking of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, we have not been notified or asked, we have not been sent. Unfortunately, this is not the first time in the last few years that the electoral bill, where appropriate related to the amendment of the law on the rights of nationalities, will be submitted without prior consultation with the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, and sometimes even in spite of our protests. This was the last time that the rules on nationality nominating organisations were amended, which, in view of its introduction later, was practically repealed with regard to the municipal and ethnic elections next year, by amending the entry into force. I would like to draw the attention of the National Election Office, as the National Election Committee, to the fact that the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities has been operating for nine years, representing the interests of indigenous nationalities in Hungary, so I would like to ask them with respect that their legislative proposals concerning nationalities be agreed with the Nationality Committee in advance, as they have been able to send to the parliamentary factions. Thank you in advance for the understanding, beneficial future cooperation for all of us. Turning to the bill: Since mid-December 2022, an inter-wallet consultation has been held at Njtv. of which NTI is also a permanent participant. In these inter-wallet discussions, the 56th issue was a constant one. The complete revision of the section and all of the provisions of the Njtv. a reminder, a memo, an information e-mail. What is the point of the problem, so that everyone understands: on the one hand, the 2021 census was postponed due to the pandemic in autumn 2022. On the other hand, the municipal and ethnic elections planned for the autumn of 2024 were brought forward in the spring of 2024. As a result, virtually more than a year and a half have been lost, and the expected publication of census and electoral nationality data in autumn 2023 simply does not have enough time for the 56th century currently in force. The procedures set out in paragraph 1 of this Article may be carried out. Therefore, the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities will submit Njtv after the last inter-ministerial consultation this morning. a complex bill to amend, including a completely modified new 56. Article 2 (1) (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (d), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), [[17.20]] It should be avoided that one paragraph of the same paragraph should be amended by successive decisions of the National Assembly with a small exaggeration, so we initiate that T/3777. Point 2 of the Bill No 2, entitled CLXXIX of 2011 on the Rights of Nationalities. Amendment to Act No. 4 and 5. Section 2 is excluded and these are submitted by the NEB together with further amendments to Njtv. On the other proposals for amendments to the Njtv.: Article 87. The amendment of Section 1 is necessary because of the separation of the date of the election of local representatives and mayors, as well as the date of the election of the representatives of the minority self-government and the starting date of the mandate of the elected representatives. Point 167 is replaced by the following: The amendment relates to the following: logically, it binds the holding of the formational meetings of the minority self-governments to a legal increase in the result of the election. We agree with both amendments, so I see no obstacle to the submission by the NEB. XXXVI of 2013 on the electoral procedure In law, the electoral procedural law also makes ethnic changes to the present bill. These amendments also affect the indigenous nationalities in Hungary, the deadlines for the national minority register, the elections of the national minority self-government. Without detailing these, I declare that we agree with the amendments. At the same time, we again raise the professional proposal previously sent in writing by the National Municipality of Germans in Hungary, although it is not directly related to electronic administration, because it promotes electoral transparency and clarity. During the 2022 election, a number of indications were received from German national voters, but also from other national electors, that some ballot counting committees had made fewer ballots available to voters during the elections than they would have been required under the legislation. In at least a dozen cases, I acted personally, and these announcements came from all over the country. The point was that, in addition to the ballot paper for the individual district, the ballot paper for the minority list was not issued to national voters. In view of the elimination of this, we have the following proposal. We propose the Election Procedure Act 179. § (1) amended as follows. The current text:, The ballot paper, and here I draw attention to the number of the voter on the printed polling district register and 175. In the case referred to in paragraph 2 of Section 2 of this Article, the register of citizens requiring a mobile ballot box shall be signed with his own hand. Our proposed amendment:. The voters confirm the number of ballot papers received with their own hand on the printed register of voters and 175. In the case referred to in paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the receipt of ballot papers on the register of citizens requiring a mobile ballot. In 2022, because of one signature, it could not be verified or verified that the voter had received one or two ballots, and that the withdrawal of one vote in this way and the loss of one vote significantly undermines the constitutional rights of the voters. In the spring 2024 elections, voters registered in the national minority register will receive one, two or three national electoral ballots again, even different from one town to another. Their transfer or incomplete transfer may not be confirmed by any signature or re-checked in the case of an appeal, and this solution is therefore justified. Finally, the 2013 XXXVI on the electoral procedure. I would like to talk about a section of the law that is not affected by the current bill, although it should be affected, namely Article 248. Article 2 (1) (a) (ii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v). This is how it is said:. The register of voters and the register of voters shall include the indication of the nationality of the voter if the voter, at the latest on the basis of a request made by the voter on the ninth day before the vote, is included in the central register of voters, including the register of elections of Members of Parliament. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, This general rule is complemented and clarified by 1/2022. [[I. 11.]] IM Regulation setting out the deadlines and deadlines for the parliamentary elections and national referendum procedures set out on 3 April 2022, of which Article 10. § ( 1) says: "The notifier and the electoral register shall include the indication of the nationality of the voter if the voter is included in the central register of voters, including the register of elections of the Members of Parliament, on the basis of an application submitted by the voter by 16.00 on 18 March 2022 at the latest. [ Ve. 248. In the meantime, from 18 March 2022 until 3 April 2022, it is not 9 days, but 14 days. Article 10 of the IM Regulation § (2) paragraph 2 reads as follows:. The electoral minority data shall be deleted from the electoral register if (a) the electoral office deletes the voter's membership of nationality from the central register on the basis of a request received by e-mail or without electronic identification no later than 16:00 on 30 March 2022, or if the electoral office amends the electoral data in the central register so that the registration of voters as a national electorate does not extend to the register of voters' elections. [ Ve. 249. § (paragraph 1) In other words, unsubscribement from the nationality register is permitted by the law or the IM regulation until 16:00 on the second day before the election, but at the same time it prohibits registration in the register 14 days earlier. This is a serious one-sided discrimination against Hungarian nationalities, which cannot be justified by anything, because for two weeks, the last two weeks of the campaign's intensiveness can be unsubscribed from the nationality register, but the possibility of enrollment is taken away from nationalities. Basically, we have to watch what happens to us for 14 days with our hands tied behind our backs, what they do to us. Our alternative proposal for resolving this: (a) The deadline for registration and unsubscribement in the national minority register shall be 9 a.m. on the second day before the election in case of electronic submission after personal or electronic identification, or on the third day before the election in case of electronic submission by letter of 16 hours or without electronic identification. If the adoption and implementation of this proposal would be a task which we do not know and which is not visible to election offices, then b) proposal b: the deadline for enrollment and unsubscribement in the national minority register should be 16 hours on the 14th day prior to the election. In other words, registration and unsubscribe must end at the same time in each case. [[17 .30]] The Committee of Hungarian Nationalities calls for and insists on the inclusion of these amendments in the bill, both because of the purity of the election and because of the elimination of this discrimination situation. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit!
u2023-05-03-156	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, DK Group. Here you go.
u2023-05-03-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I regret that our fellow Member Vejkey is no longer in the Chamber, but I must respond to his statement that Hungary today has a rule of law and democracy. No, there is no democracy or rule of law in Hungary today, if it were, for example, EU funds would come to Hungary, but they would not come. Hungary had a rule of law and democracy before 2010. [[An uproar in the ranks of the Fidesz.]] Yes, when EU funds came, when the State Audit Office was not led by a party soldier, when all parties in the media authority had representatives when the courts were not invaded [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Only the people didn't want it anymore!]] When, on public television, opposition fidesz MEPs were guests every single day and could express their views on the current affairs of the country. To simply say that there is democracy and a rule of law today is a mockery of democracy and the rule of law. Thank you very much.
u2023-05-03-158	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Péter Cseresnyés, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-05-03-159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If my colleague Zsolt Gréczy hadn't spoken, I probably wouldn't have pressed a button, but I would like to reject very briefly everything he said, precisely because of what we heard and heard during the previous speeches, that 2006 proves that they violated the rules of democracy and democracy themselves exactly when your government, Ferenc Gyurcsány, was in power. Then there was a street fight against peaceful protesters, then there were police attacks on the streets of Budapest, so I refuse. Think about what you're saying about democracy here. It is not your privilege to decide whether or not democracy is in Hungary [[Zsolt Gréczy: It's not yours! László Sebian-Petrovski: Because it is yours, surely!]] but you lie about it in your speech and on numerous occasions here in Parliament. I resent and reject what you say about democracy, today's democracy situation in Hungary! [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-03-160	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I cannot give the floor to Mr Zsolt Gréczy, because, according to the house rules, a representative may speak once per faction in a speaking session. If you ask for an opportunity to speak in a normal time frame, I will, of course, give you the opportunity. [[For signal:]] You have the floor.
u2023-05-03-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I understand Congressman Cseresnyés's anger, but in the autumn of 2006, there were not peaceful crowds, but people who set fire to windows and smashed cars. [[Peter Cseresnyés intervenes.]] And more policemen were injured in the fall of 2006 than those who destroyed the peace of the city. I would add that Fidesz scheduled this particular movement on the day when the world's leading powers celebrated the 50th anniversary of the revolution and war of independence in Budapest that morning. Otherwise, there is no more clear evidence of when there was democracy and a rule of law in Hungary than when the EU money came and the world's leading powers came here, and now there is no EU money coming and no one from the world's leading powers is coming here. So at that time, during the Gyurcsány government, there was a democracy and a rule of law, there was no rule of law and no democracy during the Orbán government. By the way, if you look at the records from the autumn of 2006, a Fidesz representative named András Nyitray complained at the committee meeting about why the police did not use sharp ammunition. So the Fidesz specifically wanted to shoot live ammunition into the crowd in 2006, Mr Cseresnyés can look back on this in the public, find the relevant report, so I do not want the Fidesz to lecture us on democracy, freedom and rule of law. Thank you very much. [[Péter Cseresnyés: You're lying, that's what it is.]] This fact, András Nyitray said, "Why don't you use live ammunition?" That's what András Nitray said, parentheses, Fidesz, parentheses closed. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-05-03-162	Dear Parliament, I ask if anyone else would like to speak, and I also think that we can slowly get back to the agenda. Congressman Gréczy's application for a two-minute speech is in, and we will overlook that. Would anyone else like to speak on the agenda? [[No one's reporting.]] No. No further comments were made, and the general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State if he would like to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2023-05-03-163	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am trying to stay on the subject of the bill, but let's say that the opposition representatives, Mr Sebian-Petrovsk, immediately took the debate to a dimension that was not included in the bill: it spoke of authoritarianism. Mr Gréczy has just said that before 2010, there was a democracy and a rule of law, and now there is no. Yeah, it's the only thing the voters don't know about. In 2010, the voters chose a new government with a large majority, the government that you say was the golden age was replaced in 2010 [[Zsolt Gréczy: They changed government in 2002 too!]] and that brought democracy, the rule of law and the support of the European Union, and I do not know, the leading powers of the world to Hungary. Well, the voters didn't want that. What do you say? You were sent away by a two-thirds majority. And ever since then, this government has obtained a two-thirds majority in every election... [[László Sebian-Petrovski: Because you made such an election system! Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] And you can't get out of the match, you can't...
u2023-05-03-164	Excuse me, Mr. Secretary. Congressman! I don't remember Mr. Secretary interrupting when you spoke. Thank you for your understanding. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2023-05-03-165	The thing is, Congressman, as long as the Democratic Coalition believes it is itself, it is its self-image that everything under your administration has been fine, but somehow it has not been made clear to the electorate, and you, thank God, will not be able to come out of this little pro-partyism or, at most, mid-partyism. But that's not my problem; I'm very hurt by their mistake or assessment of the situation that they think this proposal is some kind of authoritarian proposal. First of all, we have said that these are the technical proposals of the Election Office, the Election Office's proposal specifically on electronic administration that facilitates the electoral procedure and makes it smoother. This has indeed been sent to the parties, and I do not know what you have said, but a number of people have replied that these proposals are acceptable. That's what the ruling parties said. Of course, this proposal has nothing to do with the entire electoral system itself. But just to get back to the previous problem, I would like to point out that, according to the so-called old electoral law in force in 2010, this government has gained two thirds, and it has also gained two thirds under the new electoral rules in force since 2014. So, no matter how you look at it, it's not going to be for the Democratic Coalition or its predecessor to regain the power out of which the voters broke you off 13 years ago. So, honourable Members, this proposal has nothing to do with authoritarianism, but it has nothing to do with the rule of law or democracy. It has to do with, of course, changing the rules of electoral procedures a year before the elections, requiring clear electronic procedures to be fully legitimate and fully consistent with European standards. In practice, voters and parties have a year to prepare for this new change and amendment, which does not affect the substance, but only to amend procedural rules on some points. This amendment will take place a year before the elections, so you can prepare for this or prepare your constituents or prepare your activists. So there's no reason for them to be prepared for this election rule. [[17.40]] Dear House, If you would once initiate a political debate on when it was better, a long time ago or now, when there was greater democracy, a long time ago or now, I think you would meet quite prepared pro-government representatives in this debate. We would argue what happened in 2006 or even what happened in the 2010 elections. However, I am still asking you to stop hurting your country. Zsolt Gréczy's statement that we are being blamed for the fact that the European Union is withholding funds from Hungary has been revealed. They are throwing this at our eyes, while your party president admitted it, and their politicians admitted that they were working in the European Union to ensure that Hungary did not receive the money it owed. After that, we are faced with the fact that we are negotiating laws here on a daily basis that aim to break down these kinds of obstacles and bring the money that belongs to us to Hungary. And you are laughing at them because in the European Union, you are told snakes and frogs about the Hungarian government, and then you are told that it is the Hungarian government's fault that the left-wing leaders of the European Union listen to you. Dear House, This whole charade is getting a little boring. I think everyone understands that DK's politicians and left-wing politicians do nothing else in the European Parliament, in the European Union, only in Hungary, creating obstacles to Hungary so that Hungarians do not receive the money they deserve. That is not what this bill is about right now, but there was one such speech that I think had to be answered. I'm asking you to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-03-166	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your answers. To submit proposals for amendments... [[Zsolt Gréczy: European Union money is not coming from Brussels because of you!]] May I conclude the debate, Congressman? Thank you. The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Thank you for your understanding. I'm sorry, I'm not used to interrupting you. Dear Parliament, A general debate will follow on the bill on the amendment of individual laws to the role of the Minister of Agriculture until closure. The government referral is T/3768. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Sándor Farkas, Secretary of State of the Agricultural Ministry, Deputy Minister, author of the item on the agenda. Mr. Deputy Minister, please.
u2023-05-03-167	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before you proposes to amend 33 laws. In my speech, I briefly summarise the most important content of each of the amendments. The amendment to the Nature Protection Act seeks to address the problem that causes a difference in the precise definition of the location of Natura 2000 sites in another register of changes in one state register, namely the real estate register. So far, the areas have been defined by the location numbers listed in an annex to the legislation, but the changes in the number of localities resulting from the plot formations have not, or have only been followed by a significant delay in the amendment of the legislative annex, which has caused legal uncertainty in the interim. According to the bill, the membership of a given plot of land in the Natura 2000 area should also be established on the basis of the digital spatial information boundary of map gauges published by law. The amendment of the Law on Wildlife Protection and Wildlife Management and Hunting and the Law on the National Hungarian Hunting Chamber is of a technical nature. The amendment of the Law on Armed Security Guard, Nature Conservation and Field Guard combines the task of public area surveillance and field watchkeeping, thereby enabling municipalities to carry out their duties on public area supervision and field watch more effectively and at less cost. In addition, the bill allows verification of the proper use of the field guard's contribution. The amendment to the Act on Chambers of Business provides for the possibility of transferring data between the Chamber Register of Business Organisations and the Food Chain Monitoring Information System, i.e. the so-called FELIR identifier is entered in the register of Chambers of Commerce and Industry, thereby making the functions of the bodies concerned more efficient. The authorised provisions of the Trade Act concerning the professional qualifications required for the performance of certain industrial and commercial activities are amended in accordance with the government division of labour in the light of changes in the responsibilities of ministers. The amendment of the Act on certain aspects of the agricultural, agricultural and rural development and of the procedure relating to fisheries aid and other measures also includes technical provisions, as is the amendment of the expropriation law. The amendment to the Land Protection Act contains provisions to improve the protection of agricultural land of a higher quality than average. In addition, in the case of unauthorised recovery for other purposes, it lays down objective and subjective rules on the recovery of the original status and the limitation of the land-protection penalty, thereby ensuring consistency with the provisions of the Sanctions Act. A new register will be set up to provide uniform, comprehensive statistical data on the development of land resources for other uses to be authorised in the future and to assist the Authority in the implementation of investments in permit procedures and to assist the authorities in monitoring the reporting of crop changes. The amendment to the Food Chain and Official Surveillance Act includes amendments of a registration, control and epidemiological nature. The negative effects on the domestic economy, particularly external conditions such as inflation in food products, war situations, pandemics, require legislative provisions to ensure the smooth feeding of the population. To this end, it may be necessary to regulate the prices, supply volumes of certain foods and to ensure the stockpiling and production capacity of these foods. The wording of the legislative texts that provide for them will be significantly facilitated if the scope of basic foods is clearly defined in law, to which the legislative proposal provides for a regulation authorisation. The domestic experience of recent avian influenza epidemics has shown that very close animal holdings play a key role in the intensive spread of an outbreak. Compliance with strict disease control rules does not provide sufficient guarantees to prevent such spread. This risk can be significantly reduced by determining the nature of the disease and the professionally based protective distance to be respected, taking into account the spread of the pathogen. By preventing the spread of the epidemic, the harm to avian influenza epidemics with high national losses can be significantly reduced, and the duration of the epidemic may be shortened. The amendment of the forest law contains the necessary provisions to maintain long-term forest frying, since forest renovations are not covered by a clear distinction between official responsibilities. In order to address the problem, the amendment contains specific implementing provisions based on the practical experience of the institutions of the forest management activity ordered. Forest planting can take place in two ways, and I do not wish to read to you the details of this. XCV 2009 on the prohibition of unfair distribution of agricultural and food products to suppliers. The purpose of the amendment of Law 1 is, on the one hand, to provide technical clarification of a legislative harmonisation nature, to fully transpose Directive C-400/19 of the European Parliament and of the Council on unfair market practices in the agricultural and food supply chain, in business relations and by the European Court of Justice. In order to implement the judgment in Case No. [[17.50]] The amendment of the National Earth Fund Act contains a technical provision to clarify the legislation in respect of properties belonging to the National Earth Fund. By amending the Act on the Management of Weather and Other Natural Risks in Agricultural Production, certain procedural rules are clarified in addition to the concept of operational level in order to assist the work of intermediate bodies in the agricultural compensation scheme. The amendment also concerns the Compensation Fund, i.e. the Hungarian Treasury will receive information on any insurance that is relevant in terms of compensation in the future, with the introduction of a wide range of data on agricultural insurance. The bill also takes into account insurances concluded and charged before the injury event in order to promote producer self-care and, in the case of a change to the crisis insurance scheme, provides for an appropriate amount of additional compensation for farmers. The amendment of the Hungaricum Act concerns the composition of the Hungaricum Committee. By amending the Agricultural Chamber Act, detailed rules on the mandate of the Chamber will be transferred from the Agricultural Support Act to the Chamber Act, which is better suited to the scope of application. The amendment of the Mountain Villages Act introduces the concept of a registered reporting agent, which is a category integrating persons who are not members of the mountain community. This category includes vine growers and wine producers outside the wine region, as well as wine traders and wine traders. In addition, the bill contains detailed rules for the integration of mountain villages and for the certification of the conditions for the selection of vine delegates, which facilitate simplification in the case of payment of the mountain community contribution. Ladies and gentlemen, The provisions concerning the Law on fish management and the protection of fish include, in addition to technical amendments, the additions necessary for the operation in practice, as well as the possibility of development such as the electronic issue and management of certain fishing documents. In the case of fish production in the fisheries management water area registered under the amendment, the producer may take care of the conservation of own fish stocks on his own initiative, avoiding undue administrative and material burden. In the case of a permanent lack of water, in the case of a given month, the amendment provides a legal basis for determining the benefit in respect of the payment of the rent or the obligation to fish in the fishing plan. In view of the fact that the purchase price indicated in the foreign currency during the sale of the land is capable of deterring pre-sellers, the amendment of the Land Traffic Act requires that in the contract for the transfer of ownership of the land the consideration of the land must be indicated in the official currency, i.e. Hungarian forints, as defined in Article of the Fundamental Law, and that the consideration provided for in the contract can be met by the payment of this HUF. Under the provisions of the Land Traffic Act currently in force, the legal effects of the declaration of acceptance, the sale of land subject to official approval or, in the case of the use of the land, the decision of approval of the agricultural administration shall replace the contract buyer or landlord by this act. The publication of sales contracts by means of notices will take place on 1 July 2020 by means of publication on the government portal, which will allow for wider access, multi-faceted searches between published notices, as well as easier monitoring of the date of publication and the deadline for making a declaration, significantly simplifying the rules on land traffic and the exercise of the right to pre-emption. However, on the grounds of the administrative procedure and the disclosure, the property involved in the sale is in a form of contingent legal situation for an unduly long period of time. In the interests of traffic safety, the 60-day period for the exercise of the right of pre-emption should be shortened to 30 days. In the case of common property, the problem of the exploitation of both the immovable property belonging to the unattainable owner and the part of the property affected by the cancelled legacy procedure is adequately addressed by the legislation in force. The amendment to the Act on certain aspects of the organisation of the markets in agricultural products, producers' and interbranch organisations includes clarification, addition to the rules on the recognition and functioning of interbranch organisations and producer organisations in the aquaculture and fisheries sectors and the introduction of a sufficiently effective system of legal consequences to facilitate compliance with the payment deadline in order to protect farmers widely. By amending the Law on Irrigation Management, the bill allows economic operators to become members in irrigation communities that contribute to the efficient management of the irrigation community by other means, capital, means or other activities, not by the irrigation farming of the land in use, but by other means; of course, the vast majority of Community members, three quarters, must continue to have land use rights. Based on the experience gained from the recognition process of more than 150 irrigation communities, it is necessary to clarify the areas of each size category, which will be checked on the basis of the single area payment recovery code issued by the Hungarian Treasury in the future. The amendment to the Law on the elimination of undivided common property on land and the real estate registration of land holders includes additional provisions other than general real estate registration rules in respect of immovable property with a view to the specialization of procedures for the elimination of undivided common property on land. The amendment establishes the integration of the deletion of the enforcement right into the procedures for the abolition of common ownership, in particular in order to ensure that, in the event of a failure of the procedure for the termination of the common ownership, the removal of the enforcement right should not take place but, in the case of the successful conduct of the procedure, the acquisition of non-executive property should be ensured. The amendment of the Family Farms Act aims to clarify the prima facie register, taking into account customer data claims, and to clarify the concept of family chain. Up to now, the membership status has been terminated if the family chain for the member has been broken, but the amendment makes it clear that the death of the spouse does not result in the interruption of the family chain and thus the termination of the membership relationship. Most of the amendments to the Law on Vine and Winery contain technical clarifications. The acquisition of the necessary contributions to the installation is often disproportionate and, therefore, in order to implement the plantings, the proposal regulates the cases in which the request for a contribution is to be considered as being delivered to the holder and the consent is deemed to be granted by the holder. The proposal provides for the application of a sanction in the event of failure to cultivation of vineyards. The reason for this is that there is a very high number of uneducated plantations in some wine regions, which, inter alia, makes it difficult for other producers to manage properly due to the proliferation of diseases and pathogens. Dear Parliament, On the basis of what has been said, you can see that the amendments discussed are minor and largely technical, but these minor corrections still provide meaningful assistance for the farmers or businesses concerned. I therefore call on my fellow Members to support the adoption of the bill on the basis of the reasons given. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[18.00]] (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2023-05-03-168	Thank you, thank you, Mr Sándor Farkas, for your thoughts. The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr István Horváth, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2023-05-03-169	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In the national expozee, the Deputy Minister presented in detail the bill before us, which we can call the salad law for a reason, since it amends 33 laws relating to the agricultural sector. The bill contains several technical amendments and clarifications. In many cases it creates consistency with other laws and transposes EU directives into domestic legislation. Dear Parliament, The Law on Health Authority and Administrative Activities has been amended in a technical manner to use terminology in accordance with the Food Chain and Official Surveillance Act. It creates harmony between the two laws. The amendment to the Nature Protection Act was justified in order to specify the location of Natura 2000 sites. In addition, the amendment is linked to the rules of procedure for the registration of real estate. From now on, the registration of protected, highly protected and Natura 2000 areas in the real estate register can be based not on geographical numbers, but on map gauges. The bill also contains an amendment whereby, instead of the veterinary authority, the authorisation of the nature protection authority is required for the establishment, maintenance and operation of zoos, collections of animals, other wildlife-protected establishments, sites for their training. The amendment of the bill on wildlife protection, wildlife management and hunting and the bill on the National Hungarian Hunting Chamber is technical. The amendment of the Law on Armed Security Guard, Nature Conservation and Field Guard ensures that local authorities carry out their duties in connection with public area supervision and field guard service in an organisation. In this way, the field watchkeeping activities can be carried out more efficiently and at lower costs. The operation of the field watch is subject to the possibility for public area supervisors to carry out field guard duties for half their working time in the stock of the body merged with the public area surveillance. In addition to the above, the amendment states that the way in which the agricultural administration, i.e. the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy, will in future verify the proper use of the agricultural contribution. The amendment of the Act on Chambers of Economy increases efficiency. The amendment provides for the possibility of transferring data between the register of companies in the Chambers and the information system for food chain monitoring. The functions of the bodies concerned will become more efficient. The amendment of the Trade Act and its empowering provisions on professional qualifications for the performance of certain industrial and commercial activities do not reflect the current division of government labour. In view of the draft, the Government decree on the tasks and powers of the members of the government is amended in accordance with the division of government labour. In view of the entry into force of Act C of 2021 on the Real Estate Register on 1 February 2024 of the Act on certain aspects of procedures relating to agricultural, agricultural, rural development and fisheries aid and other measures, it contains clarifications and technical provisions relating to the procedure relating to the registration of real estate. The proposal to amend the expropriation law also contains technical provisions. I would like to highlight the amendment to the Land Protection Act. I welcome the government's decision to introduce restrictive provisions to improve the protection of agricultural land of a higher quality than average. It allows the permanent use of agricultural land of less than average quality for other purposes, thus avoiding the extraction of high-quality agricultural land from cultivation. As I have mentioned, the amendment aims to improve the protection of agricultural land of higher quality than average: those who want to permanently use such quality agricultural land for a different purpose will be considered nullity. Furthermore, the amending proposal also lays down objective and subjective provisions on the recovery of the original status in the case of non-licensed recovery and the limitation of the land-protection penalty, thereby ensuring consistency with the provisions of the Law on penalties for administrative infringements. The purpose of the new register to be introduced with the plan is to provide uniform, comprehensive statistical data on land loss in the case of other uses to be authorised in the future, as well as to assist the investigation to be carried out in the course of authorisation procedures and the control tasks of the real estate registration authority, so that it can also serve as a basis for monitoring the implementation of investments and the reporting of changes in cultivation. It is a new provision for Regulation (EC) No 2020/74 of the European Parliament and of the Council on minimum water recycling requirements. The amendment is intended to lay down the provisions necessary for the implementation of the abovementioned Regulation. The amendment of the Law on Food Chain and Official Surveillance is linked to the amendment of the Act on Chambers of Economy. The amendment provides for the transfer of data recorded in the food chain monitoring information system to the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. In addition, the Food Chain Safety Centrum Nonprofit Kft. expands. to manage and ensure the publication of data assets generated in agriculture and the food chain and to operate the FELIR more effectively. The proposal sets out the concept of basic foods, the scope of food that falls within this concept, and the definition of the protection distance between livestock establishments due to exceptional food chain events. This measure will make it easier to prevent outbreaks and spread of possible animal diseases. The purpose of the amendment to the Forest, Forest Protection and Forestry Act is to be consistent with Article P of the Fundamental Law, under which forests, as natural resources, are the common heritage of our nation, whose protection, maintenance, preservation for future generations, is the duty of the state and everyone. The amendment is aimed at addressing a problem, and there is a lack of forest renovations. In order to address the failure, the forestry authority may require replacements instead of forest protection contributions. In this respect, after extraction, it is necessary not to make forest protection contributions but to replace them in another area. Furthermore, the proposal seeks to clarify the legal situation of bodies built in forest areas, which have been built for several decades, and their registration status is not properly arranged. The purpose of the amendment to the Act on the prohibition of unfair distribution of agricultural and food products against suppliers is to harmonise the provisions of Directive 2019/633 of the European Parliament and of the Council on unfair market practices in the agricultural food supply chain in relation to business. The amendment of the National Earth Fund Act is of a technical nature, which facilitates the interpretation of the provisions and serves the development of irrigation. Dear Parliament, By amending the Act on the management of weather and other natural risks to agricultural production, we can help the bodies involved in the agricultural compensation scheme. To this end, the scope of reporting of insurance companies will be extended. Insurance undertakings provide data not only on premium-supported agricultural insurance but also on all insurances relevant to compensation. In addition, the proposal amends the rules on compensation and additional compensation for crisis insurance. [[18.10]] The amendment to the Public Service Officers Act became necessary because those employed in the Food Chain Supervisory Body are covered by the Government Administration Act. The law will be amended accordingly. The amendment of the Hungarian National Values and Hungaricum Act concerns the range of organisations and persons entitled to delegate to the Hungaricum Committee in the light of the current government division of labour. The reason for the amendment of the Law on the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy is that the detailed rules of the Chamber's mandate are transferred to the Chamber Act more appropriate to the scope of application. The amendment to the Mountain Villages Act introduces the concept of a registered reporting agent, which is the consolidated category of persons who are not members of the mountain village and who are not members of the voluntary mountain village. This includes wine-growing producers and wine-growing producers outside the wine region, wine-traders and wine-traders. The draft lays down rules clarifying the conditions for the integration of mountain villages, for the certification of the eligibility of the vine delegation and for the payment of the mountain community contribution. In addition to the technical amendment to the Law on fish management and the protection of fish, it contains the necessary additions to the practical operation. It also provides development opportunities such as the electronic issue and management of certain fishing documents. In order to avoid unnecessary material and administrative burden, the producer may, on his own responsibility, arrange for the conservation of his own fish stocks in the case of fish production in the registered fish management water area. The persistent lack of water makes it impossible to carry out fishing activities, and in many cases it may be necessary to support those who are entitled to fish farming. The draft amendment provides an opportunity to establish discounts on the payment of the rent. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment to the Land Traffic Act includes amendments to the over-use agreement and to land traffic. In this context, in the contract for the transfer of land ownership, the consideration of land shall be determined in the currency referred to in Article K of the Fundamental Law, i.e. forints. The duration of pre-purchase will be reduced from the previous 60 days to 30 days. The Act on certain provisions and transitional arrangements under this Act will provide for a presumption of exclusive ownership. The amendment of the laws on the transfer of agricultural holdings, the tax regime, the settlement of land ownership under land-use rights in cooperatives and the amendment of certain land-related laws and certain aspects of the organisation of agricultural markets, producers' and inter-branch organisations contains technical clarifications. The amendment of the Law on Irrigation Management ensures that irrigation communities operate and maintain more effectively. The Family Farms Act aims to clarify the prima facie register. The amendment of the Law on the liquidation of undivided common property on land contains additional provisions on immovable property subject to enforcement, in view of the specific nature of the procedures for the elimination of undivided common property on land. As part of the amendment of the Law on Vine and Winery, it expands the concepts contained in the Law, extending deadlines for the control of new plantings and grubbing-ups. The draft provides for the application of sanctions in respect of non-cultivation of vineyards, thereby reducing the number of uneducated plantations, reducing the potential for the spread of diseases and pathogens. The amendment of the law on the procedural arrangements for agricultural subsidies granted from the common agricultural policy and from the national budget was justified in order to clarify the laws applicable in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Thank you for listening. Please support the bill before us in order to improve our Hungarian agricultural administration system. Please accept it. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-03-170	Thank you very much, Congressman István Horváth. I now give the floor to Mrs Judit Ráczné Földi, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2023-05-03-171	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, We are pleased that the Honourable Minister and the Ministry have been working on the work again, instead of often embarrassing visual politics in the previous months. We are also pleased that the Minister of Agriculture is finally doing what he is supposed to do instead of signing the mood-raising petitions of organisations with Fidesz leadership and meeting the political needs of the leaders, that is to say, trying to solve the growing problems of agriculture. Despite production reports and government hurrah, the situation in the sector is very sad. The Democratic Coalition and the shadow government are struggling to improve the situation of farmers. DK considers that the Orbán government has committed a historical crime by destroying Hungarian agriculture in 12 years with such a significant EU support system. The agriculture that is now in need of imports of corn, which, according to ministry leaders, can supply 20 million people. In Hungary, in an agricultural country, food prices are 40 percent higher in stores in a year. All this is a confession to the fact that in 12 years Hungarian agriculture has been destroyed. Hungary should produce Europe's cheapest foods through its talents, instead food prices are historically high and Hungarian farmers are strangled by bills. The climate crisis has shown itself in the face of devastating droughts, yet the irrigation systems in the country are still only being designed. Currently it could be irrigated at 1.2 million hectares in Hungary, but this can only be done at 110 to 120 thousand hectares. It is also a talkative fact that while only 30 percent of the water resources that can be used for agriculture are used in Hungary, the European average is 80 percent. But one thing has been achieved in 13 years: Hungarian agriculture, thanks to the Orbán government, has become an extremely feudal sector for the few, while the rural depopulation continues. In 12 years, the Orbán government has developed NER-udalism. On average, in March 2023 consumer prices were 25.2% higher than a year earlier in Hungary. Food prices have risen 42,6 percent. This is unacceptable in an agricultural country. There's something fatally wrong here in the past few days. We have the highest inflation rate in the EU. We bravely passed the bend, so we ended up in the field. Will the amendments help to reduce inflation? Will the proposals help to halt the fall in the turnover of retail shops, which are the take-up markets for agriculture, which has shown a 10.1 percent decrease in a year? Or to stop the decline in domestic tourism linked to the food industry? Because the number of domestic guests decreased by 11 percent and the number of guest nights decreased by 13 percent in one year. Csaba Gyuricza, Rector of the Hungarian University of Agricultural and Life Sciences, said not so long ago that Hungary could see that it did not keep up with the global agricultural recovery, since if we look at the efficiency of domestic agriculture from the beginning of the 1990s, it did not reach this 78 percent, but even stagnation. What we know and see is that we are relatively good at agricultural production, but our country must clearly improve in the raw material manufacturing industry and its productivity indicators. Will these changes help to increase efficiency? Does this bill help to solve the drastic reduction in the number of animals slaughtered in slaughterhouses in Hungary in 2022? Or that in 2022 the amount of fertilizer sold was 32.4 percent less than a year earlier? Why do we eat sea fish in a country rich in wild and fish, and why do Hungarians consume little game meat? [[18.20]] Or there's the problem of irrigation. Is that what you're gonna do? You said that in 2022 there was a severe drought in 80% of the country's agricultural areas, of which drought damage was reported to 1.45 million hectares. To compensate for the damage in 2022, the eligible holder of HUF 50.6 billion will be paid up to 31 March 2023. Farmers obviously thank you for your help, but last year, due to drought, about 30 percent of agricultural emissions were lost, the economic damage was HUF 500 billion. Even though the large number of irrigation communities, and despite the fact that the Ministry is extending the tenders for irrigation development, it is not apparent that the size of irrigated areas is increasing, and let's face it, this is not acceptable in the century of climate change. Will these legislative proposals help to launch proposals this semester on the basis of the Commission's strategic plan adopted on 7 November 2022? Farmers are looking forward to these new opportunities. The bill amending certain laws before us concerning the function of the Minister of Agriculture is a salad law involving the amendment of 33 laws, so the name and address of the law are misleading. This large bill was presented just one day before the holiday of the work. Well, that's very symbolic. Why should such a large salad law involving so many sectors be negotiated on such short notice? It can be seen from the proposal that it has corrected many problems that have been unsolved for years, such as the definition of agricultural insurance or the definition of conflicts of interest in mountain communities, but, for example, we are missing the abolition of the land tax announced by the Great Dyrrel Dur. We have an opinion on all of these amendments, but I would like to highlight some of them and put them in particular. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: Paragraph 2 amends paragraph 11 of the Land Protection Act. Here in the original text, it's ten years. What is the reason for the three-year amendment? It's 85. The provision of information to insurance undertakings will be extended in section 5. They were agreed with the insurance companies, and why didn't the bond numbers of the contracts have to be sent so far? Art. 92. Paragraph 5 amends the list of persons delegated to the Hungaricum Committee. I understand that the range of organisations or persons entitled to delegate to the committee should be amended in the light of current government division of labour, but not why the Minister for Regional Development is excluded from the delegation. Point 106 is replaced by the following: We understand precisely the problem to be addressed by §8. I would like to ask whether there is an amendment or other amendment to the grounds for excluding the position of judge of the mountains due to a specific matter. 168. Is there any chance that the amendment to the section might cause a quality, taste problem? Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the opposition ranks.]]
u2023-05-03-172	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Judit Ráczné Earth. I now give the floor to Mr János Bencze, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2023-05-03-173	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, We see a huge substance before us; we could also call it the salad law, as an agricultural practitioners, so I approached it. What I see in it is that it contains a lot of practical material, a practical and technical amendment that will make our work easier. I see problems in it, and I have a sense of absence, and we've looked at several points. I'd like to approach the whole thing in practical terms. So there's one important thing: I'm very happy that things change with irrigation associations, they extend, and it looks like they've heard the farmers' voice, the word of practical farmers. It lacks the concept of water retention itself. I hope that it will be written in the long term, and we will get a more serious law on this, a more serious proposal on how Hungary will keep the water flowing both at large and locally; this will be a priority for the future because of the water retention capacity of the soils. There are a number of technologies for it, and there are many associations, many associations that deal with it. I very much hope that next year we can also read a material where Hungary will go for water retention on the ground due to drought damage. This is very important because we do not need to highlight, water, or strengthen the salinity of the water that is kept locally, and we will definitely need this. It is a particularly fortunate thing that, compared to last year, God has helped us farmers this year and helps production in the form of precipitation, but this will not always be the case, so I would like to address this as a priority problem. I used to say in this House that I would like to see, once a year, a drought budget that will prevent future droughts, and most of the money that can be used freely either from the EU or from the domestic budget, will focus on this, whether it is on large rivers or on local channels. Here I would like to refer to one or two events in this period, which, unfortunately, anticipates how some beneficial people benefit from this: these particular showerers. Build those that will increase the benefits of farmers and not the benefits of certain economic circles and mobsters. That would be one of them. The other is that the forest law has very good technical amendments, and the forest farmers welcome it, so they think it's good. For many long years they have been struggling to get these in, but farmers have drawn attention to another problem, especially here, in terms of exchange areas. Because in Hungary it is a very good thing that we forest and forest large areas, because this increases the water retention capacity of soils, but also has a part that is harmful to agricultural production in two respects. Rapidly placed forest areas and forest spots in agricultural areas increase the chance of wild harm. So on one side we're fighting the wildlife damage, on the other side a farmer, let's say I think it's because of poorly thought-out laws that you can plant a forest, and the production of crops in a given agricultural area can increase the wildlife damage by several times. There's another problem that occurs mainly on soils with poor water retention, but we also have one in the Transdanubian Hills. It is important to know that the roots of most crops go deep, take water from a deeper layer, and in the forests planted next to the production areas, these plants will suffer water scarcity, as the root of the forest goes deeper. Here they would ask for thought, a kind of central planning concept, listening to the locals as well. That would be the suggestion here. And then there's one more thing that's sad about it, but we're particularly happy about it, and we say that the test of pudding is eating: it's the quality assurance of feed. I can't exactly quote the paragraph right now, but it seems to us now, and if it works, then it will work out that they will be strictly involved with feed traders, feed mixers, who are putting on the market poor quality feed. They must be strictly sanctioned, it was a request, and we have seen that they have been heard, as this has appeared for feed materials of poor quality imported by skilled traders from Ukraine. To illustrate a practical problem: those who were in the countryside went to farmers were faced with a problem in the dairy cow population that, if the cattle received such a suspicious feed, a nutrient mixture, the fertility rate would be lower than artificial insemination. Some farmers had these feeds tested in masks, so to speak, and found them of poor quality. So, if this legislative amendment works and these people, from crop traders to distributors, are struck harshly, this will have a positive effect, but if they do not respect it for any reason, this will result in very bad conditions in Hungarian agriculture, because it seems that Ukrainian grain flows will not end in the long term, according to the European Union's intentions. We must certainly prepare for this and prepare ourselves with similar strict legislation both in trade and in imports and in distribution. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2023-05-03-174	Thank you very much, Mr János Bencze. I now give the floor to Dávid Dócs, the lead speaker of the group of our countries. You have the floor, Mr. Notary. [[18.30]]
u2023-05-03-175	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the floor. I am pleased to say that the amendment of the law before us, which would apply to 33 laws, contains parts that are welcome to us, as the elimination of the undivided common ownership has long been waiting for you, since there are plenty of land in the whole country that cannot really be cultivated that cannot be managed effectively. The protection of better-than-average soils is also welcome, although it sounds a little shady after you managed to do the shameful thing that, besides Debrecen, in the best Hungarian fields, 45 golden crowned fields, a Korean battery factory exists. The elimination of the purchase of land in foreign currency is also welcome to buy these lands only at a price fixed in Hungarian forints, but I think that this is a recognition of the sale of industrialised land acquired by foreigners; as I have repeatedly raised this issue and this problem here in Parliament and in the Committee on Agriculture, and I have always received no answers and no answers for me and not for me, but for the public and the public; but I do not receive such answers and not such messages from my fellow farmers from the Danube. Here is the impact of Ukrainian imports on Hungarian agriculture, which is tangible in several areas, as it has not only caused huge destruction and has also resulted not only in respect of oil seeds and cereals, but also in the case of beekeepers. Because of this, quite a lot of farmers' activities and even their survival simply became questionable, as their containers are full of last year's grain stored for a better price, which they cannot now sell for one third of last year's harvest price, so they are trapped in a huge trap. This trap, I think, cannot be removed without government help, cannot be dissolved, and I therefore ask the government and the Agricultural Ministry with the utmost respect for this priority, and for the survival of these farmers, please do everything you can. Now, if you'll excuse me, I've been trying to sort out my thoughts, but speaking of salad law, it's too big a deal, so I've prepared a salad bar, and I'd like to introduce it to you. I cannot stress enough that our country has always been able to rely primarily on its agricultural qualities in our history. However, Hungarian farmers cannot rely on the Hungarian government in this time of distress either, because instead of reducing their increased burden, they continue to increase, I am thinking about the costs of the permit procedure of the wells, and I am happy to add in brackets that the Agricultural Ministry, in opposition to the government, has tried to lead this issue practically out of public opinion, and we hope that this moratorium will continue to be pushed forward. Then there are the increased energy prices, the increasing chamber membership fees, which are also difficult for the small ones, and the large ones thank you very much, because of the ceiling they will pay less than before, but I could still tell you the problems, and instead of setting up the agricultural prosperity trip, the infinite support for the multinationals and the battery factories built for foreign workers are the main directions of government's economic policy, instead of really trying to correct the Hungarian agriculture after 13 years of governance. The period of the coronal virus has also demonstrated what a disaster and panic can lead to if a country is vulnerable to food self-sufficiency and food procurement, and this is what huge food inflation has put a shovel on it. Our country should once again play the role of Europe's pantry with the recovery of agriculture and industry, in our view, and therefore our country's economic driving sector should be the production of food, not the controversial, divisive and extremely environmentally harmful battery production. On the other hand, what is your position, and when did the horse's foot begin to hang out? After the scandals around the CATL factory in Debrecen, the new Fidesz government miracle weapon, the battery production, received a national spotlight. However, to understand this trend, we need to go back a few years in time. In 2017, Viktor Orbán spoke at the inauguration ceremony of the Samsung factory in Göd about his desire to build the future of the Hungarian economy on this area. However, this economic direction has a number of problematic aspects in itself. First of all, I would like to mention the factor that is closest to my heart, agricultural concerns. The area of the Debrecen Battery Factory is particularly shocking in this respect, as I have just mentioned, since the country's most valuable lands, in many cases 45 crowned land, are made infertile and uneducated in 221 hectares. These areas were acquired by their new owners by extortion, threats, and expropriation procedures from their former owners, who had managed them until now and used them for their purpose. In particular, it is incomprehensible that, when the protection of agricultural land is also enshrined in the Fundamental Law, when we know that the land is a limited resource at our disposal, when we know that our land is constantly being eroded and exhausted, why does the government prefer greenfield investments in such constructions when the industrial areas inherited from socialist times are being destroyed unusable throughout the country? Instead of recultivation or recycling, they now allow for the industrial destruction of new agricultural land areas and support this by hundreds of billions of state aids. But let's see what exactly they support with the Hungarian taxpayers' money! The annual emissions of CO2 from the factory are 288 thousand tonnes, and its daily water demand is estimated to be up to 6200 cubic metres. But in addition to the dry numbers, the presence of migrant workers arriving in the short term with their mass will in many cases be felt by the presence of increased passenger and freight traffic. In the previous system, it has already been proven that we are not a country of iron and steel, but we have always been a pantry of Europe. In Nuremberg there is a statue of a Hungarian grey cattle in front of the market, which proves that first-class Hungarian beef has been highly preferred and preferred throughout Europe. According to our Homeland Movement, we should become a great power in the food industry, not a battery factory or an automotive assembly power. In addition to the incorporation of our lands, there are more inexplicable sins of the governments of the last three decades that we can safely call treason in the strictest sense of the word. In the last 30 years, unfortunately, more and more Hungarian families have left the Hungarian countryside and, in worse cases, the country itself, and this is re-creating the renaissance because of negative economic and social processes. Thus, not only our lands are being eroded, but also our nation; and it follows that, since the land is strategic, it will not remain on parlag, as capitalist farmers are often foreigners; they buy up every inch of the square inch, so the treachery and sale of the country is still taking place, and instead of real protection, we have already lost county areas. The number of these areas is increasing on Transdanubia, and the appetite of foreign farmers and investors possessing these areas is insatiable, so their expansion is guaranteed, because ever since the world has been around, every land has owned it. And if it is not the Hungarians, then it will be owned by someone else; but it will be seen as a place of livelihood, a mere exploitable resource. Our Hungary would like to give our country agriculture where Hungarian small farmers and family farms can prevail, and not Austrian farmers will be monopolised. That is why we cannot give up on it, and we must fundamentally change our attitude towards Hungarian land and Hungarian agriculture. It is necessary to lead people who are separated from the ground, dependent on the shelves of large shopping malls, vulnerable and exploited to the world of agriculture, environmental awareness, sustainability and self-preservation; all the more so, as we are more than a thousand-year-old agricultural country, agriculture is now on a landing track, which should be turned into one of the driving sectors of our national economy, and if it will depend on our country, it will also be one day. It is a shame that, in the area of food self-determination, Bulgaria is the only one behind us in the whole European Union. Our next shame is that the other issue of national strategy, the correct water management, is in ruins, because we live in a pool in vain, if we slowly dry out and become deserted, and we do not prove it any better than that Hungary is situated in a pool, even though this truncated country is left with more water than it has arrived. Thus, it is easy to see that without proper water management, the Hungarian economy can hardly achieve what we call self-determination and self-preservation. Our country is at a constant pace disadvantage in dealing with changing climate situations, so those affected have not received enough help from the incumbent governments, and they are waiting for a number of investments that would have been necessary a long time ago. [[18.40]] I would mention, as a concrete example, that the construction of the dam planned for Tisza between Csongrád and Bokros or the Danube-Tisza canal has been peaked for decades, even though locals believe that the region will no longer survive such a drought, nor will farmers, many of whom were destroyed in 2022 due to water scarcity and resulting production difficulties, falling averages. I asked the Ministry of Agriculture with a written question, which was passed over to the Ministry of Interior, to which the State Secretary Bence Rétvári replied, but I did not get a clear answer to my three written questions, but he referred me back to his previous answers, and I did not know that this water escape was going to be built at all, or that it was going to be a plan forever. In addition to the fact that we are running out of water, it has to be mentioned that there are more than a thousand settlements in Hungary, according to the KSH study, this is one third of the settlements in Hungary, where there is no utility drainage network at all, which means that there is an extremely heavy soil load on the given region, which is also a huge burden on our natural waters. Instead of lack of political will and damage caused by omissions, we want real practical results, sustainable water management. In addition to the construction of the Danube-Tisza and other channels, there is also a need for reservoir systems, not only to ensure the possibility of irrigation, but also to maintain the water level of the soil in order to avoid an ecological disaster. Protecting the earth, water, nature and air must be the primary objective for our future, for future generations. This is all one of our national treasures, but in order to preserve the values of our country, which has been mutilated in Trianon, we must strive to create a synergy. This means that these sectors, these segments, must be treated as one, since they have an impact on each other. Therefore, the protection of the land, in Hungarian hands and in cultivation must be a nation-wide strategic goal, as well as the proper and forward-looking management of water, as well as in terms of sustainable flora and fauna, in synchronised agriculture and forestry; as well as with the involvement and professional observation of landowners, the amendment of the hunting law would be necessary, as the current legislation clearly favours the hunter, puts the forest farmer, farmer and landowner in a completely vulnerable position and deprives him of the exercise of his fundamental rights and the possibility of efficient and profitable management. Hunting legislation puts forest farmers and farmers and landowners in a difficult situation, even though it is organically linked to this activity, since they have wildlife management in their territory, theirs and theirs. The legal environment should be modified and fine-tuned so that landowners are not suppressed but treated as equal partners and given the opportunity, on the basis of subjective rights and landowners, to protect and preserve the areas they have cultivated and the goods they produce, so that hunting is not a privilege of favourites and service providers of politics, but a profession with a long history of recognition, respect and indeed of hunting and maintaining a natural balance. We believe that agriculture must be the key to our future, but this requires the changes that I have presented, that the Agricultural Ministry should not operate on a political but real professional basis, which, thanks to the current legislative amendment, also contains traces of such professional proposals. In conclusion, the difference between Fidesz and Mi Hazan's policy is that while you place Hungarian small businesses and family farms first in order of importance, but also foreign big companies and entrepreneurs, Hungarian land, domestic water resources and nature are the most important things for us, so we will do everything we can to protect them. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-05-03-176	Thank you very much, Congressman Dócs. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Two-minute speeches are possible. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I do not see a candidate for any other speeches. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. Apparently, Deputy Secretary Farkas is preparing. I give you the floor to respond to what has been said in this debate.
u2023-05-03-177	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I feel a little bit like I once had in my first parliamentary term, which was 1998-2002, and I don't want to brag about it, there were huge debates and fights in these benches, especially when it came to agricultural issues, there were bloody battles. Now, compared to that, today's been a lot quieter. Of course, with regard to the 33 amendments to the law, which Dávid Dócs apologizes for, with his last thought, trying to answer the questions asked, he says that there are traces of professional questions... I don't know what 33 laws mean to you, which is a professional law, I think you speak for yourself, and I don't think there are traces. This more than a hundred paragraphs, I think you speak for yourself. But I don't want this to get out of hand, so I'd like to get in line. Thank you very much for the detailed addition of my colleague, Mr István Horváth. In particular, he stressed the ideas about the protection of land, which others raised. Mrs Judit Ráczné Földi: I was an active farmer for 40 or a few years. I have lived through it, and now I can say after the change of regime; then Minister Torgyan, your ministers, ours. There's one thing I'd like to clarify. What have you done before 2004 in relation to EU accession for Hungarian agriculture? He's been betrayed until the last minute! The biggest loser of EU accession was the Hungarian countryside and Hungarian agriculture. I would like to make this clear, and we can look into this, and during the accession negotiations at the time, Hungarian agriculture was described by you. Now don't ask me to do this because if we look back now, what has happened since 2010? I can prove by numbers not only the support. Now I don't want to lose in the details how much agricultural support there was, how much land-based and how much food or whatever support it was, but it's sky and earth. We've never had this kind of support system before. None of Hungary's governments took the agricultural sector seriously outside the current one; and Hungarian agriculture is now a strategic sector in the government as well. The fact that it is a strategic sector is accepted in Brussels, i.e. in the course of cooperation, the 80 percent additional support, which is also added by the Hungarian government. Not only did such money go to agriculture, but it never went to the Hungarian countryside, and it certainly didn't go at your age. I don't want to hurt you right now, because you've got this stuff to tell me in public. I understand, because when I was an opposition representative, I tried the government in the same way... with Mr. Congressman we have known each other here in Parliament for a long time, we know this genre perfectly; it would be good to stay on the ground of reality only because what you have read to us here on our heads raises quite a lot of objections, not least some excuse. The fact that prices are rising, you know as well as I do: when did these prices get free? Now, two years and a half ago. There was no inflation before. If we look at how the performance of Hungarian agriculture has evolved in recent years, how it has evolved, I am sure we would have preferred that if it had achieved higher values, but I would like to add that the improvements and investments that we started in 2016-2017 will now have results. But this applies not only to agriculture, but also to industrial development, rural development and other developments. With regard to the Hungarian national economy, we are still talking about economic stability and growth, not a recession in this troubled world. That's the result. And to question that, I'm sorry, but I can't accept that. Of course, you have the right to say that, clearly. Price rises: we see, we experience. If a farmer obtains energy at the price he has obtained, he can obtain plant protection products at the price he has obtained, he can obtain agricultural chemicals, various active substances, fertilizers as he was able to obtain them; seeds prices, which, unfortunately for a large part, are foreign seeds, I say to ourselves, as a criticism, that we will have to pay more attention to this, they were all price-raising factors which alone increased the price of the raw material. [[18.50]] But I didn't remember exactly who I said the other day, but one of my fellow Members here just asked us not to forget the price of raw materials that both manufacturing and trade were naughty in this, because it wasn't clearly the farmers that caused inflation, but rather the processors and trade chains that already show and show us tangible prices on the shelf. So again, this was not, in a significant part, an agricultural issue, but, in my view, a trade policy issue. Everyone's talking about irrigation. I am an irrigation and melioration engineer, so thank you very much for asking me this question, because I have a lot to talk about. I think we should open a separate debate or talk about it, and I'm very happy to be of service to you. I consider myself an experienced irrigation specialist and built linear equipment on hundreds or thousands of hectares, when I was the government commissioner for the field-hegyes stud estates, that's when we started the irrigation development to double the immediately irrigable areas. So I do not want to abuse my right in this professional debate, if I may say so, but please accept one thing: without irrigation farming, we know very well that there is no future agriculture or agriculture of the future, but there are no intensive cultures that are inevitable either in seed production or in the cultivation of arable canning crops. If we look back at the practice now, I won't say a name for the sake of advertising, a processing company or a canned company in the contract states that they will only conclude contracts under irrigated conditions. It speaks for itself, that's how it is in practice. In terms of why there is no irrigation in a larger area, we can go back far enough, even until the middle of the 1980s, when there were some 360-370 thousand hectares of irrigated land in Hungary, because then there were small circles of irrigation systems, the Cibakháza, the Tiszaföldvár, down to the Pékés counties, Csongrád, and partly a few Bács-Kiskun, also beyond the Danube. Unfortunately, if I may say so, it is now possible for me to be hurt because I am a believer in this, but I would be happy to accept these large systems at any time, then we have destroyed them. I personally lived in my own farm at that time, how these systems failed. Let's just say I had the brains, if I may, and I'm going to turn that into private again, that we didn't assign those irrigation plants to a compensation fund, because four types of land could be assigned to a compensation fund, but we left them right back there to see if we could save it. Interestingly, he stayed behind without a single lawsuit, and every afternoon at 1 p.m., the compensation auction was over. You could do it fair and square. It would have been great if other people had done this. I'm not referring to myself again, but I can prove that I could have. Unfortunately, that's where this incident slipped. After that, we'd be rushing or trying to catch up, which is why irrigation development opportunities are open. I know it's not enough. Now, however, legal entities or businesses can also be involved in irrigation communities, which is very important, because there are still a few places, either a water management company or an Ltd. that provides water in certain places. It is therefore important that this amendment be included. So who has ruined agriculture, I would like to strongly reject it. Allow me to say that it is not the Fidesz and not the civilian government. He asked the land tax as a question. It's not in the salad law, but it's gonna come before Parliament this semester, and I'd like to reassure you. I'll give you just one example, one number on livestock production, because tomorrow is the opening of livestock days in Hódmezővásárhely, so I can't say anything more relevant. There were 2,500 grants and 490 billion forints in support of livestock farmers last year alone. I don't want to go on with the details. I wish I could tell you about the other sectors. On behalf of my fellow Member, Mr Bencze, there was also a question of irrigation farming, water saving, and so on. We've prepared a professional material, all of which are included in this. In fact, I could say that if this economic and war crisis didn't come, I think we'd be over this discussion, but it would be irresponsible to jump into such a thousands of billion-dollar development right now, to start it, and I'm the one who was a part of it, that I'd be more careful about it at the moment. It is not a question of starting to think about watering in certain areas. But to do that, we need another party, and this is the farming community. Why is the irrigation development tender open? Because they didn't apply. Why didn't they apply? Because it was a drought? That's not true. It's not true because in 2022, machinery companies made their biggest sales. So many agricultural machines have never been sold in life, in recent decades, as in 2022. So there's something else here, just what I said earlier, professional work, digitization, precision farming, all of this has to be mastered, and irrigation is not like just opening the tap and watering it, because it's watering it in the garden, watering it in the field. These are also conceptual questions for me, serious professional conceptual issues. That's what I believe. I'm saying this because they're all part of this concept, and I just want to reassure you, which, unfortunately, has not yet been discussed by the government. But I'm happy to be at your disposal and to talk about it. Quality assurance of feed is essential, that is not a question to me, and I think I have already said this to you in Parliament. Internship with us 1 0 years ago: after milk fell on the dairy farm, a few weeks ago a letter came in that there was a problem with quality. We didn't even know what it was about, we had no idea about the aflatoxin milk. Turns out she showed up at the end of the tube in the silo corn. No one was watching him, there was never a problem for decades before, which means we didn't know, we didn't know, but we didn't know. An investigation has shown that we have invested relentlessly with the extra application of the toxin binding, and that we have been able to reduce it to be adequate for food safety, but it has become much more expensive. However, there is a very simple solution to all of this: twice the maize must be fungicideed and solved. I'm just saying, professionally, there's a way. Of course, quality assurance is essential. My fellow Member, Dávid Dócs, has also explained his line of thought on the sector, which, I say, reminds me of the agricultural disputes of previous decades. We can think the same way about many things, it's clear. With regard to the authorisation of wells, I would just like to say that agricultural-used wells have always been subject to a permit. Let's just accept that now. There were those who kept it, some who didn't. But those who thought seriously about watering always went to the water management, announced their request, examined it, published it. There are very few cases where no water rights permit has been granted. So I think these water-giving layers are all about our future and future generations, so their protection must be maintained. In the case of small underground Norton wells, which we have, it is expected that there is only one notification obligation without any burden; but only up to 50 metres, I would like to clarify this. There was a rise in energy prices, food inflation, a lot of things on your part. It is also about battery production, which is not my career, so I do not want to go into it, but I am sure, as an individual Member of Parliament, that agriculture alone will not solve the preservation capacity of the countryside; it will not keep it in itself. [[19.00]] That development, that industrial development policy, if you can say it like that to a battery, you can say it to the automotive industry, you can say it to anything, I am sure that the two will complement each other, because the intensity of agriculture must clearly increase. On the basis of higher added value, we need to increase the quality of returns per unit that can be harmed here again. There will be opportunities for that. The two must be seen in parallel, because if we look at who is working today, the number of workers in agriculture is not increasing, unfortunately it is not increasing. And if we look around the countryside, in small towns, in small towns, we also see that the developments that are in agriculture are largely based not on labour, extra labour, but on efficiency, automation, robotics. Last Thursday I'm sorry to talk home, Szentes, the new gardening and logistics center was built by the biggest dough in the country. Why are you thinking about it? Because right now, at this new logistics center, we need ten forklifts less, robots in the packaging will wrap the peppers and some of the tomatoes that we can. This is the future, I must acknowledge that, but we can also create the safe food for the same 20 or 25 million people that you referred to. This requires appropriate professionalism, here vocational training and vocational education are inevitable. So this is a very complex process, and the preservation capacity of the countryside is the most important, not politically, to add, but because it is a matter of responsibility for people living in the countryside to live at least as well as anywhere else in the middle or upper cities. The need to have adequate infrastructure in a small settlement is essential. It's part of the century. I just want to say that I can't do this anymore. We had a lot of pocket contracts before, and luckily, we were able to get rid of it. There may be a few more examples, I don't know about this, but if you do know that, please let me know, and we'll solve this question. Ladies and gentlemen, Yeah, I'll tell you one more time, we're a little off the subject... Here, also, Congressman Bencze spoke about the forest law, the water retention capacity of the soil, the growth of wildlife damage. There is much truth in it, but I believe that these laws, which we are amending here, are largely technical, and simplifications that can create simpler conditions and legal conditions for farmers and farmers. I see this in practice in a significant part. I'm sure there's a law that needs to be put in there, or we'll have to amend it properly later. At the time when I held the exposé of the law on family farms, I told you, and I'm telling you now, we knew in advance that life didn't know what it was, but it would create a situation that would make it necessary to amend that law. We knew, we just didn't know the specific case. We now know, and that is why this amendment has now been included. I'm just saying that as an example. I ask my fellow Members to support the law. Thank you very much.
u2023-05-03-178	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister Sándor Farkas, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. A general discussion of the bill on legislative amendments resulting from the ex post impact assessment of the transformation in vocational training will follow. The government referral is T/3756. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Balázs Hankó, Minister of State of the Ministry of Culture and Innovation, rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute timeframe. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2023-05-03-179	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The government considers it a priority to create a knowledge-based economy and to improve Hungary's competitiveness. A key prerequisite for sustainable economic growth is a skilled labour force capable of adapting to social change and labour market needs. Thus, the economy and education have been interlinked, mutually defining the basic conditions of each other. A well-functioning economy cannot be imagined without a workforce with competitive knowledge. The high level of education can only be guaranteed if the link between the economy and education is alive and this is reflected in the relevance and market capacity of the knowledge transferred. Aware of these requirements and expectations, the entire vocational training system was renewed and comprehensively adapted in 2020. The experience of the period since the introduction clearly shows that the changes have resulted in positive benefits for all the companies, pupils, trainers and parents involved. The vocational training system has become simplified, transparent and interoperable. Let's look at some features of the new system. The State will ensure free of charge in the new vocational training system that the first two professions and adults receive their first vocational training during their studies in vocational training institutions. More flexible and more easily adapted, high-quality professional work can be achieved by closer cooperation with the economy, i.e. dual training has become part of everyday life. It is important that the study scholarship system has been introduced in general to students, and in the case of start-up allowances and even dual training, the minimum wage for vocational training. In the summer of 2020, an average of 30 percent was achieved, followed by an additional 10 plus 5 percent increase in the first half of 2023, i.e. a total of 15 percent increase in teaching wages. The structure of the VET track tracking system has also been developed, as is the case with the degree track tracking system. As a result, the number of applicants for vocational training has been growing dynamically for years, the learning outcomes are improving, and the dropout is decreasing. In secondary education, technology is the most popular type of school. Since the introduction, there has been a significant increase in the number of graduates from vocational training to higher education, with no less than 74 percent in this year's admissions. While last year 13 000 people from vocational training applied to higher education this year. This will be further strengthened by the system of certified technician training. To make the VET system more versatile and more flexible, even alternative training paths such as the orientation year, the Dobbantó programme, the workshop school, which will help those with disadvantages to participate in VET and help reduce drop-out. The development of the economy and changes in society pose new challenges to the system of vocational training. In order to maintain competitiveness, we need to provide appropriate innovative responses. We are constantly trying to ensure that as many young adults as possible can acquire a profession and qualifications, as many people can participate in further training, so we need to take action again and again to strengthen vocational training. The purpose of this VET bill is to further strengthen the system of new types of vocational training and to help to make better use of its potential. Dear House, The bill before you contains provisions to help and ensure a higher standard of performance of the complex task of the renewed vocational training system, as outlined in the introduction, which, in a fine-tuning manner based on the operational experience so far, will also serve more efficient operation and wider responsibilities. [[19.10]] The bill thus helps to maintain a strong link between vocational training and the economy, improves the functioning of the vocational training system in response to economic expectations, maintain a training structure adapted to labour market needs, support efforts to broaden vocational education in the dual vocational training system, and strengthen the working and knowledge-based society. The Vocational Training Innovation Council, in which all stakeholders are involved, has been responsible for monitoring and monitoring the functioning of the VET system. They collected school experience, also discussed signals from economic operators. The provisions of the bill concern vocational training institutions, economic and other organisations involved in vocational training, economic chambers supervising the practical training system, pupils and trainers. Several amendments are aimed at strengthening dual training and increasing their opportunities. Thus, it will be possible to conclude temporary vocational training contracts twice a year for a total of 12 weeks. This will allow more students and more farmers to engage in successful dual training. This opens up the possibility for shorter educational stages in this form of education. In addition, the dual trainer will be given more opportunities to involve external partners in the educational process than is currently the case. The bill expands the scope of organisations that can be registered as dual training sites, including with primary producers, and the employment contract for vocational training can be concluded in addition to the medical service and the public employment relationship, allowing health and social institutions to teach their own workers to work as dual trainers. The bill ensures that the school year, the school year, can be regulated independently in vocational training. This is not aimed at moving vocational training away from public education, but at creating even more flexibility from dual training. The proposal reinforces the role of the mandatory basic document of professions, training output requirements, by giving vocational training institutions greater freedom to compile their professional programmes. This step also broadens the framework for the organisation of dual training and cooperation with farmers, as it provides an opportunity to implement educational and professional organisational frameworks better adapted to local circumstances. The clear applicability of the relevant labour law and tax legislation in vocational training is supported by the element of the proposal that will transform the legislation on vocational training for self-employed workers. In this context, the previous possibilities for a worker to complete professional education in his own company or even in another dual training unit will be laid down at a legal level. The clear distinction between these educational paths and opportunities makes the possibility of applying the tax incentives available for dual training even clearer. The proposal will extend the scope of statutory examination organisation during the transitional period for professional examination until the end of 2025, empowering multi-purpose public education institutions for the organisation of professional examinations with a basic professional training task financed by the State. It is also in connection with the examination that the National Central Accredited Exam Centre is defined in the case of the county where the performance of these examination tasks would be hindered. As a related proposal, the legislative package includes lifelong learning and the introduction and spread of micro-certificates for employability in adult education by amending the Adult Education Act in this way. Dear Parliament, The legislative proposal before you is the outcome of the development process, which reviews the professional achievements and experiences of the past period, with proposals for evaluation and fine-tuning, which aims to help bring the new type of vocational training system into a sustainable growth path, strengthening vocational training as an important pillar of investment in the future. The proposals contribute to the development of a vocational training system that contributes to the stable functioning of a vocational training system adapted to important labour market needs. A well-educated professional work in the knowledge of high-quality vocational training ensures stable and predictable livelihoods, decent wages, contributes to further strengthening of Hungary's economy and increasing competitiveness. With Hungarian expertise, we can build a country where it is good to work and start a family. The good direction and social acceptance of our efforts are also confirmed by recent secondary recruitment data, in which the competition for popularity is overwhelmingly won by vocational training. Based on recent application data, 43 percent of the applicants chose the techniques giving the profession and graduation at the same time, 34 375 students, thus preventing any other type of school. In order to maintain these results and to achieve the objectives outlined, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-03-180	Thank you very much, Mr Zoltán Hankó Balázs State Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Vinnai Győző, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Mr. Messenger, you have the floor.
u2023-05-03-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, vocational training is a success story of recent years. A very important part of education, and when vocational training was renewed in 2019-2020, if I remember correctly, in the early spring of 19 I saw VET 4.0 for the first time as a Member of Parliament, a member of the Committee on Culture, it could be seen that this could make a major contribution to economic growth, and that it could be foreseen that if vocational training was well-educated, more and more people would work, a skilled workforce would appear on the labour market and strengthen labour market relations. I would like to tell you in parentheses, I would also ask my fellow opposition Members to pay attention to the fact that 4 million 707,000 people are working, which has been published recently by State Secretary Sándor Czomba as Secretary of State for Employment Policy. I'm sure that the renewal of vocational training, the fact that the skilled workforce is being sought by the labour market... I can't help but learn more from primary school, because then we can get a job, then there are as few registered jobseekers as possible. But I tell Balázs Ander that there were 600,000 unemployed or registered job seekers in 2010, now falling below 238 thousand. Where I come from Nyíregyháza, Nyíregyháza and its region, there have never been such good indicators: unemployment has fallen below 3 percent, and I am sure that the Nyíregyháza Vocational Training Center, which brings together ten institutions, cooperates excellently with the larger companies in the region and with local medium and small entrepreneurs. So, once again, as an introduction, I think that further education is to go to vocational training, go to technology, five-year technical school, or three-year vocational school, or mister's forgiveness, to go to university, college, because a degree also protects against unemployment, with high added value. Turning to today's bill, T/3756. Proposal No.3; and perhaps even from the background, allow so much that the transformation of vocational education and training has created a legal background for the functioning of the system, so that this system of vocational training is autonomous and can respond to the challenges of the fourth industrial revolution. [[19.20]] With its own legal background, the VET system was on its own, and, as Mr State Secretary said, it has been given a great opportunity to work more closely with the economy, so it is easier to adapt to socio-economic changes. It has become possible to transfer valuable professional knowledge, and the transformation of the vocational training system has included what the Secretary of State has also said, I would say, a number of elements of lifelong learning. It has also brought about a change of era and perspective through the transformation of the vocational training institution system. We've talked about this, about having three forms, the technique, the vocational school and the vocational school. But let me tell you something new that is exemplary in vocational training: they are learning not immediately the profession, but sectoral directions. In fact, early schooling has decreased in vocational training because it is called a drumming school or a workshop school that helps to catch up with those who apply to vocational training. The reform of the VET Act in 2019-20 also changed the employment framework of the instructors working there, and, as we have heard from the Secretary of State, a 30% wage increase was made in the summer of 2020 and a further 15% differentiated increase in 2023. I am sure that this has given new impetus to vocational training, as it has also been able to involve experts in the competition sphere, and it has also been better to pay the instructors. If I can say one sentence about Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County: more than 18,000 people are studying in vocational training. This is a significant number at county level. And I'm sure the academic scholarship is a real motivational factor for you to apply here. The scholarship varies from 8 thousand to 59 thousand forints depending on the study result, and there is also a start-up allowance, and in dual training you can also take home a job salary with a vocational training contract. These are good things, they're too bad to be taken away. And we can also say that in vocational training, as we have heard, it is flexible, transparent, but I would add that demand-driven education has developed. Students with better educational outcomes are increasingly choosing vocational training and, as we have heard from the Secretary of State, 21 percent more have applied to higher education this year. It was about the role of economic chambers. Allow me to highlight the dual training system, which is a practice-oriented training. The role of training sites is significant, and fine-tuning of this bill offers further opportunities to strengthen dual training. Continued renewal of the vocational training institution network, complex developments, school renovations, workshop constructions, college constructions; this can be seen over the last four to five years. There is also a track-following structure for vocational education and training, which helps to thrive on the labour market. Maybe it's not from the devil if I say that almost every profession was a lack of expertise. So if students apply to vocational school for a profession, then it is almost a safe living for them, because the economy gives them the opportunity to get a job immediately after schooling. Allow me to ask the question: why are the amendments necessary? In particular, socio-economic changes, the transformation of the world, the development of technologies, and the risk of climate change are all factors that constantly revitalize vocational training. This bill, which contains clarifications and fine-tunings in several areas, is very important because the proposals were formulated by the participants in the vocational training system. Below came these proposals on how to fine-tune, modify and improve vocational training. Only as a list: the amendment covers the functioning of vocational training institutions, the issues of organisation of dual training, the broadening of the possibilities of vocational training for adults, the modification of the framework for vocational training, changes the rules of vocational training contracts in a positive direction, and changes the professional examination and data management as well, so this bill takes clarification measures in the context of professional examination and data management. Allow me to point out some of the essential elements of the bill. One of them: to help institutions operate, it is appropriate to emphasise the differences between the education of young people in student status and the learning opportunities offered to adults. For example, adults have the opportunity to acquire basic sectoral knowledge through distance learning; not only directions but also basic knowledge. Abandoning programme plans. Mr State Secretary said that the education organisation and the professional programme are better adapted to local circumstances if we are flexible here, but the training and output requirements do not change or even strengthen with the current mandatory basic document for professions. It has not yet been said that the bill allows the school year, the school year's order, to be regulated in vocational training as a new element. In fact, this will help to enforce the specific features of vocational training. This possibility must be given. We've already talked about expanding dual vocational training. The provision on vocational training for self-employed workers is important and the authorisation of non-State vocational training institutions is amended. Here the foundations and church institutions must be taken separately. It's not about them, it's about other institutions, not state institutions. Let me conclude by saying that, in the context of the professional examination, the concept of the National Central Accredited Examination Centre is introduced, which, as I have excluded from the amendment, ensures the continuity of the examination and ensures a transition until 2025. Let me confirm what the Secretary of State said about the introduction of micro-certificates. It's a little bit of a canopy for me because it helps me study lifelong. The inclusion of this in the legislative package also means that the recommendation of the Council of the European Union has been taken into account. Ladies and gentlemen, To sum up, we can say that these amendments are fine-tuning, but therefore the vocational training system is complete. These amendments took into account the proposals made by the workers and operators in the sector, made the system more flexible, more traceable and increased the effectiveness of vocational training. On behalf of the Fidesz fraction, I can say that we are very much in favour of the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-03-182	Thank you very much, Congressman Vinnai, notary. I now give the floor to Mr Balázs Barkóczi, the lead speaker of the DK Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-05-03-183	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Mr. Secretary. I think I will not surprise anyone by painting a slightly different picture of vocational training in Hungary after Mr Secretary of State and my fellow Member of Vinnai. Let me refer you back to my fellow Member in one sentence, since we are already addressing you, opposition representatives. He referred to the low unemployment rate. Well, you know, Congressman, the trick with statistics, or the fact that a three-month job search fee falls out and then just disappears from the system, whoever can do it doesn't need a lot of science. We'll say, "Oh, there's no unemployment, we've moved unemployment to the community, and so on. This, you know, is like the way your fellow Members were sitting around you before, this is gonna look really good on the video when they look back, but then we see that the pro-government benches are completely empty, so no one's here. [[19.30]] Or to give an example of vocational training, imagine that László Parragh didn't remember the exact date at the time, maybe 2019 or 2020 had to tour the media, in different media, how much the number of first-grade vocational training applicants increased, and Zoltán Györgyi showed that he hadn't grown at all, only so many previous years had failed, which was statistically detectable. And then we came to the point of what is wrong with the vocational training system and why this amendment does not provide a remedy for these problems. Well, we all know that since the victory of Fidesz in 2010, this vocational training system has been undergoing a continuous change of model: in 2011 the concept of the. Concept on the transformation of the vocational training system, the coordination of the economic needs, followed by the training of professionals in the service of the economy, a new concept of vocational training; then, in 2019, Vocational education 4.0 was discussed. Thus, every change of government, the party remained, but the government was transformed, and VET began to follow changing directions per change of government. He had one thing in common, and the Secretary of State pointed out this, and said that the economy and education were linked to one another, and indeed, it was a common point that these concepts were written on the basis of economic and non-educational aspects, based on the Parraghi concept, that our competitiveness was based on cheap labour. At the same time, the large-scale objectives set out in them have not been achieved, because since we have already had a steady decline in the number of students, the number of students with the apprenticeships has also stagnated rather than increased, and during the period, there has been an increase in secondary school drop-out during the last three vocational training concepts, and I would like to say this again because vocational training has been put in the service of short-term economic goals much more strongly than previously and has not been taken into account in society's needs for higher education. Instead, by renaming vocational training programmes, the government tried to meet these very creative renamings and thus to make vocational training more attractive, while professional training was increasingly characterised by contrast. However, the measures actually taken, i.e. the survival of the early career constraints, the promotion of professional choice and the narrowing of career modification options, have deterred students from these vocational training programmes. The consistent professional opinions have criticised, among other things, the non-consensual fragmentation of the vocational training system and the lack of development of general competences, and I would like to emphasise once again the problems of early career choice. But let us also listen to some of the participants in vocational training, and they agree with what I have said. Let me quote teachers in vocational training. My salary is HUF 298-318 thousand net after nearly 20 years of teaching. Since we are subject to the Labour Code, wages are not legally binding, and in principle there can be a wage deal with the leaders, in practice many of us lack a culture to do so, since as a public servant there could not have been a wage deal, and in most cases the request could not be met. Another quote: there are no professional textbooks, there are no digitals, everything is prepared by us, obviously without any special remuneration. For example, my colleagues in adult company education were expected to write free curriculum for each class, and then, of course, publish, give up copyright. Of course, good practices are put on different surfaces by colleagues, but this is quite possible. The following quote: the problem is the curriculum, because it's a curriculum level, almost clockwork level, even though they say free time frame, it's bullshit, because it goes to mandatory and paperwork, and it's impossible to complete. And one last quote: classes became huge, some of them 37 people, and because of the change of structure, I became a professional teacher. The school also started to train cultural organizers, the training started all over the country, and after a year the state came up with the idea that the profession could only be organised here by the Ministry, didn't I mention that vocational training has been in continuous concept change for 12 years, so this profession has been eliminated, instead the school found IT, and so I became a Hungarian teacher as a professional teacher says a colleague. Moreover, the opinion of the trade union, the Pedagogical Trade Union, sent to the draft law, points out that permanent amendments, possibly and often not in the same direction, have a number of claims. Similarly, it is a problem that few companies involved in dual training confirm this, there is a lack of infrastructure, public knowledge and professional subjects are not built on each other, and there is still no major shift towards plural vocational training, so unfortunately, the popularity of vocational training is underpinned not by the facts, but by your political desires. The bill before us should also be discussed. First of all, I would like to state either the views of trade unions and professional organisations and civil society organisations that, in fact, changes to the related regulations have not been made public, so these professional and civil society organisations were in a lack of information when they had to express their views on the bill. They say that I would like to propose a future legislative consultation so that they can know them and that there is a direct consultation, because this is something that we have already missed, based on your legislative practice. And then let us look at the unacceptable points in this bill that I would like to address, and for which the Democratic Coalition Group believes that this amendment proposal cannot be supported. Article 12 § 1 is about the professional programme. You disappear here, you have the programme plan as such, and the programme plan we all know about the quality of education and the deterioration of its quality. [[Sic!]] You may need to It is true that this programme plan has not been mandatory so far, and therefore the measure is not necessary for flexibility, but the programme plans available as a recommendation could help to develop professional programmes. If these plans are not renewed, it is feared that they will teach on the basis of the old curricula in school. 20. §, here, right, paragraph 3 literally refers to the fact that the technique can only organise preparation for a graduation exam. Such training shall be organised only in an adult training relationship during the period defined by the Public Knowledge Framework. In this case, professional NGOs also draw attention to the need to ensure the availability of the profession and maturity in the daytime system for a certain period of time, and therefore we cannot agree with the fact that the possibility of graduation in the day system has ceased after the professional exam. The amendment of the law makes it more difficult to prepare for graduation after the vocational exam by setting the training period according to the framework course, if it means that the training period cannot be reduced from four to two years by the public knowledge of the vocational school. So, excuse me, what number? For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: According to Section 5 of the Act, this states that the operating licence of the non-State vocational training institution may be issued for five years and may be issued if the maintenance capacity and the others. We don't understand that either. The fact that the authorisation of non-State institutions is not for an indefinite period but for a period of only five years makes it impossible for both the institution and the student to plan responsible, since in the event of an irregularity the authorisation would be withdrawn even if it were granted for an indefinite period. One more comment on that. This amendment to the law to be amended concerns a vocational training institution established or maintained by a higher education institution maintained by the public trust fund in point 4, but the legal entities authorised to set up a vocational training institution are listed in point 1, including the higher education institution, which does not appear at all with a state or a foundation reservation, and this deficiency is no longer covered by the draft law under consideration. In this way, therefore, the public trust fund, which maintains the higher education institution, would be entitled to establish a vocational training institution, but the foundation is not the same as the higher education institution it maintains, and it still does not qualify for the establishment of any vocational training institution. [[19.40]] The provision further differentiates between non-state-based vocational training institutions, of which the authorisation of a higher education institution maintained by the public interest trust fund and of an operating or maintained vocational training institution established by a church legal person or by a vocational training institution may be granted for an indefinite period of time, but only for a period of five years by other non-state vocational training institutions. That's what I just said. However, the amending bill does not restrict the validity of the operating licence in time, and the justification for the draft law under discussion, which concerns the improvement of the quality of vocational training, is not entirely convincing as to why this is necessary. But let's be good faith. If we accept that the provision is capable of increasing the quality of vocational training, it is not understandable why the draft law makes an exception for those two categories, so what ensures that the vocational training institution established by the higher education institution maintained by the public trust fund or by the ecclesiastical legal person is already operating at a higher level than the other non-state vocational training institutions, so why the guarantee of the quality of vocational training in these two cases does not require a five-year review of the operating licence. So that is also a question for us. I don't have much time, but I promise you, I will continue. Jump to 85. § 3, paragraph 4. So far, the VET contract has resulted in a social security relationship, but the relevant paragraph is now excluded from the legislation. It is not clear, therefore, that this will mean the termination of the right, or that this regulation will be published elsewhere, which I would ask the Secretary of State, because if it means that the right is terminated, it is unacceptable. A. 87. Paragraph 1 ( 1) (b) states that on the last teaching day of the school year, as defined in the Ministerial Decree on the order of the academic year in vocational training, in which the student starts his first vocational examination immediately following the vocational course, the contract of vocational training is terminated. This is unacceptable for us to have the graduate's employment contract terminated at the end of the academic year, since it may be up to two months before the end of the exam, and even before the termination, a proportionate part of the leave should be given to the employer, and during that time the student will remain unattended and unattended. He's afraid he's gonna get lost because the school doesn't care about him, and he's not getting a scholarship anymore. Thus, the danger is that the student will take a job and not go to the exam. That's all for now, I don't want to maximize all 15 minutes, but I'd do it slowly, but I'll continue in the debate. Thank you for listening.
u2023-05-03-184	Thank you very much, Congressman Balázs Barkóczi. I now give the floor to Mr Dezső, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. You have the floor, Mr. Notary.
u2023-05-03-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! I think, without any risk, it can be concluded that this subject is not included in the 2023 legislative programme. What's the reason? After all, vocational training is such a breathtaking subject that if you deal with it in a planned way, it is clearly included in this legislative programme, but this is not included. There's obviously a reason for that. In my view, the reason may be that something has happened, and this could be something that is not a change in the right direction, and that is why it was thought that this should be put on the agenda, and that new measures should be taken within this framework, or that it might improve those that have failed to succeed in the previous measures. As a result, we have a very interesting proposal before us: the legislative amendments resulting from the ex post impact assessment of the transformation in vocational training. To be honest, I've never heard of an address like that, I've never seen anything like it, but I've tried to analyze the reason for that. First of all, I was wondering why it was a follow-up. I have learned at all schools that if we want to make a decision, we need to carry out an impact assessment before it is necessary to formulate the tasks as a result of the impact assessment. Let us admit that this was not implemented in the creation of the previous legislation, there was no then and there is no impact assessment now. The other thing I miss very much is the consensus on this subject. This, in my opinion, is a classic topic where you should seek consensus. I didn't sense that he had an idea or a plan for the government or a party of government. We are here now, an ex-post impact assessment, and they have decided to deal with this. We also need to think about what this ex-post impact assessment means. This is a complicated term, but if we translate it into the language of the practice, then it basically means that we gather the experiences that have emerged from the previous decision over the past period, and based on these experiences, we formulate future tasks. That makes sense. But let's see what experience there is, what experiences can be derived from. In my view, the proposal in this regard is not honest. Typically, no analyses have been carried out in recent years, and I have not seen any surveys or studies. So, in fact, they are on their own in this matter, there are no background materials to justify the correctness of your ideas. There was also a professional journal, which had previously ceased to exist, no. This is not good either, because it could have had opinions that could have had an impact on the formulation of new ideas. So what I'm saying is that there hasn't been any substantial background material in the past. It couldn't help their kind of work. Therefore, it may not be exaggeration to say in general that this substance is unprepared. And if I am speaking in general, and I am not going to go into the detailed questions, because my fellow Member, I think, is very detailed and precise about what our specific comments on this substance are, so in general, I perceive that he does not address real social needs. In any case, it could be put simply that it does not plan for the long term. I see only three and five deadlines in the material everywhere. Such permits can also be obtained for three years, five years, depending on what organisation they are. Perhaps a little confessed, and this is the result of what has been said before, that vocational training in Hungary today serves only labour market fire fighting, although that is not the only thing vocational training should be about. But if we look back over the next few years at what decisions have been made in vocational training over the last ten years, let us say, and what their characteristics were, then the following can be defined: no strategy, no plan to work on. [[19.50]] And there is a question, not only about vocational training, but also about other trainings, but about vocational training, what the church is doing in vocational training is very harsh. The choice of profession is not part of the life of faith. [[For signal:]] If you read the material, the churches will enjoy very special preferences in this regard. This can only be dangerous because, in this way, people can be excluded from vocational training for religious reasons. I think that in a few years' time, if we look back on this material, we can say that this idea did not build the future. Thank you very much.
u2023-05-03-186	Thank you very much, Congressman Dezső, notary. I now give the floor to Mr Ander Balázs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2023-05-03-187	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, A lot has been said here before me, and I do not want to repeat it, and I am not here, say, from Shakespeare's Julius Caesar, so I am here to bury Caesar, not to praise Antony's farewell speech, so there are a lot of things that I will acknowledge as positive. However, at least in such debates, allow us to promote our criticism. And I would very much ask Mr Secretary of State... he was here on the bill by Mr. Sándor Farkas, he sat down, I saw what Mr. Secretary of State was doing here, I think it was a very constructive thing. I, too, listened to his answers inquiringly with my fellow opposition Member, my fellow group member, János Bencze. So if I'm going to make a criticism here, then don't take it as some sort of "l" or "art pour l" or "art" opposition bickering, but rather the fact that there's a huge amount of concern about how things are going. By the way, I taught in vocational training, from there I came to the National Assembly, and then last spring I went back to my former school for a six-month period, a real vocational school for rural workers, as the young people there call it: a gladiatorial school, so I also have experience from life. What are the positives on which I can say from the Jobbik faction that these are good things, these are things to support? So when, in such a bill, you refer, and indeed, let us say, if only one trait, but it improves the ability of adults to be more involved in adult education, and the ideal of lifelong learning can be fulfilled here in Hungary; we know well that in EU comparison we produce rather bad numbers, so where would we improve even in regional perspectives; or if we read that dual training places will involve, let us say, farmers in the agricultural sector, then this is a flexible and good thing that can indeed be seen as a kind of development. So these elements of the bill will be supported in the same way, when several people here have referred to the system of micro-certificates, which also supports the possibility of lifelong learning. The system of scholarships has come up as a positive one, which is indeed an age-old innovation, let us say, compared to the previous ones, because it is possible that a youth with a cumulative disadvantage who is able and able to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the Hungarian state will become practically the most sought-after person in his family and, as his name shows, a scholarship, so he will really encourage him to stay in the school system, gain a profession and become a useful member of this society in the long term. We could talk about orientation training or the Durbanto program, and I've got one of those Durbanto classes, it's a real challenge. However, if we take seriously that one of the most important issues of national strategy in Hungary in the coming decades will be social integration and the catching up of Roma, then it should also be praised here that a progress has been made that will help to solve the problems that are undoubtedly present and very serious, perhaps not generated, but in minor elements. The fact that individual training paths have become more flexible is another thing to support, we can all accept this. But what is it that we can't agree with? In fact, I took notes and collected my thoughts on what is the main problem that we see in Jobbik in relation to vocational training. There were three or four original sins committed here, and I would add, the problems did not start now, not in 2010. So I would refer here to a study by Ferenc Gazsó, perhaps published in 2001, and on Educatio you might still be able to read what the school could do, what it was called exactly, I don't remember, something like that. There he examined the vocational training of the state socialist system, where he also said that 25 percent of young people were practically functional illiterate in the school system, but the economic structure at that time was able to suck these young people up. However, the world has changed very, very much since then, and the fact is that Hungary cannot afford the luxury if competitiveness as a concept is important for us to roll these ratios further, because even though it has been done before, we have a dog duty and you, in particular, are in power to do something to improve these numbers. Well, then, what were these prehistoric sins? István Polónyi's research, but I could also cast other authors, clearly showed that from 2010 onwards, a 46 percent withdrawal from the vocational training system took place in Hungary in the early 10s. So, if there is progress now, then, with all due respect, ladies and gentlemen of the government, it is possible to point back to your activities in the area of 2010-11-12, which has taken a lot out of this system. Then, my fellow Member here, quite rightly, said that this is the sector that the people in it may feel was a kind of stepmother. It was thrown between wallets, and now, who knows, it is practically here to monitor how many of the laymen have owned the vocational training system in recent years. It was like a hot potato, and somehow no one wanted it. Then there is the yes, let's say demented training, because they moved towards easier resistance when the problems were to be dealt with in such a way that we reduce, let's say, the number of public knowledge classes, these children don't need, we can't do anything about them, so let's reduce the dropout. In fact, if you look at the fact that it is useful to reduce the number of public knowledge classes from the perspective of later careers, then I say that it is not, and there is a shortage of teachers. If there is a shortage of teachers, it can also be treated by reducing the number of public knowledge classes, but how it becomes competitive, when there is no physics teacher, there is no chemistry teacher, and it can be classified. Then there's the fourth such prehistoric sin that there is an integration task of vocational training. As a positive point, I now note from some of their actions that they have recognised that there is an integration task in vocational training. I would like to quote then: four years ago, exactly four years ago, Minister of State Gábor Szerencsen Pölöskei said that the aim of vocational training is not to catch up, it is not to solve the disadvantage, but to carve craftsmen. Yes, in a perfectly functioning world, this may be the case, but it is the fact that most of the vocational training is done by young people whose ancestors, let's just say, were the losers of the change of regime. So we should have dealt with huge social problems within the system, although it is unfair for me to put this into vocational training one at a time, because the problems do not arise there, but they do occur much earlier, but they do peak there, and there is something that needs to be done. [[20.00]] So, we would have a very different perspective in this regard. One of the main areas of economic policy is clear that education policy and education policy do indeed have a social cohesion task and the catching up of multiple disadvantaged groups. And then let's say that catching up on gypsyism is a very serious economic policy challenge. And if I want to concentrate on something within vocational training now, then what I know most about where I come from is the world of traditional vocational training. There are far fewer, let's say, problems of this kind in the technics, and I'll try to back that up here with a few numbers. By the way, we notice that in 2011 the government, say, let go of the words of Tibor Cserti Tápó, when he, in his book "The Gypsy Population in Economic and Social Space" he said in his study, that the larger population growth occurs precisely among the many disadvantaged groups, and that the disadvantaged situation in such cumulatively disadvantaged families is exponentially regenerating. He said that this could generate social conflicts, and he also said that a wise policy is committed by the current government when education-education institutions prepare for these problems that appear legally. As Hungary's social structure is also changing in this way, labour market challenges are also emerging in this respect. So, Secretary of State, yes, we see some positive steps to try to compensate for the disadvantaged socioeconomic situation of the school, say, vocational training. However, in terms of social mobility, we are still on track. Then I'll give you the numbers. We know from Attila Papp's research that, let's say, in 1990, the proportion of Gypsy children in schools was 6,6 percent. This doubled almost pinpointly by 2009. Since then, István Forgács has been talking about it, and it has grown even more. If these problems are placed in parentheses or if they are not placed in parentheses but are not sufficiently focused on them, then there will be a problem. In the early 2010s, the Széll Kálmán plan said something about whether after the age of 15, the student and the child's family can decide what they want, stay in the school system, or get out of there. It's very harmful. In 2011, 98 percent of 17 - year - old students were still where they should be: at the school bench. By 2016, this deteriorated to 85 percent. Obviously, the teachers too, at the time, I was also pleased that the troubled students would somehow be removed from school. Let's just say we don't have to side with it. Because we didn't have that helping colleague there, next to us, teachers, educators who could have handled these problems, or helped him as a school, social worker, social educator, psychologist. In practice, teachers in such educational institutions feel as if the system, the government, regarded them as a form of public benefit Übermensch, who will carry out all the tasks, besides teaching, integrating, and practically caring for these really difficult children as social workers. But it's not gonna work. It's a very inefficient thing. I would like to quote KSH data, Mr Secretary of State, and I asked you to try to copy the method of replying to Secretary Farkas, because if I am here quoting a 2017 KSH data, according to which the drop rate for young Gypsies was two-thirds, I would like you to give me a more recent figure in this respect and at least try to outline such a trend from 17 to 17 until now, then how these figures evolved. So we were talking specifically about Gypsy young people, but I could quote national data from 2020, where this indicator was over 12 percent. So, not only has there been an improvement, but it has also deteriorated in contrast to European trends. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Because of these special educational and educational problems, they did not pay enough attention. Not only do I want to condemn the state, as a conservative man, God forbid that then I have all the responsibilities of the individual, no matter what colorful, but I'd put it in the neck of the state power, too. However, we see that these results have not improved, based on the evidence from the PISA surveys. So what I referred to here at the beginning, i.e. to Ferenc Gazsó's study, according to which the education system in the socialist times has certainly spilled functional illiterates, I can now say, based on the latest PISA results, that this has not changed since then. But, please, this is suicide. In fact, if I refer to competence surveys, and specifically to the results of competence measurements focusing on skilled workers, vocational schools, then there we can see that 75 percent of young people perform in some levels of text understanding and mathematics. So how does this make a competitive country? ! [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] I'll continue from here, because I have a lot to say. Thank you.
u2023-05-03-188	Welcome, fellow Members. Two-minute speeches will follow, since we have reached the end of the speech. I give the floor to Victor Vinnai, Fidesz Group.
u2023-05-03-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to react very briefly, because what Ander Balázs said about competitiveness and integration is very important, it applies not only to vocational training but also to public education, sir, even university training. I see Evangelical Roma College, say, at the University of Nyíregyháza when I teach. Even there, we need it. So we agree on that. But what I must add is that the main aim of vocational training is to raise the best professionals, craftsmen, and, of course, to improve the disadvantage or socialisation situation. Balázs Ander himself said, and he was right to have a workshop school, a Dobbanto program, a guidance school. Do you know how many people are studying? There are at least 1800-2000 students in vocational training who are in this area. What I didn't really understand from Dessert was what the church was looking for as a maintainer. There are non-State maintenance institutions, there are state maintenance institutions. So I didn't quite understand that, my fellow Member. But the fact that there are no plans and no mid-term plans, we plan for three, five years... the world is changing around us so quickly that I can't tell you what kind of jobs are needed in ten years' time. They say that this mid-term classification is one of the best. Maybe a sentence for Balázs Barkóczi. But there, I see the boss has published that everything is unacceptable, that we are negotiating any good thing, any bill, not accepting it. I'd like to give you a number on unemployment. You know, in 2010, when I became a Member, I used to be in the local government world, 3 million 780,000 people worked in Hungary; now 4 million 700 thousand. So don't talk about statistics, but about a million more people are working, and the technique is, yes, the most popular type of school in today's Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-03-190	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Since no one has applied for a two-minute speech, Mr Ander Balázs has asked for the floor in a normal time frame. You have the floor. Here you go.
u2023-05-03-191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague from Vinna said that the world is changing very quickly. Indeed, it is, but that is why it would be logical to strengthen the basic competences. Then I would like to refer to Andras Benedek, head of the Hungarian Educational Society's Vocational College, who requested that we push this general educational period even further. So I said that I see the germs of improvement here, for example, when the concrete decision is pushed out a little bit. This is good for the young, but as the world changes, young people change, we think it should be pushed out even more. When the national organisation of Hungarian industrialists asked that the age limit be reduced to 18 years, there is also a reason for that. [[20.10]] Because with these young people who get out of school at a young age, at some point, society will have to face up to it, and it may be a very expensive thing now, but it will be even more costly later. So it would be much better to invest in their training now and somehow keep them in the system rather than lose these young people, but I'm telling you, I can see that there are some forward-looking signs, even if from opposition, let us be so greedy, we'll be short of action if necessary. Mr. Secretary. My fellow Member! What did Viktor Orbán say? In the autumn of 18, there was a EuroSkills tournament, they came from 28 countries, 37 professions or 600 competitors, and Prime Minister said that Europe will regain its strength if we raise and train the best skilled workers in the world. All of this means that your talent and knowledge, your diligence, are a golden asset for Europe's competitiveness. Okay, there's nothing wrong with that. The problem is that when the training is dumbed down, when I ask Mr Secretary of State, let us say, if the world is changing so much and the digitalization and transformation has been said here several times, then let us say, there is enough of a IT teacher in these schools. There are a sufficient number of hours available for these young people not only to be able to do a given job now, but also after 10, 20, and 30 years, if we are already living in this place. Because that would be our job, for you, the whole of the legislature, to think about it, and to try to establish certain foundations for them that will continue to succeed, because the world is really changing in a storm. And if we don't have these abilities that will make them retrainable in 10 or 20 years, then the fact is that a social and economic disaster like the one that occurred at the time of the change of regime could easily occur. And then you'll be even more right about Zoltán Pokorni, who, of course, didn't say long ago that tens of thousands of children are going to be in the pool every year. Our job is to get this number down as fast as possible. Well, by the way, this would also be good for keeping the country from being trapped in what is called medium development. Because you can now really boast that 4 million 700 thousand people are working, the only question is again how long it will take if such a rapid change, say, in technology; if they are so rapidly automated in certain sectors. And that would be my question, Mr. Secretary, again, if you can give me a fresher number, let's say, about the tech explosion. The Economist Intelligence Unit did a survey sometime in 2015. You've seen 56 countries. Germany was ranked 7th, Hungary 25th in terms of how well workers are prepared for the future. Or even though I don't like the World Economic Forum that much, I can tell you, so I'd like to refer to a survey by the World Economic Forum of 17-18. They looked at the length of the value chains, and based on this, 138 countries were actually placed in such a ranking. Hungary was 113. Thus, the added value was not too high, and in many cases these workers were practically used as biorobots by these companies. If there is any improvement, please tell us, Mr. Secretary. Then, how difficult it is for the schools like I was talking about here, EMMI data, 19-20, if you can get any fresher, please share it with us: in that academic year, 17 411 SNI students started their high school studies. Of this more than 17,000 SNI students, 45 percent of them were about 7975 young or children in traditional vocational training; that is to say, the type of school that covered 16 percent of the total secondary school population, but 45 percent of the SNI students were there. Here, in this type of school, like where I come from, every eighth student has an SNI. Every 60th student in traditional high school is like that. So, if I'm talking about special education and education problems, I'm not doing it like a slap in the gut, not because I can't cause discomfort to anyone here, or just because I'm saying it on the basis of all the very wrong things, but because it's a real and burning problem. And at this time, I would like to ask the Secretary of State to add a number that proves that you are focusing on this problem, and how much more developer teachers have become in this type of school, how much more school social workers have become, how much more mental health professionals have become. And if you can prove that to me, you can outline an improvement sheet, obviously in terms of the weight of the problem, then I say, okay, thank you very much, and I acknowledge in this respect that, let's say, progress has been made, so this is one of these. Then the other was the trend of dropout data. Then there is, say, Szilvia Németh's study, who surveyed the number of schools in her country around 2008-09. Then there's a number 66 coming out. It would be very good if Mr. State Secretary or Mr. Secretary of State could now quickly send in a data on how we have been doing in this regard since then, because in my opinion it is very important for schools to play a role in the fact that these students, who come from a cumulatively disadvantaged environment, are somehow trying to keep them in the education system. And I would also like to ask you how much the institutional network of the "Secure start" children's homes has improved in recent years, because when I said here that teachers working in vocational training are considered to be public use Übermensch or supermen, I also said that the problem should not arise there, should not be dealt with primarily there, but should be intervened preventively in early childhood, but that would require such institutions. And that if I hear a number from you, say that, according to the weight of the problem, there is not enough, sure start, children's house in Hungary, then I will be able to include it as a black point in your certificate. And then again, I would like to refer to the excellent study of László György, a colleague of the State Secretary, the doctoral thesis of the model of integration in Singapore, which combines with Hungarian parallels. So, it is possible to develop this parental mentality in order to become more conscious, and to have a kind of expectation of the child, because every educational sociological survey shows that in the case of the same disadvantaged child, where there is this parental turnout, we have the parental support, let's say, for the students, then the result will be much better. I could also ask, say, how much the school model in Heyőkeresztúr has spread in Hungary, how much they can adapt it, because the numbers, the results show that this is a very useful initiative. How it came about, let's say, the resilience of students in vocational training, because these are all quantifiable data, and if Mr. Secretary of State can tell me that the number of students in Resilient has increased, then this can be a positive thing. Then, Mr Secretary of State, the Institute for Economic and Enterprise Research carried out a terrifying, shocking survey on the fact that I am talking about apprentices in vocational training with 10th grade students' competence results are worse than those of students in the 6th grade of the national average. But let me say this, because these young people have made themselves worse, and then I would like to ask you, in particular, what measures have been taken to improve these figures here. And I know there are island-based, very good practices that can be referred to. You can refer to Kecskemét, you can refer to Győr, only I, as a generally defyed opposition, usually present to you the problems of the more shadowy areas of Hungary. [[20.20]] So, in many cases, these basics are missing, which then virtually destroys the idea of talking about retrainability and training at all, because the school's most important product would be the able-bodied person, but, as I said before, this ability to work is not for now and for the immediate tomorrow, but, in good times, for decades. Mr Secretary, I do not know that you have taken note of these specific questions that I have asked, but I would, in any case, be very pleased if you could give me an answer in the end. My fellow Member from Vinna raised one more thing here, and this is the wage situation of teachers in vocational training. You know, in 2019 they took the status of civil servants from the teachers here in exchange for compensation for a 30% increase. Here again, I would expect a specific number from the secretary of state that teachers in vocational training, because they are no longer called educators, but the wage situation of teachers in vocational training compared to the average Hungarian degree level, because in general we can say that the wages of Hungarian teachers are now less than 60 percent of the average graduating wages in Hungary. Then, if we have heard so many hossannas about the positive things that have happened in vocational training, this could also be a specific figure that could support your truth. There is definitely a need for a competitive turnaround. And I am not saying this, although I know that we are referring more and more to the Hungarian National Bank from the opposition side, but this is just one of those stories, and the competitiveness programme was published in 19 and there among the 330 points, there was a pretty serious place to strengthen the schools, improve the learning methodology, and even visualize, in order to say that the 10,000 children quantified by Zoltán Pokorni did not go into the lecho. Therefore, the qualifications of human capital should be improved. And the specific issues that I have addressed to the Secretary of State may be helpful, and this change would result in the skills of the 21st century. Indeed, they are a treasure in the century, and for long and long decades, they determine what the working capacity of that young person will be, how they will develop, the complex problem solving, the ability to think critically, the cooperation is all related to what I have just outlined here, and I would really appreciate it if Mr Secretary of State gave concrete answers to these points. Thank you very much.
u2023-05-03-192	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Balázs Barkóczi, DK Group, who also asked for the floor in a normal time frame. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-03-193	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, My fellow Member, let me react very briefly. I've been in the House all day, sitting in this Chamber in a number of debates, and I've seen your fellow factions read out long and long litans of pre-printed papers, and then you tell me what the boss gave me or what the boss didn't give me. That may be how you operate, Congressman, and the reason this country is keeping you here is because two thirds of your 13-year-olds can only imagine politics being scolded from above, but that's not how we operate. And that is so unworthy of you, unworthy of the House, unworthy of everything here! When you bring up unemployment figures, remember that Covid was not so long ago when, for example, the National Employment Service said in 2021 that employment had increased by 300,000 people, while the Hungarian National Bank reported that 70,000 jobs had ceased, but the Hungarian Central Statistical Office even contradicted these figures. So you can come here with all kinds of data pulled out by your hair, and the thing is, honourable Member, if you would talk to those involved in the profession, for example, the president of the Public Education and Vocational Training Trade Union, who lives in my constituency, the XV. in the district, he tells me and I say this to Mr Secretary of State that there is a decline in the competences of the students, which my fellow Member Ander has also said, that a simple flow chart is beyond their capabilities, and, in fact, very often children who are able to distinguish between red and green buttons may not be shredded by the machine they are forced to operate, because obviously teachers are overworked in vocational training. And if my fellow Member Ander has brought this up, I would not take the right to say to Comrade Bastya that it is modesty, fellow Members, modesty. But let us see that in Slovakia, while in Hungary there is 60 percent, there is 77 percent of the minimum wage for teachers, 81 percent in Austria, 90 percent in Slovenia, and even 89 percent in the EU average. And the reason why what I was just talking about is very important is what skills these kids are getting out of, because it's all connected to everything, when you guys beat up public education, you can't boost vocational training, because that's what it's all about. And also here, the union president tells me that children who have not mastered the competences of a 14-year-old child who is going into secondary education should learn because teachers are already overworked. Anyway, we're not talking about public education. That is why the Democratic Coalition Group says that this amendment is unacceptable, because, for example, it does not include increasing the number of public knowledge objects, because there is unacceptable lack of public knowledge content in vocational training now, and this law again does not mention it. And together with civil society organisations and professional organisations, we say that vocational school training should be made four years old, leaving this three-year training only in exceptional cases, so that we can really improve the skills of students and not just push them out as cheap labour, as László Parragh says, because it will not get us anywhere, how the Hungarian economy will shoot out, how employment will grow. Let's not talk about how many young people go to work abroad in the hope of a better life, they can't say a family who doesn't have family members in the largest Hungarian city in London, because unfortunately that's what they have to call them because of the many Hungarian workers. We also say that it must become a natural and realistic possibility that after the professional exam the degree and the technics can be obtained together, even in a daytime system. In principle, this is still possible, but in practice this is very rare, and that is why we should ensure that this issue is focused. This is also lacking in the current amendment. It is contrary to the requirements of flexibility and interoperability that, at the end of the 12th grade, it is not possible to leave high school graduation equivalent for those who wish to change careers. The 13th, in some cases, is forced to complete the 14th technical course, which is unfair to students. On the other hand, it is pointless from the point of view of leaving the labour market. This should also be changed, and this is not included in the current amendment. Inter-annual access to the orientation class should be allowed for those who consider this necessary in the 9th grade of vocational training institutions. Or, for example, to ensure that students switch between forms of training and sectors, between further education directions, and provide assistance. [[20.30]] Not to mention the fact that we're talking about deficits, if you're 128. We are looking at the fact that paragraph 3 of Section 3 states that the rules laid down by the amended law on vocational training and vocational training must apply from 1 September 2023, which is again incompatible with the principle of the introduction of a legislative amendment only in an emerging system, i.e. time should be given for the transformation. This bill doesn't match that. That is why we are saying that it is unacceptable, and believe me, not in obedience to some sort of upper order, but because you have not even been able to put a normal vocational training bill on the table. Thank you so much for listening.
u2023-05-03-194	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to speak on our agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State that he wishes to respond as rapporteur. [[On the signal of Dr. Balázs Hankó Zoltán:]] Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2023-05-03-195	Thank you very much. Firstly, I would like to thank Mr Vinnai, Commissioner, for recognising the progress of vocational training on the basis of a number of facts. Vocational training 4.0 is where we set these strategic directions, and I would like to discuss this later. Labour market relevance, dual training, scholarships. No less than 140,000 young people, 140,000 students receive scholarships through the framework of vocational training, and what is more, the disadvantaged will be discussed later, with a scholarship system that prioritises disadvantaged people. Think of the recently launched Apáczai Scholarship. And what is the whole point of vocational training? Instead of reducing the level of vocational training before 2010, we have reached the top 100 technics ranking; we have come to the point that we have technics with no fewer than 4.7-4.8 averages for children. In the meantime, we are also clearly strengthening vocational schools, vocational schools, where the training system, which corresponds to the inclusion of adults and adult education, provides an increasing opportunity. Why? Because we want everyone to have a profession; we want everyone to be able to use their skills for the benefit of the economy, their family. So, top 100 rankings, what's more, in the international WorldSkills system and in the EuroSkills tournaments, our children in agriculture, hairdressing or other areas are getting better and better. Digitalisation is a key issue for renewed vocational training. It is worth visiting a number of our vocational training centres, where the digitalisation of the training curriculum in 277 training areas in no less than 60 areas has been achieved by strengthening this dual, practical training. So: our vocational training has advanced in line with the Vocational Training 4.0 and Industry 4.0 strategies, by providing exemplary 18 sectoral skills councils bringing together the end of industrial, economic and social actors with a VET Innovation Council that is represented in the Vocational Training Innovation Council by all sustaining, all sectoral actors, and on this basis proposals are drawn up. To Mr Balázs Barkóczi, let us look at the facts. At the moment, six out of ten people choose vocational training, and more than 43 percent of graduates start in technology after the eighth. The competitiveness of our vocational training means, as I said, that there has been a 74 percent increase in the number of candidates for higher education from vocational training. And this is where we get to an important point: vocational training is not four years old, but the vocational training system is giving everyone the opportunity to move forward according to their skills and abilities. Three-year vocational school, 4+1 years, after which we also provide the profession in addition to graduation, and yes, at the moment there are 96 collaborations between vocational training techniques and higher education institutions where the possibility of moving forward in higher education is ensured according to the specific field. Let's get on with the scholarships. I mentioned that 140,000 young students will receive scholarships with a starting scholarship of 8-16 thousand forints, but later they will receive a scholarship of up to 60 thousand forints or a salary of 100 thousand forints in dual training. What if it is not that we want to make the future and the present Hungarian economy work-based and knowledge-based as much as possible? I would like to talk about data at the end, as I would like to give you a summary of how we have made progress in this too. Competence. It is the labour market and the demand-oriented vocational training system that we had to move forward with. At the moment, we are talking about the fact that a significant proportion of students in vocational education and training are already getting jobs and employment contracts for the future, with no less than 50 percent increase in the wages of trainers in vocational education and training since 2020. I mentioned, they asked me about digital progress: 277 digital materials were completed. What is more, if we visit just as I recently made it to the Debrecen Vocational Training Centre, we can see that they practice VR glasses and try to use digital solutions that are necessary to meet the changing, fast labour market expectations around us. About the negotiations. The PDSZ, which has already admitted itself, is not representative in the field of vocational training, agreed during the hearing that a number of progress has been made in the VET system and formulated all the aspects of the discussions that will be discussed later in the relevant regulations, since the consultation will lead forward, as I said at the VET Innovation Council, the VET system. With regard to certain sections of the law, it should also be clarified that the training system for vocational training or a more flexible framework is now too detailed. We have just moved towards a more flexible framework at a time when the obligation to the programme plan is no longer required in the framework of vocational training. The corresponding 20. In connection with the article, we have made progress in the accounting of adult education, which, I have to say, is our common goal, precisely in order to achieve the best possible results in terms of lifelong learning and adult education. Quality requirements are provided for both ecclesiastical and modeled higher education institutions as well as for state institutions - in a system operated by church modelled higher education institutions or operated by church maintainers with long-term framework agreements. It is quite clear that neither the participating students nor the teachers will be harmed or harmed by the relevant social security status. Mr Dezső Believing: in addition to interpreting the title of the relevant bill, I recommend reading the content of the Vocational Training 4.0 strategy, and after reading the content of the Vocational Training 4.0 strategy, it is worth talking about the strategic directions that vocational training took in 2020. In the same way, if we are already interested in impact assessments, I suggest that we visit the ikk.hu website, where a number of methodological and vocational training materials can be obtained quickly in a meaningful form. The three- and five-year framework. Three or five years of training are also linked to those mentioned above, so that everyone can move forward according to their own ability and skills. What is more, when we agree on three- and five-year capacities, it is specifically understood that labour market needs are constantly monitored and strategic planning is being carried out in line with these labour market needs. [[20.40]] And it is a religious persecution that the churches should not participate in the maintenance of vocational training. This is an exclusion that must necessarily be rejected. I would like to thank Mr Ander Balázs for agreeing on the progress made in vocational training over the past period, which we have drawn up together in the aforementioned strategic document. In terms of adult education, by the way, if we consider that the proportion of adult education in the last year is 60 percent of the adult population, here the EU average is 65 percent, so Hungary's adult education activity is good at this, but we need to strengthen it; that is why we are introducing the micro-certificate system that is contained in the current legislative package. He asked me about the underprivileged. I would like to refer here to the fact that, for example, the Dobbantó and Workshop School programme, which is maintained by the Salesian order, is one of the most successful in reducing drop-out. I'm asking you, how is this church reservation? [[Ander Balázs: We have no problem with that...]] The subjects of public knowledge... I asked myself that the Durbanto and Workshop School program, maintained by the Salesian order and maintained by other churches, does work. At the moment, we are saying that if we look at the funding of the adult education and vocational training system, it is by far more than HUF 200 billion, and in the last six years we have been able to spend HUF 150 billion on the development of vocational schools in order to meet labour market requirements. In terms of skills and skills, we have created a system that we are trying to ensure that everyone can move forward in a given life situation by providing a part of the profession. The location of vocational training and the operation of vocational training are ideal, in line with labour market relevance, if we look at higher education and vocational education and training as well as the innovation framework, as higher education, vocational training, adult education and innovation must be seen in accordance with the labour market and economic perspectives. The master's system and the introduction of instructors from practice also served to strengthen the practice. In addition to proper public knowledge, a craftsman should know his own profession in depth. As regards the disadvantage and the dropout, we are now standing at an average dropout of 8.7 percent in last year's academic year. There is a difference between counties, but the average dropout was 8.7 percent. And if we look at the participation rate for the orientation, the Dobbantó and Workshop programmes, then in the 2020-2021 academic year 1000, in the 2021-2022 academic year 1500, in the 2022-2023 academic year the number of participants in the orientation, Dobbantó and Workshop programmes exceeds 2000 years. And it adds that with the Apáczai Scholarship, which specifically provides the educational advance for disadvantaged people, we will spend HUF 2 billion on the participation of 3275 students in this. I have already mentioned the average dropout data, and since we want to clarify the number of students involved in vocational training, it is important to see that there was progress in this too, while in 2020 206 000 people participated in vocational training, regardless of the system of maintenance, state, church or other reservations, 243 679 participated in this in 2022. And perhaps I would like to quote another important figure, and this is about what vocational training is all about: in fact, helping families, helping young people to get an average 15 percent of their vocational training education higher than their parents had. From here on, this is the average number we hear and see in terms of everyday life for the eight general and secondary education and post-graduation vocational training. So we can say that the conversion of vocational training is successful, and precisely because in vocational training we operate a system that has continuous feedback on sectoral actors, fine-tuning takes place in these areas, and that is what provides students here with the appropriate competence, so that it is in the interests of both the Hungarian economy and their future families that they become craftsmen in their own territory. Thank you very much, and give me your support. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-03-196	I thank the Secretary of State for his detailed answers. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the legislative proposal on administrative recess until closure. The government referral is T/3760. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Miklós Panyi, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2023-05-03-197	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, For the period from 22 December 2022 until 6 January 2023, the Government granted a government administrative break for central and regional government administrations and their employees. At the same time, it was also possible to grant administrative leave for so-called bodies with special status, as well as for mayors' offices, joint municipal offices, the Mayor's Office, the municipal offices of the county and public area supervision. The experience of the administrative break was positive, both on the customer side and on the government's side. Experience has shown that a coordinated release of leave during the administrative break can contribute more effectively to the recreation of employees than a scheduled holiday taking into account the continued functioning of the employer's body; and that the administrative break has also resulted in significant budget savings. Dear House, The purpose of the bill before us is to ensure, at the same time, the provision of public and municipal services and the right of civil servants to rest. The bill also aims at simplifying the organisation of work during leave, in addition to the recreation of employees, without the employer having to replace government officials on leave during the administrative break. In view of the fact that during the administrative break the buildings of the bodies concerned will be closed, heating during the winter administrative break, the interruption of the operation of climate control during the summer administrative break will result in significant savings for the budget. It is important to stress that, as stated above, the bill contributes to the recreation of employees without prejudice to the interests of citizens and customers, as the proposal also provides for the possibility of carrying out administrative administrative matters during a period of administrative pause. In view of all this, the bill provides the government with the opportunity to set up a winter and summer administrative break. The imposition of an administrative break is therefore not mandatory, the Government may consider the need for its publication. However, where administrative breaks are imposed, they shall apply uniformly to all central and regional government administrations, as well as to the National Centre for Earth Affairs and their employees, regardless of the legal relationship between the employees and the body covered by the bill. Dear House, It is important to note that, for the sake of predictability and predictability, the bill provides that the government decree setting the date of the administrative break for the following year should be published as early as the year preceding the reference year, no later than 15 December. Thus, the date of the break may be taken into account in the planning of annual leave. During the administrative break, government administrations do not perform their duties and neither do they receive customers. For this reason, the duration of the administrative recess does not include the time limit for dealing with cases pending before the administrative bodies. [[20.50]] The bill sets out the types of cases for which the administrative deadline is extended with the days of administrative recess. Dear Parliament, However, there are administrative tasks which cannot be postponed at all. In the case of these administrative tasks, the bill specifies that the Minister for Management, Management or Supervisory Board of the Government may decide that certain bodies or departments should also operate during the administrative break, including customer reception. Finally, the bill allows bodies with so-called special status, as well as mayors' offices, joint municipal offices, the Mayor's Office, the municipal offices of the county and public area supervisors to join the administrative break of government administrations. If these bodies are ordered to have an administrative break, it can only happen at the time when the government ordered it for government administrations. In order to provide as much information as possible, the website of the special status body concerned and the formal notice notice shall publish a notice on the granting of the administrative break. In the case of mayors' offices, the Mayor's Office and the Municipal Offices of Vármegye, the decision to order an administrative break shall be published in the manner which is customary on the spot until the first day of March of the year. The draft law does not preclude the possibility for the authorised person or body to grant a administrative break in their own legal status in respect of bodies with special status or local government offices if it falls within a different period from the date of the administrative break to be imposed on the basis of this bill. In this case, however, the provisions of this bill do not apply to administrative leave. Dear House, I believe that the purpose of this bill is clear. The proposal ensures, at the same time, the provision of public and municipal services, as well as the realisation of the right to rest of officials involved in the performance of public tasks, while at the same time seeking to save costs. Based on what has been said, I would ask you to support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
u2023-05-03-198	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Demeter, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2023-05-03-199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As we have just heard, the Government has imposed a government administrative break in the period from 22 December 2022 to 6 January 2023 with the Government Decree on the imposition of a government administrative break and the emergency rules applicable to the government's administrative break, and has done so in the 2018 CXXXV on government administration. For central and regional government administrations governed by law. I also welcome the fact that the Prime Minister's Office has carried out a survey or research on the administrative break, and it was good to hear that the experience in this area was positive both on the customer and on the government's official side. In fact, it is also a pleasure that during this time the operation took place smoothly in the county, i.e. without an extraordinary event, during the administrative break. During the administrative break there were 60 government windows and the central document office was also open. I would just like to mention two numbers: 146,643 of 126 527 clients were dealt with. In other words, based on experience, there was no accumulation of backlogs that could not have been processed in a few days. Under the current legislation, the emergency rules applicable to administrative breaks applicable to bodies with special status and to the offices of representatives of local authorities are 460/2022. [[CHAPTER XI 10.]] The Government Decree allowed for the imposition of an administrative break for the 2019 CVII on bodies with special status and the status of persons employed by them. in respect of bodies with special status governed by law, as well as mayor's offices, joint municipal offices, the Mayor's Office, county municipal offices and public area supervision. CXXXV 2018 on Government Administration In accordance with the provisions in force in law No 13, the Government may lay down a regulation concerning government administration bodies during which, where possible, the part of the leave due for the year in which it is due to be granted which the employer exercises. Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. In accordance with the provisions in force by law, the head of a body with special status may determine the period during which, where possible, the part of the leave due for the year in which the employer is entitled shall be granted. The employer will, of course, grant the freedom during the administrative break by ensuring a smooth operation and, in the case of bodies with customer service to the general public, by ensuring the continuous provision of tasks. CXCIX of 2011 on public service officials. by law, the body of representatives and by virtue of Article 2 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. In the light of the Government's recommendation, the head of the bodies listed in Section 2 of this Article may order an administrative period for the granting of ordinary leave. However, the normal leave granted in this way shall not exceed three fifths of the basic leave of the civil servant for a given year. Dear Parliament, According to the bill before us, the government decree setting the date of the administrative break for the year shall be published no later than 15 December preceding the year, so that the date of the leave for the year can be taken into account when planning the leave for the year and, of course, the purpose of freedom is included, ensuring the rest and recreation of the government official. In view of the fact that, during the administrative break, the buildings of government administrations are closed, as we have heard from the Secretary of State, and there is a cost saving here, there is no need to operate the air conditioners in the summer, there is no need to heat in the winter, and during the planned administrative break, the employer should not be required to replace government officials on leave. [[21.00]] The bill concerns central and regional government administrations and the persons employed in them. On the basis of the bill, the government can order a summer and winter administrative break. The Government's decree on the imposition of administrative leave shall be published by the 15th day of December of the year preceding the year in question and shall be granted leave for all working days on administrative leave. Freedom should not be granted for days when employees are exempted from availability or work obligations. CXXX of 2018 on government administration for the granting of leave in the reference year in the event of the imposition of an administrative period. Instead of law, the provision of Act I of 2012 on the Labour Code is to be applied, according to which the employee has seven days of his annual leave in the reference year. During the administrative break, the government administration does not perform its tasks and the customer reception does not work. Finally, the bill deals with the inclusion of the duration of the administrative break in time limits, the rules on the real estate authority, the arrangements for ordering administrative interruptions and the imposition of administrative breaks in the case of non-governmental administrations. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to support this proposal on the basis of what has been said. Thank you.
u2023-05-03-200	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Gréczy, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-05-03-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, We all agree that all those who serve the country in all kinds of public offices need rest, recharge, and that this kind of right and freedom must also be guaranteed by law. That is why this law also requires special sensitivity from Members in special and strange circumstances. The government decree declaring an administrative break was announced with reference to the armed conflict in the neighbouring country, even though the most needed is the work of government bodies in the midst of a humanitarian disaster and an emerging social crisis. Nevertheless, the workers were sent to forced rest on the basis of the war, and let us not forget that the imposition of an administrative break was mainly justified by rising energy prices and overhead costs, which were released due to the irresponsible economic policy of the Orbán government. Péter Boros, Chairman of the Hungarian Public Officials, Public Employees and Civil Service Workers' Union at the time said that the announcement caused serious outrage in the offices, because the government did not agree in advance with the interest groups. Those who have not been free by the second half of the year will be forced to use it from this year, while the majority would have timed the rest only for the summer. Unfortunately, colleagues have not been honoured for years by the trade union leader in either economic or moral terms, and now they also regulate when they can take leave. This was another and perhaps last drop in the cup, I would not be surprised if more people then migrated to the competition sphere, adding the union leader. At the same time, he believed that the stress needed rest, that during a period of several weeks, the tasks would be so severe that after the administrative break, many would return to work with a gastric curve. Moreover, the administrative break is not a complete shutdown, some of the administration can be done during this period, and several offices across the country were open at certain times to carry out the most important cases. In the case of officials, the administrative break implies that leave should be granted for working days during that period. If a person no longer has enough freedom, for example during the winter administrative break, the employee will be obliged to use it at the expense of his next year's leave. It should also be noted in this story that when the fall break was abolished in schools and the winter break was extended, for example, for poor families there was a significant increase in wages, since when a child is at school and his parents work at work, a lot of people turn down the heat, saying that when we come home, we will rewind it. But if the child is not at school because there is a forced break, and the teacher is forced to go home because there is no teaching, then the state has actually saved up the fact that he turned off the heating in schools, but in families where adults were forced to take forced leave, or where the students stayed home during the extended winter break, this could mean a significant increase in the rent. Nóra L. Ritók, founder and professional leader of the Real Pearl Foundation against child poverty, believes that the extended winter break was an extra burden for poor families. He stressed that all school breaks are a challenge for families living in generation poverty, because in these days children have to be cared for at home, and for many, the provision of basic needs is a problem. And for poor families who had used free school meals to receive daily food, when forced home, because there was no school education and no food at home, the child could have had an empty stomach for days or went to bed hungry. I think that this is also a serious social problem, and for everyone who has a little soul, it is definitely a shocking moment. These tiny, but extremely important details need to be taken care of. There is certainly a need for rest, but it is also certain that for those who live on public wages, this period is also an extra burden. Moreover, there is no possibility of online work in the poorest regions of the country, so the supervision of children in some places may be questionable. Experience has shown that in small villages, despite almost springtime, there is no movement, the majority of families do not go out, they do not fill up, and there are many health, social and other risks associated with being trapped between the four walls. Therefore, the Democratic Coalition has asked trade unions to comment on the bill. These consultations have started between DK and trade unions, and we will decide our final position on the basis of their experience. Thank you for your attention.
u2023-05-03-202	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dezső, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-05-03-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Sometimes you think about how things get here. I've been thinking about what it was that came to you with compulsive force, that this extremely important issue should be regulated right here in order to taste, while suddenly we could list a few hundred questions that should be addressed. Sometimes you feel like there's someone in the office who's got the brains, and then they figure out this story. People don't care as much about this as you just said. Especially not in the sense that your colleague mentioned in his comment, almost as a success story, how great it was that this administrative break was ordered, for example, last time. In my opinion, this is absolutely not a central issue. So for now, I do not understand why we are discussing this as an agenda. I have one idea: someone was wondering if there were any other issues that were not centralised. And then he realized that there was such a great opportunity. Why is this question centralized? That's what I was thinking. Actually, there are two problems with your proposal. One is that you think in organs and not in humans. It's better the other way around. The other is that you consider yourselves extremely family-friendly. Believe me, this measure you're planning is everything but family-friendly. [[21.10]] Try to get into a family situation. You have already mentioned, my fellow Member, that you must organise the summer and winter, during school holidays, when, how you will stay at home with the child. You have just submitted a proposal that those who work for you, the state, do not own three fifths of their freedom. Try to find a sign for that. I could, but I think the president would take the floor from me. It's not family-friendly and it's not philanthropic. How do you expect a man's freedom to have at least half of what he has in the competitive sphere to have in the vast majority of you to decide who, when and how to take it out? I think that's a disgusting suggestion. He's got at least as much on his side as he does on a number of issues, so it's not a simple story like you guys just brought it up. At the same time, think of the fact that there is seasonal work and other things in different parts of the country that require there to be an administrative body that works. But you've figured out that everyone across the country, at the same time, the local authorities, if they decide to join this, can only join the time you have invented, regardless of whether another time there would be a hundred times better, and would be significantly better justified to have such a public holiday at another time. So it's not the primary thing that you think these government agencies can function in such a coordinated manner. People work there. We should check with them. They've got representation, we should check with them. Did you agree with them, Mr. Secretary? Anyone you've discussed this with? It's pretty clear, I think, your answer to that question. We should check it out. We have one good fortune in this misfortune that has been brought here, that, as described, we must announce by 15 December of the year before the measure, when that will be. This means that this year, in 2023, will no longer be the case, because I do not know that until 15 December 2022 a proposal has been submitted for such a break. If this is true and you keep what you have written here, then everyone can rest assured that in 2023 there will be no such centralised measure, because I am trying to quote it to be published by the 15th day of December of the previous year. So this is the only relief. This means that this year you can still think about how to take this measure in a more philanthropic way. I think this is an opportunity, and I suggest that you think in this direction. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-05-03-204	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Ander Balázs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-05-03-205	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The main point of the proposal is that there may be a winter and summer administrative break in the Hungarian administration. This is no stranger to the Hungarian legal system, since for more than twenty years in the Hungarian courts, a judicial break is held every summer, beginning on 15 July, which, by the way, is the day of the courts and ends on 20 August. It is welcome that these breaks are planned to take place during winter and summer school holidays. The community of Jobbik-Conservatives has been struggling for a long time to make it easier for children to be supervised on holiday, not to have to solve where the mother and father take leave, so there is no time left for the family together; and parents raising their children alone are particularly difficult to resolve. In any case, it is to be welcomed that it will make it easier for workers to plan their freedom and rest. However, let's not be too happy so fast, this year it's not until winter, so this summer we can still have logistics in our families. I believe it would have required quick legislation, but we've seen something like this in the walls of the house, let's just think about, let's say, the execution of the housing savings banks in practically one day. So, there were extra-fast-accepted laws, where appropriate, they could do it elsewhere. Let us also point out that this break will not be possible, as the proposal states that the Government's decree will allow for a summer or winter administrative break [...]. This means that if there is no such legislation by mid-December, there will be no central administrative break the following year. I believe, Mr Secretary of State, that there may be events that may affect the publication of an administrative break or not, but I think that we can agree that this must be an extraordinary event and that legal certainty would be better served if, as a general rule, publication was regulated in the law. After all, public administration and work there should also be about predictability. Where the publication takes place, this shall apply in general to all central and regional government administrations, as well as to the National Centre for Earth Affairs. The law specifically regulates the rules on bodies with special status and mayor's offices, municipal offices in Vármegye and public area supervisors. This is where the head of the body, the body of representatives or the county of Budapest, Parliamentary Assembly decides. I think it is important to mention that there are administrative tasks which cannot be delayed, so the Minister of Administration, Managing or Inspector of the Government may decide that some bodies should also operate during the administrative break, including customer reception. In Hungarian, this means that the head of the office may order the work of the employees of the body concerned during the administrative break. In the Jobbik faction, we recognise that there are such tasks, and it is important to give them space, but based on the experience of the last 12 years, I am afraid that there will be abuse. I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, it would not be good to set out guarantees in this regard. The Jobbik-Conservatives want an efficient, modern administration, and we hope that the government, the bodies of representatives, and the heads of the bodies will have the wisdom to use the possibility of administrative recess in the interest of both employees and customers. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2023-05-03-206	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Szabadi, the lead speaker of the group of our countries, who wishes to give his speech on the pulpit. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-05-03-207	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear House, The Hungarian Movement has also thoroughly examined this bill, and we have seen some very worrying things about it. The bill before us would give the government the opportunity to set a summer and winter administrative break, the period and duration of the administrative break would be determined by decree by the government by 15 December of the year preceding the year in question. As a transitional provision, only a winter administrative break can be ordered this year, and the decree on this should be published by the Government within 90 days of the entry into force of this law. We do not agree that the bill does not provide for the maximum duration of the administrative break that can be ordered in a given year, because it can be determined at the discretion of the government. We have seen several times that the government, when submitting its legislative proposals, usually determines the details by regulation, and we do not believe that this practice has taken a positive direction. The administrative break would cover all government administrations and employees, with the exception of foreign representations, including ministries, government headquarters, central offices and government offices in the capital and county, as well as the National Earth Centre and the Civil Service Tribunal. In addition, it would provide the possibility for bodies with special status, such as the Economic Competition Authority or the Super Authority and local authorities, to grant administrative leave for a period and period to be determined by the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, A well-founded opinion on the bill can be obtained by reviewing the rules on government officials in its system; it can be concluded that the government is fond of following the principle of giving with one hand and losing with the other hand in the field of human policy. But what are we thinking? [[21.20]] On 1 January 2019 the Government introduced a new government service for those employed in government bodies. In this context, although salaries were increased, the daily working hours were increased by half an hour, because lunchtime also has to be worked out. Furthermore, the basic leave was reduced from 25 days a year to 20 days and the additional leave was reduced, so the annual normal leave was reduced. The increase in wages in the government therefore entails a restriction on the freedom of employees. That's what's happening right now. Government officials' salary is a law on government administration, shortening Kit. , determine by grade the specific salary according to performance, assigned tasks and budgetary possibilities. The Kit. left the loophole for the government to raise the lower or upper limits of the pay bands by decree. Under the mandate, in April this year, the government increased the maximum amount of salaries by 14-66 per category. Here I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to something of special interest. Government agencies do not receive any additional resources to raise salaries, as they have undertaken to reduce the number of posts by 10 percent and the resulting wage burden is not to be paid into the central budget, but to be used to raise salaries. All this, based on the opinions received by our party, means or may mean that this is an opportunity to get rid of people who are not in line with the system, but only a small number of people will receive an apparent salary increase, and then the majority will receive either nothing or a symbolic amount. The interesting thing about the government measure is that the central budget for 2023 was adopted last year and it expects revenue of HUF 30 billion in this year's version, which must be achieved by paying the savings resulting from the reduction of the number of employees. As a matter of fact, the government plans additional redundancies in addition to the 10 per cent reduction of the salary increase, if so, to which organs and to what extent, if not, what will be the completion of the HUF 30 billion revenue plan. It is also interesting that the salary increase ordered by the government in April is up to the level of head of department. But the secretary of state doesn't have to be afraid, to be scared, because the government doesn't leave ministers, political directors, state ministers and government ministers on the side of the road. For example, the amendment on the basis of which their salary will be determined by the Prime Minister on 1 July of each year was introduced at the last minute to the bill on tasks related to the Hungarian Presidency of the EU. There is no guarantee that State Secretarys will be fired, and the government is not planning a 10 percent reduction, even though the government could set an example for government officials. Unfortunately, teachers are worse off than government officials. After prolonged teacher strikes and wage claims, the government intends to introduce the status law, which is known as the servant's law, without guaranteeing a multi-stage wage increase as set out in the draft, making it conditional on the arrival of EU funds on a permanent basis and making a commitment to payment only until 2030. In the interpretation of the Hungarian Movement, therefore, the price of increasing the salary of government officials will be the imposition of an administrative break. The Kit. According to the bill, government officials currently have half their freedom, but this is reduced to seven working days under the Labour Code, which, unfortunately, points to restrictions on freedom. It is also possible for the government, under the laws of existing legal status, to set up an administrative break. An example of this was the administrative break at the end of the year, which took place from 22 December 2022 until 6 January 2023, with a total of 10 days' leave. It has already been said from my fellow Members that if a person did not have so much freedom last year, he had to take the rest of the days out of his vacation in 2023, so he started this year with a minus of four or five days, which, to put it mildly, was not an elegant step on the part of the government. Moreover, it would have been more practical instead of the days of January, given the festive preparation, to set several days in December, the times were still cold. It is also objectionable that customers did not receive adequate information about the end of the year's administrative break, so they often faced it in front of customer services that they would not be able to deal with their cases until January. Freedom could only be granted during these times, during the administrative break, if the ongoing operation was ensured. This bill deviates from the fact that during the administrative break the employees spend their freedom, and the government agencies do not perform their duties, except for the tasks that cannot be postponed, the cases are suspended and there is no customer reception. The justification is that a harmonised release of freedoms can contribute more effectively to the recreation of employees. Well, we disagree. The work accumulated during the administrative break, which has not been carried out, must be replaced by an overtime after the break. In addition, based on the experience of the end of the year's administrative break, such information came to us, in the period after the break the number of personal clients increased, unlike what we heard from Zoltán Demeter. After a week, the employee may feel as if he hadn't been on leave. Every year, for families with children, organizing summer is a huge task. However, this bill is not a solution, but rather an insurmountable organizational task. Most people do not take their vacations in a coherent way, and they want to time their vacations for pre- or after-season. The summer administrative break falls on the high season, when vacations are much more expensive, not to mention that if all workers go on vacation at the same time, the demand for accommodation will only increase prices and, by the way, cause congestion. The summer and winter administrative breaks take at least 15 days off together, leaving little freedom to handle everyday matters, to use health care, for unexpected events, for further training, and the rest, which usually affects families and people. In addition, it makes it completely impossible to participate in evening or post-school higher education for employees with whom government bodies do not conclude study contracts. The Hungarian Movement could accept the winter administrative break due to the conservation measures, but we believe that it is necessary to increase the current basic freedom of government officials from 20 days to 25 days. We also object to the fact that if the Covid period had been good for something, it would have been useful to assess, unfortunately, the possibilities of teleworking in the public administration, which would provide opportunities for family-friendly, flexible work organisation and energy saving. However, this is why I say that, unfortunately, we do not see any trace of it in the public administration. Unfortunately, we must conclude that this bill on administrative leave is not for the benefit of those working in the public administration. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2023-05-03-208	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the floor under our item on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if you'd like to answer. [[Dr. Miklós Panyi: Yes.]] Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2023-05-03-209	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Thank you for your support, Mr President, and thank you for your comments. I'm trying to respond to everything. As I said in my previous speech, the administrative pause, this system, which was introduced at the end of December last year and at the beginning of January this year, was well-tested, and the feedback was absolutely positive, both on the customer side and on the government official side. [[21.30]] The client page didn't cause any disruption. So the person who had business to attend to, the person who had to do some sort of official document, in the open government windows, could do this, and 60 government windows were open, and there he could handle it. It was not a problem either that those who did not visit the government window during this period were later... So what has been said here is that these would have led to an accumulation of clients that could not have been worked down by the government offices, that is not true. We have also seen under Covid that government administration had to be suspended for a very long period of time, and even after that, government offices were able to work very quickly on the cases accumulated for these reasons, and I would like to say this in any case. So customer interests are not damaged, and efficiency is not impaired. Also, with regard to feedback from the civil servants' side, there was a lot of positive feedback from employees in their speeches that this period gave them the opportunity to relax at home with their families and relax. I would also add that, of course, this period for the winter and summer administrative holidays has also been asked, these proposals are always in line, so it is logical, in general, with the school holidays period and the dates. In general, he referred to family members, among others, to the Member of the family during this period, that is to say during Christmas, New Year's Eve, during the winter school period, this period is usually taken as a holiday. These families, I think, agree on that, in the vast majority of cases, it's true. [[Loyal Dezső: Let the families decide!]] I think we can agree on that, and that also applies to the summer period. What I would like to highlight here in relation to the main principles: so predictability and planning are very important, which is why what has been said, so, on the one hand, this is an opportunity. This period should be specified in the government decree for the following year at the level of the Government Decree. So government officials will be informed of this in time, which means they can plan on time. So this greatly helps their lives. It is also an opportunity for municipalities to join this administrative break. It is also important to mention that simplification can also be introduced in the organisation of work, and the possibility of cost savings and the principle of responsible management has also been raised. I think that this is also an important aspect that is worth considering. In many cases, this question is raised on the government, so that we can manage in a cost-effective way. I think we have a consensus on this, too. I would also like to stress that it has come to light that the functioning of the state will not be impaired during this period. It won't hurt. That is why this flexibility must be given to the system, so that the minister or manager supervising the area can order the operation of certain bodies during this period, and we can see that during this winter administrative period, the state and government offices have been operating, there has been no disruption. Energy prices for individual families have been raised. What I can say is that since the war broke out, energy prices have passed away not only in Hungary but all over Europe, the Hungarian government has helped Hungarian families with a very broad package of measures. The maintenance of the allowance for average consumption meant HUF 181 thousand per family per month, which was a support for all families. In the previous period, between 2002 and 2010, energy prices were constantly increasing and energy prices increased by 15 times. So I do not think that there is any reason to argue on the energy price issue. And speaking of children's meals, the Hungarian state spent HUF 30 billion in 2010 and HUF 100 billion in 2022 on children's meals. So we also pay attention to children and to the issue of food for children. What is perhaps also important to point out is that the regulation of the Code of Labour is being re-arranged in this case, which means that a level of abuse that you have repeatedly brought up here will not take place, so we are applying the same regulation in this case, and also adding that the imposition of these administrative breaks is adapted to school holidays and periods when families usually take their leave on a regular basis. There has been a question of social consultation. The Civil Service Stakeholder Forum was consulted, and the draft law is also out in consultation with society, and it has also been said here in the debate that more people have consulted the organisations on its content, and this is accompanied by experiences from government agencies, government officials, about a previous administrative break. So I think that in this case, this procedure was completely transparent. What I would add here is that, on a number of issues, the Member referred to the question of pay, this is not the subject of this proposal. The proposal was also open to social consultation on the pay table you mentioned, and the government has not yet taken a decision on this, if it makes a decision, it will, of course, communicate it. On the issue of teachers' wages, I had the opportunity to take part in the debate several times here, which was also attended by the Members present, and I can say that we ask for that support, that attitude in Brussels... your DK leader, Ferenc Gyurcsány, openly admitted that he was actively lobbying so that these funds would not arrive in Hungary, if you change this posture, then this increase could take place out of the way. I've tried to respond to everything, and I'm asking you to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
u2023-05-03-210	I thank the Secretary of State for his answers. Dear Parliament, The amendments will be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the bill amending individual laws in relation to the status of President of the Republic will follow until the closure. The government referral is T/3759. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Miklós Panyi, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2023-05-03-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Under the legislative law, all existing legislation should be reviewed from time to time and impact assessments and experience of their application should be carried out. This task, which is important for the proper functioning of the legal system, is also carried out continuously by the office of the Government and the office of President Katalin Novák. The outcome of this review is summarised by the 2011 CX on the status and remuneration of the President of the Republic. a bill that improves the regulation of law. The concept of the bill is based on the fact that Article 9 (3) (m) of the Fundamental Law gives the President of the Republic the power to set up his office in the light of his special role within the State Organisation and the specific features of the tasks he performs. Such explicit reference to the establishment of an own work organisation does not appear in the Fundamental Law for any other public body, and this gives particular emphasis to the President of the Republic's freedom of organisation. In order to ensure a more consistent enforcement of the freedom of movement provided for by this highest standard, the Act on the status and remuneration of the President of the Republic, as well as the 2019 CVII on bodies with special status and the status of persons employed by them, are necessary. amendment of the law. [[21.40]] The aim of the bill is to enable the President of the Republic to effectively exercise the freedom of organisation which he enjoys under the Fundamental Law when establishing the management structure of his office and the organisational and operational arrangements. The bill ensures that the President of the Republic determines the organisational structure and management of his office, and also provides that the President of the Republic exercises the rights of employer over one or more of the leaders he has defined in the articles of association. The legal status of the President of the Republic, the specific nature of his duties and powers and the specific nature of his working arrangements justify the employment of his office's civil servants by means of a public service contract, in which the parties may determine the essential elements of the civil servant's legal relationship in the light of the specific characteristics of the tasks to be performed by each employee, given that the 2019 CVII on the bodies with special status and the status of those employed by them. The Act, which also governs those working in the office of the President of the Republic, expressly provides for the possibility for bodies with special status and those employed by them to have different provisions laid down in the Act establishing a special legal entity. Dear Parliament, The freedom of organisation guaranteed by the Fundamental Law also allows the President of the Republic to choose the name of his office. In this respect, since its inauguration in May last year, Madam President of the Republic has consistently referred to her office as Sandor's Palace, to which she has all the rights under the Fundamental Law and, as I will point out in more detail below, this practice is supported by a number of international examples. In view of this factual situation, the bill states that the organisation of the President's Office operates under the name of Sándor Palace. The proposal aims at technical transfer. It is an important feature of this name to show the dignity and uniqueness of the institution more strongly, but much less bureaucraticly, thus making it much closer to the citizens. The name is also adapted to international practice. In many states, citizens refer to certain institutions with their seat, so in the UK Westminster Palace refers to Parliament, Downing Street 10, the Prime Minister's office, Buckingham Palace, the head of state. In the United States, the presidential administration is referred to as the White House, the convention as the Capitol, and the line could continue for a long time. In addition to the Act on the status of President of the Republic, a small technical amendment of 12 other laws is necessary for the consistent application of the name. Dear Parliament, In addition to the above, Hungarian law has long been a debtor by settling the status of the elected President of the Republic, who has taken an oath, but has not yet taken office. The proposal settles this debt by providing the President-elect with the legal, personal and material conditions necessary to prepare the President of the Republic for his term of office. Dear House, The bill contains answers to the demands raised by the practice and strengthens the dignity of the Presidential institution in the Republic. I ask you to support its acceptance. Thank you.
u2023-05-03-212	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Demeter, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2023-05-03-213	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to name the laws that are being amended, precisely on the basis of the bill before us. Such is the 1995 LXVI on public documents, public archives and the protection of private archives. Act CXXV of 1995 on National Security Services. Act XII of 1998 on travel abroad Act CXCV of 2011 on Public Finance. the 2011 CCII on the use of Hungary's coat of arms and flag and on State awards. Act CCV of 2012 on the status of military personnel. Act L. of 2013 on the electronic information security of public and municipal bodies, XLII of 2015 on the service relationship of professional staff of law enforcement bodies. The Commission considers that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Act XCIII of 2021 on the coordination of defence and security activities. Act and CXL of 2021 on Defence of Defence and the Hungarian Defence. Act aimed at transferring the name Alexander Palace instead of the Presidential Office of the Republic. In my opinion, the name Sandor Palace better expresses the dignity of the institution, and perhaps we can even mention that it is less bureaucratic. President Katalin Novák, we know that he places particular emphasis on presenting Hungary's values to both our countrymen and foreign professional partners. Within this framework, the building of the Sándor Palace has a value-making power both from a diplomatic point of view and from a tourist point of view. The change of name at the legal level does not entail any substantial additional costs, the cost of which is only to replace a nameplate placed on the palace. Dear Parliament, As Mr. State Secretary mentioned, according to Article 9 (3) of the Fundamental Law, the President of the Republic shall establish the organisation of his office and, in view of the freedom to set up the organisation, the bill shall determine, in the light of the individual status of the President of the Republic within the State Organisation and therefore the specific characteristics of his office, the basic provisions on Sándor Palace other than the general rules of the Act on bodies with special status and the status of persons employed by them, distinguishing between the President of the Republic and the head of the office of the Sándor Palace. This bill allows the public service relationship established to perform tasks directly related to the President of the Republic to be terminated even if the President of the Republic's mandate is terminated. In this case, in accordance with the general rules of the waiver, the person concerned shall be entitled to a severance allowance if the necessary period of time is present. On the basis of the bill, the Sándor Palace is transferred to a group of bodies with special status, for which the public service relationship is established not by appointment, but by public service contracts. In the public service contract, the parties agree on the salary of the civil servant, the allowances, the amount of supplementary leave, the day-to-day working time and the general working schedule. In all these matters, they may therefore conclude contracts with a content different from those of the law on special status and the general rules of the law on the status of persons employed by them. [[21.50]] In parallel with the above, the bill states that the amount of the special allocation of staff allowances under the Sándor Palace Central Budget Act should be fixed so that it must not be less than the amount of the estimate under the Central Budget Act for the preceding year, corrected by the earnings index for the previous calendar year published by the Central Statistical Office in the Official Notification, showing the annual increase in gross average earnings. The bill provides that the elected President of the Republic, who has taken an oath but has not yet taken office, will be entitled to a maximum of five secretariats, free healthcare and personal car use in order to facilitate proper preparation for his/her entry into office. The President of the Republic, who has taken an oath but has not yet taken office, may also obtain all the information necessary to enable him to carry out his duties properly after taking office. Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the Those employed in the central administration in the classic sense are currently subject to one of three status laws: the Act on Government Administration, the Public Service Officers Act or the Law on bodies with special status and the status of persons employed by them. Dear Parliament, As a technical amendment, the bill clarifies some of the rules of the legal relationship between the three laws. I urge the Member to support the proposal on the basis of what has been said. Thank you.
u2023-05-03-214	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Gréczy, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2023-05-03-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Well, what's going on here is the banishment of the republic as an ideal and institution, so they hit the cross, and then the fate of the republic is finished. But before I discuss the detailed eulogy, I would like to respond to the words of the Secretary of State, who said that Ferenc Gyurcsány is working here not to receive the EU money, and I quote from 2006. Viktor Orbán demanded the rejection of EU assistance and money at the meeting of the People's Party, Viktor Orbán wanted to withdraw EU funds from Hungary in 2006 at the meeting of the European People's Party because he said that corruption, moral relativism, poverty and vulnerability were institutionalised in his own country. It was as if Viktor Orbán was talking about his own government in 2006 just to fix this, who was fighting for Hungary to have money and not for anyone else. By the way, it is part of the same story that when Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány negotiated for Hungarian EU funds, it can also be traced back, then at the last minute he won another EUR 1 billion in the final round of negotiations for his country, which was HUF 300 billion at that time, now about 400. Returning to the ideal of the Republic, let me also quote Viktor Orbán: for us, the republic is an empty word, it was just one dress, also said Viktor Orbán in 2006. This is shocking, by the way, because the politicians of Fidesz, including many of them, took an oath on the republic in 1990, on the constitution of the Republic, and a number of KDNP politicians. It is true that they were not on the same side at the time, but they were political rivals, but there are still some of us who remember that. Now there is a very strange situation, because the term "President's Office of the Republic" will cease, but there is a President of the Republic. This reminds me of the Horthy system, where he was an admiral without the Horthy Sea, and the state form was called the Kingdom of Hungary, without having a king in Hungary. Right now, we're going to have a President of the Republic without a Presidential Office. I think it's pretty amazing. I think that for every Democrat who still cared about the idea of a change of regime, and for those who cared about the republic, they may now feel a painful shortage. But this government didn't just begin to degrade everything on which we built a new system 30 or a few years ago, since they took the statue of Imre Nagy from Kossuth Square, took away the 56 legacy flame from Kossuth Square, and eliminated the 56th Institute. Today, some fidesz politicians don't even mention the name of Imre Nagy. The Republic was built on the ideals of 1956 and on the revolution and freedom-loving Hungarian people, and now we see that the word "publishing" means virtually nothing to the Orbán government. Katalin Novak's autonomy was mentioned here in the comments of my fellow Member, who was just a fidesz. This is also quite worrying, because the President of the Republic has released a criminal convicted of acts of terrorism, and this is also not good for the President of the Republic's international and domestic judgment. For the Democratic Coalition, the Republic is an important ideal that will have to be restored when the Orbán regime is over. I consider it extremely important to note to the Parliament's minutes that the Democratic Coalition always celebrates the anniversary of the foundation of the first republic here in addition to the Parliament at the statue of István Bibó. We will never miss this event to always remember the Republic, because Hungary does not need autocracy, it does not need authoritarianism, it does not need a President of the Republic without a republic. By the way, it is no coincidence that even your Fundamental Law has been removed from the term "the Republic of Hungary". I think it's extremely embarrassing. So I conclude by saying that, of course, the Democratic Coalition will not support this proposal. Be right about János Brody: there will be more Republic of Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2023-05-03-216	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dezső, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2023-05-03-217	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I thought about how this item was going to get here, and then I listened to Mr. Secretary of State, and I realized that he was full of half-truths, so I'm going to try to supplement him, and then maybe the truth will be complete. My fellow Member, Bertalan Tóth, has already addressed a written question to the Minister of Justice, indicating that the President of the Republic uses the name Alexander Palace in official documents. In our view, and we have indicated this to the Minister of Justice, this is against the law. We got the answer from the Attorney General that no, everything's fine, it's perfectly normal. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.) What is happening now that you have brought this here makes it clear that there has been a serious violation of the law, because otherwise you should not have brought this here as an item on the agenda. So I think that it is rather uncomfortable for the President of the Republic to act in a law-breaking manner, and the Minister of Justice, who is leading the top organ in the preparation of the legislation, confirms that this is absolutely all right. [[22.00]] If this were perfectly legal, then I do not understand why they had to bring this issue here. However, I also sense that the Secretary of State is in a strange, unusual situation. After all, it is obvious that you do not need to defend your own opinion and vision now, because it is obvious, it is obvious that what has come up here as a bill was not your idea, you are trying to do something about it by law and defend it in some way. Therefore, it is obvious that what I am about to say is not primarily for you. I had the opportunity to meet, because life was formed by meeting on a forum with countless members of the population, and we tried to interpret this issue. If you think that's understandable to ordinary people, then you're wrong. There's a lot of incomprehension, and they find this measure confusing, this situation, and they don't understand it; frankly, neither do I. Not only do I not understand it, but I also have an opinion about it, but so did people. The question is, what's wrong with the Presidential Office of the Republic? There's something wrong with that, because they wanted to change it or they wanted to change it. The only thing I understand is that if you hear the expression "the Republic," you get a rash, and you get a nervous twitch. Now, does that have to lead to a name like that being arranged in this way? But I don't think it's the right direction. The name of a building should be the name of an office? Let's just think about it for a second, just like that. I'll give you an analogy to that. The Prime Minister, is that Carmelite? The Prime Minister's Office, is that a monastery or a monastery? Neither, I'm pretty sure. But what if the current seat of a government body or institution was previously a public house? So that's a whorehouse today? These were two analogies that could be traced back to virtually the same thing that you said. In my opinion, the name of the palace, the name Alexander Palace, is insensitive and extremely unfortunate. You said, as an example, that there is such a thing in the international world, the Buckingham Palace and so on. Yeah, there's a king and a queen. We don't have it, and I hope it doesn't. That's why I think it's a terrible insensitive and unfortunate name, and I don't think it's the right direction in this regard. Finally, to be serious: the President of the Republic is not just a person, it is an institution whose integrity, honour, we must be careful. He is the one who represents the unity of the nation. I think that as a principle of operation, more humility and less celebrity would be good. Thank you for your attention. [[Zsolt Gréczy applauds.]]
u2023-05-03-218	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. I give the floor to Mr Péter Balassa, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2023-05-03-219	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, T/3759 concerning the status of President of the Republic of Hungary We are discussing a number of proposals. According to Article 9 of the Fundamental Law, the President of the Republic shall set up his office. The purpose of this bill is to provide a framework for this right, allowing it to freely establish the organisation and organisational and operational arrangements of the Sándor Palace. It mainly contains rules related to technical and organisational freedom, and I would like to highlight a detail that I find quite important. The amount of the special appropriation for staff allowances under the Central Budget Act of the Sándor Palace shall be fixed in such a way that it shall not be less than the amount of the estimate under the Central Budget Act for the preceding year, corrected by the earnings index for the preceding calendar year published by the Central Statistical Office in the Official Notification. I do not dispute or dispute that they are working hard at the Sándor Palace, but I hope that the government will finally start to deal with the inflected salaries affecting most of the Hungarian people. We also know that the Fidesz government likes to build its apparatus, that the Orbán government has become more swollen than ever before, and this trend is also raised in this proposal. The elected, sworn, but not yet in office, President of the Republic's work can no longer be assisted by a secretariat of three, but five. In 2021, my fellow Member, Mr Brenner Koloman, presented his proposal to amend the Fundamental Law, which was born to introduce a direct election by the President of the Republic. Even then, but perhaps today, it is even more a general crisis that people do not feel that politics and public life are about them, they feel far away from the country's affairs. It became clear to most people that in one person the Prime Minister also decides on matters as important as who will be the next President of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, The head of state is intended to embody the unity of the nation as Hungary's main public-law dignity, and it appears as the face of the Hungarian nation and the Hungarian state. A directly elected head of state, with greater legitimacy in the eyes of the public than now, and strengthened powers, could be an important element of the brakes and counterweights that are intended to preserve democracy. Without this, the head of state, which is otherwise not too powerful, will remain, sign and seal a single essential role, apart from the symbolic, representative task. This is why the community of Jobbik-Conservatives has proposed the direct election of the head of state and the strengthening of its powers in order not to degrade Hungary's first public-law dignity into a political puppet with a valuable signature and stamp; to be a reasonable individual with substantive powers and strong legitimacy. It is a balanced civil democracy and a social market economy that, in our view, could ensure that Hungarian citizens in Europe are caught up in wages, well-being and freedom. Thank you for listening.
u2023-05-03-220	Thank you very much, Congressman. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There is a two-minute comment, I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, DK.
u2023-05-03-221	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to make one more small comment, because I think this is also a very important interpretation of the situation. He said, "Secretary of State," perhaps I quote precisely: "The palace term is closer to the people than the republic." Is the palace term closer than the republic? From the palace to the people to the wealth, to the distance from them, not to say that it comes to the mind of the rule, and the republic, I suppose, something about the common representation of our common affairs. So I think it's a fundamental misunderstanding. The palace is everything in the country of the three million people living below the minimum living standards to say that the palace term is closer; of course, there is nothing wrong with the President of the Republic working in the Sándor Palace, but I think that those two things are completely incompatible, and I say, as I said in my first comment, there is nothing here but the total liquidation of the rest of the Republic. Just as it is not included in the Fundamental Law, it is no longer included, the term "President of the Republic's Office" ceases, and now there is only President of the Republic, and it is true that he is the Prime Minister's puppet. Thank you very much. [[22.10]]
u2023-05-03-222	Thank you, Congressman Zsolt Gréczy. Dear House, I ask if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak in two minutes or even fifteen minutes. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I give the floor to State Secretary Miklós Panyi, who is obviously preparing to answer the points raised in the debate.
u2023-05-03-223	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, For 13 years, we have been constantly hearing that one of the current steps of the government and its decision is to eliminate the rest of the Republic. We have been hearing this since 2010, when the Fundamental Law came into force, it was already said, but if that is true, then how is it that you are sitting here in this Parliament? So that's all I'm saying. And I would add that the government with the democratic mandate of over three million Hungarian citizens has nothing to fear of democracy and nothing to fear from the republic. There are four-thirds majority behind this government. The political forces behind which there are billions of dollars, not citizens' support, have much more to fear. [[Zsolt Gréczy: This will have to be proved in court.]] With regard to the term "Pallota" Mr.Gréczy said that the word "palota" meant that the form of state in the Republic would cease. On the one hand, I would like to point out that the Fundamental Law lays down the form of Hungary's state, Article B (paragraph 2). I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I would also like to ask whether the idea of the Republic in France is in jeopardy because the office of the President of the Republic is in Élysée Palace. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Their traditions are different.]] No! I'd like to respond to a few other points. The President of the Republic, the President of the Republic, has the right to determine her own organisation and to define its name, not from the law, but from Article 9 (3) (m) of the Fundamental Law, which is where the legal authority comes from. As regards what the Member has said here in relation to wages, several constitutional bodies have similar powers to determine their budget, such as the National Court of Justice or the State Court of Auditors. Here, we can basically talk about technical amendments, which is why I would ask you to support the bill. Thank you very much.
u2023-05-03-224	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Miklós Panyi. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. A statement after the agenda is now due to the fact that Mr Péter Balassa, representative of Jobbik, has applied for a post-the-meet speech: When does the MÁV move to the 21st century? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-05-03-225	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I applied for a post-meeting speech. The railroad is calling! The MÁV is waiting! I don't know how you remember this ad; we're talking about 1978 advertising. I think 45 years after the advertisement, it would be worth another positive campaign for the railway company. If you look at the Hungarian railway history, Hungary had a network of 21,000 kilometres before the First World War. At the time of Gábor Baross Minister of Railways, the tariff system was established, and, if I remember correctly, the Ganz-MÁVAG locomotives served even in Africa, but also in South America. In March I wrote a letter to the Hungarian government about the Hungarian railway, about the tracks. In the letter, I expressed my concerns as to when the. Intercity Plus service and its operation will begin on the MÁV-Start InterCity line. In his reply, Deputy Minister Nándor Csepreghy wrote that they are thinking about this relationship in the medium term. In the medium term, we cannot quite understand that it may mean five years, ten years or 20 years, so I will continue to bomb it with questions on this subject. But to go further in this story: the news spread like wildfire, and if you look at the online page of MÁV-Start, you can see that in the draft agenda of 2023-24 you will have to count on travelling time expansion, so longer travel times, which is quite incomprehensible, that after nearly twenty years of EU accession, where we have spent millions of euros and Hungarian billions on rail development, then, let us say, on the Budapest-Debrecen main line, you will have to expect additional travel time, which is completely incomprehensible. It is also incomprehensible that in the East-Hungarian part, the side lines, the side branches, and even beyond the Danube, there is a journey time extension. This applies, for example, to Komárom-Székesfehérvár, but also to Pope-Celldömölk. If we look at the situation of the railway itself, it has also recently been discovered that the development of the Belgrade-Budapest railway line has been dropped by nearly 20 billion, which now requires a budget of nearly 800 billion, which will have a return time of about a thousand years. I suppose the contractors who will assist in this work will surely benefit, but the Hungarian people will not. What is important and very important in relation to CO2 emissions is that Hungarian society and Hungarian people should be persuaded to do so, and it would be the Hungarian government's job to make the development of public transport and railway a priority. What I would like to thank you for and I think it is very important: those railway workers and those railway workers who provide the comfort and service of the Hungarian people from morning to night in 0-24, I would like to thank you for your work, and I very much hope that their wages and their wage closure will be settled by the Hungarian government. I will ask the Hungarian Government a written question either about the InterCity service or the state of the Hungarian railway lines. And I cannot accept the answer given by Deputy Minister Nándor Csepreghy that they will think in the medium term about what improvements they want to make. Thank you for the opportunity.
u2023-05-03-226	Thank you very much, Congressman Péter Balassa. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speech after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. I wish you a restful good night. Meeting day's closed.
