u2023-07-03-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 1st meeting of the 2nd Special Meeting of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to everyone who's been monitoring our work. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Government is the 35th Parliamentary Act. On the basis of Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament initiated the convening of an extraordinary meeting for the period from 3 July to 7 July 2023. The letter and its attachment were found on the website. Dear House, For the longest time, I am fulfilling my sad duty to announce that József Alajos Géczi died in the 74th year of his life. József Alajos Géczi, former politician of the MSZP, first entered the National Assembly on the party's national list in 1991. Later he obtained his mandate as individual candidate in the 2nd constituency of Csongrád county and from the regional list of Csongrád county. Until 2010, he was a member of the Parliament for five cycles. Under his mandate, he was a member of the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on Minority and Religious Affairs, the Committee on Local Government and the Committee on National Security and the Chairman of the Committee on the Protection, Conflict of Interest and Verification of Judgments. Besides his political career, he was a professor at the University of Szeged. In 2020 he was awarded the Pro Urbe Award by the General Assembly of the City of Szeged. I would ask you to honor the memory of our fellow Member with a silent standing. [[The people present salute the memory of the deceased with a moment's silence.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, Péter Ungár, the leader of the LMP fraction, applied for a pre-meeting speech. I give you the floor, please.
u2023-07-03-1	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, We are now in the last days of the spring session: in this case, according to the rules of politics, there are usually speeches, where everyone will enter into some kind of hoarding contest, perhaps disparaging their opponents in different ways, and saying such incendiary speeches that increase the political divide in Hungary. It could also be summarized by the fact that every chief sees a firewood in every media report that can heat the fire of his own camp. When we think about what has happened in the last session, even though anyone has tried to create any meaningful debate, we have basically failed to account for the attention of voters. Perhaps the most spectacular is the theatre that is going on here, when it comes to the relationship between the European Union and Hungary. Here the music is very clear, the characters are very melodramatic, everyone knows exactly when the episode is coming and what season finale is to say. Usually, such people start by saying something critical to the Orbán government, it's written by his own mainstream press, it's good for him in politics, one of the State Secretarys who sits here, says something very strong, gives out a statement that says that sovereignty, then a company in this country comes into Hungary, and turns out that he doesn't pay taxes. Then Balázs Orbán puts the most basic cliché of the political thinking of the last two hundred years, saying that the world order is changing, when the world order has not changed, the Hungarian Prime Minister goes out, fights for freedom, vetoes everything that is wrong for German multinationals in the fight for freedom. Then the current leader of our liberals tells us that any Hungarian supply system has any problems, the European Commission can solve it. In the meantime, the European Commission states that it does not in any way support the increase in redistribution in the European Union, social rights in the European Union, and the end comes with apotheosis, the ultimate diversion: Viktor Orbán issues an image that Chuck Norris is good, gender is bad. This is the kind of debate that's been going on in this Parliament lately, which is bad because you can talk about things that are important. I think that regardless of party political affiliation, we all see that multinational companies have an increasing influence on our lives, that they control the world through an algorithm that we have no influence on. We see that the relationship between nature and man has been upset, and we see the consequences of that. [[13.10]] In fact, we also see that people no longer have a say in what they live in. This is only partly the fault of the Orbán government, but it is also largely their fault, because with centralization they have taken away the opportunity to decide on this, but it is also a mistake of globalisation. Overall, we can't talk about the issues that people actually care about here. I think there's a worthwhile debate about what the Parliament is supposed to do. People far more intelligent than me have been making pretty good thoughts about this. Perhaps the biggest problem here is that many think that the task of this Parliament is to shape the fate of the world. In this regard, I would like to quote Imre Madách, who says, "It's not the cock's word that he's starting to shine. But the rooster cries out because it's dawning. So, in my opinion, it is not Parliament's job to shape the fate of the world; it is our job to look at the evolution of the world, to decide what is important and what is not, and then to talk about what is important and not to talk about what is not important. In my opinion, a large part of the voters will agree with me that this Parliament has tragically completed this part-session in order to achieve this distinuation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of LMP, MSZP and Dialogue.]]
u2023-07-03-2	Tamás Menczer, Secretary of State, has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-07-03-3	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, You promised an exciting speech, and it was indeed interesting. Let me begin by saying that these four minutes, which you have summarized here, could actually be discussed for a long time, and that there is no way that we could agree on certain points, but I may not be surprised by those in which we disagree, and although you may be missing dialogue and such things, I think it is also important to talk about things, because they can take me forward and even lead me forward, in which case we may disagree. You said, if I understand correctly, that following your speech required serious intellectual work, you said that the Parliament did not do its job well, because you spoke about things that Hungarian people were not interested in. I do not agree with you on this matter. If we assume that the task of politics, Hungarian politicians, parties, government and parliament is to define what Hungarian people are interested in, what is the interest of Hungary, and then to deal with it, then we agree on this. If you say that we have not dealt with what Hungarians are interested in, and what is right in the interests of Hungary, then I must respectfully ask you to press your criticism to the left, because the government and the governing parties have not only dealt with it in recent months, but also in the past more than a decade, and even before that, we have said thousands of times that the most important thing for us is the Hungarian interest, the interests of the Hungarian people. What it is, must be correctly defined in times of peace, especially in times of war, and then, for these interests, the interests of the Hungarian people must be protected in all circumstances, regardless of the pressure on us from outside. And what Hungarian people are interested in and why I disagree with you, Mr. Head of the Group, is because, in recent years and years, crises have been following each other, and even crises are appearing in parallel. 1. Immigration. I do not think that Hungarian people are not interested in immigration. I do not think that it will affect the life of our country or even our continent. If we recall the images of 2015, the fact that 400,000 people marched through Hungary, no laws, Hungarians or internationals were observed, if we recall the terrorist attacks, if we look at what is in France, half France is on fire these days, then I do not think that migration is an important issue. I also do not think that we have not dealt with it, nor do I think that the government has correctly defined that this should be addressed. Conversely, we defined the goal correctly and set the right goal: the interests, lives and safety of the Hungarian people must be protected. Migration is on the table right now, as you know, and there is a mandatory quota on the table again, there is distribution on the table, such proposals, and once again, Western European events show the danger of migration, of not living together, of how parallel societies develop, how much this increases the risk of crime, and we also know how much immigration increases the risk of terrorist attacks. Then came the corona virus. The importance of the vaccine for the coronal virus was clear. Here too, I think we can agree that people were interested, that they were interested. It was also clear that without vaccination, we could not fight the coronal virus effectively. Here the government and the ruling parties took a pro-vaccination position; unfortunately, the left-wing parties could not be said. Then there's the war. I do not think it can be said that the people are not interested in war, Mr. Honourable Group Leader, and that is why we have said that the interests of the Hungarian people are peace, immediate ceasefire, peace talks, because it is the only way to save life. We're next door, we've taken in a million people, we're trying to help Transcarpathian Hungarians, and we're helping, and besides the Russians and Ukrainians, Hungarians die in this war, they forget that. So we know exactly how serious the situation is, and if escalation occurs, it will happen first here, next door, which is why we need peace and an immediate ceasefire. And let me even say a few words about sanctions, because war and sanctions have caused an increase in energy prices and inflation. I do not think that Hungarian people are interested in this either. On the contrary, I think they are interested, and that is why we have said that harmful sanctions must, above all, be removed in the field of energy, which must be opposed, so that we can reduce their harmful effects, so that we can preserve the standard of living and protect the lives of Hungarian people. So there are a number of important questions we talked about. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And with due respect, it's bullshit that whoever comes here doesn't pay taxes, whatever investment it is. It is important to bring investment here because of the preservation of jobs and many economic reasons. So we disagree, but let's still talk about it. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-07-03-4	I now give the floor to Bence of Turdai. [[13.20]]
u2023-07-03-5	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, In the mid-2010s, among the disillusioned Fidesz voters there was a saying that they were stealing, stealing, but at least they could govern. I don't know about you guys, but I haven't heard that saying in years because you're still stealing, but now you can't even steer. As an illustration of the first sentence, only a few news from nearby days, weeks. The Orbán family has successfully reached 100 billion forints of family wealth standing on our feet, and you are now starting to negotiate a law here in Parliament that will hand over billions of castles for free to your friends. So the theft goes well, but the government goes very, very little. I would like to highlight a specific example of which Mr Benedek Jávor, the leader of the European Parliament's Dialogue-Greens list, drew attention this weekend, which may not have been given enough attention. However, some listings prevent this from going well with government. The good secretary is resigning while a trial marked by her deputy's name is under way. A huge corruption scandal in the Völner-Schadl-Rogán case, and Judit Varga has just found the moment to resign. But while there are no tempers around the Vengeance Act, the second person in public education has also resigned. Maruzsa's Deputy Secretary of State doesn't seem to give her name to the scandal you're doing in education policy. But the leaders appointed by themselves, for example, were decapitated at the head of the army, and a cleansing wave took place there, after which Stalin would lick his ten fingers, but the Director General of OGYÉI was also replaced. So how stable the steering is, we see. But let's look at the situation on the EU front, because Viktor Orbán is apparently no longer paying much attention to domestic politics, bored by these developments, he is fighting abroad. Will you bring the EU money home? No! Does he say all kinds of nonsense about where the Hungarians' money went? Say it, and they'll deny it right away, so you'll make a fool of yourself. In the meantime, for example, Hungarian students, teachers, researchers are directly losing to the fact that already this summer there will be no more Erasmus + and Horizon programmes in which they could participate. But let's keep going. We are also voting on the budget, a budget that is clearly a budget for austerity, as every major social subsystem has less money in real terms than this year or last year, not to mention GDP-related costs compared to 2010. And iconic forms of support are cut back by half or even by a third, such as the CSOK or the baby shower credit, of which most of the stakeholders are excluded. And the situation is similar if we look at, say, the scandals surrounding the redeployment of waste management. On 1 July, a completely brazen and corrupt system will be put in place, and only the Hungarian people will drink the juice again. But perhaps the most important thing for today's topic is what has been done in green affairs. Well, not to enforce the laws, no matter how many battery companies come here now. They say if they come to Hungary, they have to comply with our laws. Now, this won't work on the Bátony tere, or anywhere else, but the NER contractors won't be able to enforce the laws when they open a mine in Recskek. And the national energy and climate plan, which I would ultimately like to discuss, when should it be delivered, ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary? On 30 June, the deadline for this presentation was set in the EU regulation, but you have failed to prepare and submit to the European Commission a review of one of the key strategic documents. You can comment on Hungary's energy and climate plan by 7 July, which is, by the way, an extremely vile, lousy job. On the one hand, it sets out very little ambitious plans, but it cannot even be supported by concrete measures. He does not talk about the righteous green transition, the treatment of energy poverty, he does not talk about how we would be independent of Russia, and he does not even mention our exposure to Russia in practice. It restarts gas power plants, increases Russian gas supplies and does not contain any substantial energy independence steps. He is deeply silent about the fact that the battery companies are making Hungary's energy demand increase, not closer, but further away from the targets. Thus, a document that is technically inadequate, but submitted late in return, can be produced in connection with the Hungarian energy and climate policy, if any. It's clearly a disgrace to the government. Fidesz's green policy has failed, and in public policy, you will receive insufficient. [[Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2023-07-03-6	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2023-07-03-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Well, it's touched a lot of subjects. The merit of a government is always decided by the electorate, as it was last year, and it was given to us and to you. As regards climate protection, I would like to assure you that the government and the governing parties are committed to climate protection. We will fulfill all our obligations. The aim is to reduce the burden on the environment without compromising the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy, and not to put much more burden on the shoulders of Hungarian families. The latter is an aspect that you do not deal with very much. On the issue of addiction: we have often talked about how this government has reduced unilateral dependence, what measures it has taken. He built interconnectors, also concluded a contract for liquefied gas, by the way, first, he bought back the containers, and, as important as that, we build more on renewable energy, including solar energy, the share of which was less than 1 percent at the beginning of the government, and then we find ourselves in the top of the EU, and this did not come from nothing. With regard to the issue of education: I look forward to a vote this week, too, because there will be a vote this week, in addition to saying general horse-zunges in relation to education, to make one specific proposal already, or to tell me which proposal you do not like. You don't like the idea that anyone who cares more about students can get more wages? Or is the proposal to finally have the legal framework for the wage increase, or is it just that you know very well that a higher wage increase will happen when EU funds arrive while you are campaigning to ensure that these do not arrive? I don't know what their exact problem is. One thing I do know is that no concrete proposals are ever made outside the general lozunge. With regard to EU funds, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that while you are calling the government to account for why EU funds are not here, on other occasions, or in interviews, you admit that you are sitting at the tables where you are placing conditions against Hungary that you believe are unfulfilled. For example, Ferenc Gyurcsány said that. So that their other politician, Anna Donáth, would stand up for a press conference and say that Brussels should put in place new conditions. Coming here to find out where the EU's money is, it's a toaster, Congressman. And while we're here, I'd like to bring up one more thing. We know more and more about your mayor being involved in some very nasty business. There's no way he could have been involved, but in terms of the outcome, it doesn't matter. According to one report, half a billion were pushed into the movement of Gergely Christmas on a few occasions, a total of 506 million, and a significant part of the amount was paid in foreign currency; and it was paid by a single person who was a left-wing municipal representative. They claim that the contents of fundraiser boxes appeared in the accounts. Of course, fundraiser boxes! So, there's something really wrong here. For how lifelike is it that, when most donations are made by reference, they collect half a billion in donation boxes mainly in foreign currency? How lifelike is that? ! [[Eszter Debate: Shame! Shame! Bence Rétvári: The collection boxes come after the nocical boxes!]] How likely it is that a movement linked to a party has received half a billion forints out of nothing, limping around 1% in terms of its support or even there. That's unlikely. It is more likely that it is a branch of the dollar scandal, the essence of which is that you have received billion-dollar support from abroad; we see it in your policy. In other cases, we would say that there is absolutely no way that Gergely Christmas did not know about this, but in the case of the mayor, the fact is that even that is possible may be involved. Just as they would have sold the Town Hall from under it so that it might not have noticed, and as DK would have outsourced it in other cases. One thing is certain, we are waiting for answers to where the half-billion-dollar grant came from. As long as we don't get an answer, there's a growing suspicion that this is a well-designed intervention and money laundering operation. We don't know the details yet, but now we understand why they continue to pursue anti-national policies. We think that Hungary deserves a better left, a left that is able to stand on its own feet in financial terms and in substance, rather than waiting for money, advice and orientation from abroad. We don't know when they're going to get here. In the meantime, let's establish: 506 million forints, 19 deposits and a failed election. We don't know where the money came from, but we do know that it was empty in the middle of Budapest's cash register. It would be nice to have some answers on this. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.30]]
u2023-07-03-8	Now, Dávid Dócs, representative of our country. I give you the floor.
u2023-07-03-9	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the floor. I can't give you such an exciting and interesting speech, but it will be very interesting, because we could talk about a lot of things, war, EU funds, budget, inflation, health, education, law enforcement, defence or lack of them, food or energy crises and the total lack and bankruptcy of the national economy, and I would like to change the subject that I have prepared for you here. Time passes, things change, it seems that it is our values and our positions that don't change, and let me start with a quote. Incompatible damage to the historic wine region of Tokaj-hegyalja if the used battery processing plant to be built on Monok is implemented, the President of the Committee of European Affairs will nail it down in his statement. [[Dr. László György Lukács: October 2008, residential forum!]] In his view, the investment significantly reduces the competitiveness of the Tokaj wine region in the case of our country's membership of the European Union. Our historical wine region would suffer such a huge disadvantage because of the planned plant that it would not be possible to make it up to it later. The battery processor would do more damage than it would profit by creating jobs in the unemployment-stricken area. This has been said exactly 25 years ago by your Prime Minister, Viktor Orbán, and yet we can now see that we do not have to worry about Tokaj-Hegyalja, but about Hungary as a whole, because we can see that the national strategy and direction that you have laid down and what you want to put in place here, and what you very much seem to be planning in the long term, I think it will still stand up to us today, that it is not our path and a road to a dead end. After all, not only do you have to worry about Tokaj-Hegyalja, but you have to worry about the whole country, because it looks very much like in the folk tale, where in the story "The Little Pig and the Wolves" the wolf would like to ask the pig for the first time, because in Hungary the announcement of the construction of a new battery factory on a daily basis, which I think will make a completely different point if we look at why a Budapest-Belgrade railway line is being built, and why China would like to install the largest chemical warehouse on the continent, which would deliver 2 million units of containers per year to Hungary and distribute virtually dangerous materials between the continent's battery manufacturing plants. We think this is a completely wrong direction, and we should build a national economy instead of filling up these foreign multinationals with money, and I see that Secretary of State Dömötör is having fun at something, so I think that the left is not expecting money from abroad, that is true, but then perhaps the current government... [[Csaba Dömötör interrupts.]] [[Csaba Dömötör interrupts.]] Well, that's what you said, and I wrote it down, and here's the quote. (Csaba Dömötör interrupts.) However, this is also true of the current government, because, as we see, instead of building an independent national economy, they expect money from abroad, from the European Union, from China, now, in this case, rather from the latter. However, we can see that this will have a very hard price, which is likely to be paid by the Hungarian people. And to be able to connect a little to the world of numbers, I would also like to say a few numbers to you, because in the last nearly twenty years, there has not been enough support in the industrial sector, practically as the Hungarian government would like to devote to battery production in the coming years. After all, if we divide the Hungarian government's Hungarian taxpayers' money by the number of jobs created, we will get very quickly that it cost nearly HUF 65 million to create a single job for Hungarian taxpayers. I would add that these jobs are not created for Hungarian people, because we can see that there is no longer unemployment, but a shortage of labour in almost the whole country, and they are not doing these jobs for Hungarian people, but we can see that people from third to fourth world countries, which I think is a problem and that if you mentioned in your previous answers, then economic migration is the same problem, which is why we do not want Hungary to continue on this path, because it is possible to calculate the end of this game very quickly. And in closing, another very wise quote was that they steal, steal, but at least they can govern for over three decades, unfortunately, but we hope that someday there will be a change. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Dr. László György Lukács: A sweeping applause!]]
u2023-07-03-10	Mr. Secretary of State János Fónagy, I apologize, Mr. Secretary, for noticing the signal.
u2023-07-03-11	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, You started with historical perspectives, let me start with that. If Hungary looks through or looks through Hungary's past half a century, in the last 30 years or even in the last 10-12 years, then it sees that the world has changed, and Hungary has also changed, and we have also changed. And what is very good is that it did, because I think what is more, I believe that it is in this country's fundamental interest to change with the world. It was quite different decades ago to define a possible development direction. In this country, 50-60 years ago, they saw the future in plastic, and if you look at advertisements from 30-40 or 50 years ago, then the intellectual message of those who said that plastic is not a replacement material, and today our problem is that the world is full of plastic, non-degradable plastics, there are advertising bags floating in the oceans, and Hungary is also campaigning in the last few days, weeks against the possibility that the liability of manufacturers will increase and plastics will not be contaminated, the world and our own country and our everyday lives. With all this perhaps looking extreme, I would just like to say that it is not possible to start from 20-30-40 years ago and project them to 2023. The world is changing, Congressman, Hungary is changing, and we are changing. As far as the current directions are concerned, allow me to spend a few seconds of my time in order to return to the fact that in 2010 we received a country that was virtually inheriting war states, the public services were in ruins, the country was indebted, the municipalities were indebted, the families were indebted, there was no money, and everyone was really struggling with daily problems. These have been restored in practically two or three years; not without victims, not by accident, and I must add that not because of the government's sole action, but because this country was able to perform the performance that enabled the country to overcome its debt service, to stand up to the pressure of large international banks, the country's performance gave the Hungarian budget to take over more than HUF 1300 billion of debt from the local governments, and this country was able to deliver the Hungarian families from the currency trap with not only a few human difficulties, but also to free them from the currency trap. I am saying this because I am asking you to take these into account when judging the current situation in such a way. The global economy explains where Hungary's industry is developing today and why we are doing what we are doing. In the world, today it looks like motorization, the need for mobilisation is increasing, and one of the important elements of this is the production of motor vehicles. I have to say that personally I was 20-30-40 years ago when Ozdon told me not to feel sorry for the furnaces, and not to maintain the Hungarian steel production using 70-80-100-year-old technology, but to look at the automotive industry, which, at that time, did not go to the electric, but even to the explosive engine sector, but was already said by the first-looking, primarily development engineers. That is what they say today, Hungary is performing in this way, and part of this is the automotive industry in Hungary, and the future of this is the battery production in Hungary. So, please, support these, too. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.40]]
u2023-07-03-12	I now give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpathian, on behalf of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2023-07-03-13	Mr President, Dear House, By 2030, according to the government's announcement, the number of people employed would increase by half a million, and although there was a lot of debate between us about how much the number of jobs actually increased, for example, I do not see any other European country where public workers would be counted on by statistics, but we should be happy for each job being created. On the other hand, the issue of the composition of this workforce may be a very strong question mark. I was very pleased when the Minister for Economic Development said at the committee meeting that they wanted to recruit workers primarily from internal resources, since the community of Jobbik-Conservatives has been saying for years that there are problems with the Hungarian activity rate. We have many inactive countrymen, and not only trapped in sack villages, who could do useful work in Hungary with adequate free re-training, with the right help, and perhaps the government failed to reveal the reasons why this would not happen. However, what we see is that in the eastern part, where the national average is double the unemployment rate, inactive countrymen do not begin to be capaced by free re-training programs to work, but by migrant workers, first by tens of thousands, later by the order of 100,000, and if we continue to do so, they will represent an increasing proportion of this 500 000 missing labour force ratio. Why can I make such a prediction? Because, Mr. Secretary, we've been through a budget debate. We have said here many times that we would like to see the free re-training programs, so that we can move the Hungarian activity rate, not streamline or smoothen the import of migrant workers, but in this budget, I stress: we do not see any substantial evidence of a mass attempt to move people who are likely to thrive in their homeland with free re-training programmes. I admit you can't all be mobilized, but if it's a hundred grand in scale, we've already made a huge leap forward. On the other hand, we can see that the latest news has been about the example of the Lenovo factory in Éllő, that according to the news, 150-200 Hungarians were replaced there as well by Filipino migrant workers, and Filipino migrant workers are only enough to hit the Google search, where the news is that the multinational companies you support from the Hungarian taxpayers, from the tax forints of Hungarian families, typically and typically import migrant workers. In essence, it doesn't matter on which side of the world there are obviously large differences in terms of integration, language and socialization, but we see that they are not trying to mobilise the Hungarian inactive workforce, but they are calling these workers from abroad in bulk and now in the order of tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands. Here we have a very important philosophical question, and the Jobbik-Conservatives respond to this with a proposal entitled "The Hungarian Quota." Is it acceptable for the Secretary of State to support jobs from tax forints paid by Hungarian families that do not enrich Hungarian families, not for the welfare of Hungarian families in their homeland, but, say, for Filipino families at home? The fact is that we are determined to support Hungarian taxpayers' jobs in Hungary, and the exact essence of our proposal is that non-refundable state aid can only be granted to a company that undertakes to employ at least 90 percent of Hungarian workers within the EEA, as defined by EU rules, and therefore typically Hungarian workers. We believe that this magnitude of hundreds of billions, which goes there in the form of non-refundable grants, can only be negotiated or debated at all if we guarantee that Hungarian jobs will be used. I do not know if you have considered how important hundreds or thousands of billions of non-refundable subsidies are to these multinational companies, we see that this is a great deal of money compared to the Hungarian budget. However, these companies produce this every year, every two years, in the form of profits, and with a very modest, very modest tax willingness, let us say that they are typically debauched from the country. We do not believe that the tax forints of Hungarian taxpayers should be given to these multi-networks at such a rate as non-refundable subsidies, but if they are, then we will stipulate that at least 90% of them should be employed by Hungarians. The essence of my question can therefore be summarized in a sentence, Mr Secretary of State: do you, like us, confess that Hungarian taxpayers' money should only enrich Hungarian jobs and thus indirectly Hungarian families? Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2023-07-03-14	Once again, Secretary of State János Fónagy has the floor.
u2023-07-03-15	Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you again for giving me the opportunity to present the Government's position on this matter. The government's aim and I very much hope that you do not dispute this, either, is that the ever stronger and increasingly significant demand for labour will be filled with Hungarian labour force, primarily by giving work to Hungarians. Therefore, the government plans to complement the stronger labour demand by increasing the economic activity of the Hungarian population, involving the inactive people mentioned by you in the labour market. There are 4.7 million people working in Hungary today. It's a record number of past decades. There is a minimum number of job seekers, and some 300-350 thousand jobseekers, currently registered, are not subject to the labour market because of their mental, health or other state in all societies. But I believe that Mr President does not want to involve them, but rather those inactive who can be trained to seek and find work on the Hungarian labour market. As I said, job seekers, inactive, under 21, over 65, underemployed and mothers with small children still have a reserve of about 300,000. So our job is to integrate most of them into the labour market. What tools should we use to do this? Allow, as an example and as a list, the National Employment Service, through support for labour market adaptation, to promote training support for workers who improve the adaptability and productivity of the employer, to provide support to job seekers in training and, in some cases, to those affected by group redundancies. The objective is to respond quickly to market needs. The GINOP Plus programme helps employers to support training to improve productivity, and to support wage support for workers who have fallen out of training, i.e. the existing Hungarian labour force, training to promote productivity and growth of Hungarian workers. Employers may benefit from vocational training, training for information and communication technologies and language training in the framework of post-employment training for the purposes of skills development. The training of inactive people mentioned by you is also supported by one of the GINOP programmes, the programme "Sponsoring, Scholarship and Supporting Their Location," but OFA Nonprofit Kft. With its support, the programme was launched recently in June 23 and thus also provides for an early registration. For parents raising young children, language and IT training and related services will be carried out in electronic distance learning form, as one of the possible categories of inactive people to be involved. In accordance with vocational training law, two basic vocational training courses and one professional qualification are free of charge. Training institutions organise initial training and renewal trainings, especially for adults, taking full advantage of this. [[13.50]] The county operates a well-established system of adult and vocational education and training in terms of labour market demand. In the labour market, the most sought after professions, vocational training and training are carried out in vocational training centres. The organisation of complex catching-up training also covers a larger circle. Honourable Congressman, I can give a long list of programmes that are aimed at the involvement and activity of the Hungarian labour force, the Hungarian labour force reserve, which is currently only moderately available in Hungary, and gives the opportunity for those involved in the work to further train themselves in this. That's what I'm asking you to consider. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-07-03-16	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Ms Kunhalmi, on behalf of the MSZP, also spoke before the agenda. I'll give the congresswoman the floor. Here you go.
u2023-07-03-17	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Annex XVIII to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended as follows: I am speaking as an individual parliamentary representative of the district of Pestszentlőrinc-Pestszentimre, not in education or anything else, but in the case of the chemical distribution, depo designed for Soroksár. I have received many letters and requests: the district people are worried, the 18th. Districts, but I have received very, very many requests in the South-Pest region about the fact that there are no guarantees under your governance that the OSH and environmental rules that exist in Hungary today will indeed be respected. I think these residents are right to be worried when they send letters. But even before I say my opinion on this, we need to feel that before they come to the point that the opposition does not perceive the industrial transformation that forces Germany, the European Union, into automotive manufacturing, or we do not perceive our energy independence, which the European Union is pushing for, we know very well in Hungary that the Germans are our strategic partners, both industrially and economically. We also know that in the automotive industry, as Mr Secretary of State has just said, we need to transform the explosive engines into electricity, so we are fully aware of that. Germany is such a major economic partner that 300,000 people work for German companies, only 150 thousand people in the automotive industry, and yes, we also know that the European Union has a common goal of being independent of Russian energy, so the Germans also pay a great price, and the brown coal mines have been brought back again. The point is that Hungary has to do its part, so the question arises: what is the problem with the battery factories, distribution companies or disposal companies that you bring here? The fact that it is very violently brought here, and it is clearly written down by the residents in their letters, is said by voters in the host hour, they want to force it down the throat of the population, and the other thing is that there is a violent industrialisation in Hungary. Let's look at the environmental stress first. My fellow green representatives have said from many sides, and I would like to draw attention to one thing, to which the residents have also drawn attention, because it is a source of a feeling that despite the government's saying that Hungarian environmental legislation is close to the European Union in this area, we are constantly finding that in these factories it is smoking to pay these money and fines, and often the government cannot and does not really want to enforce these rules. This is why Hungary is also very attractive to Far Eastern companies. In fact, with regard to the Bátony terenya, the government office, one of the state authorities, said that these fines do not actually have any deterrent effect, so there is a problem here. And one more thing about environmental protection: I think that the state has now turned on the development of renewable energy forms, but Matolcsy was right to say that if they had really dealt with it better in the last 10 to 13 years, we would not have to install so much and so much battery plant in Hungary today. But one of the biggest problems of the MSZP as a social democratic party is that not only environmental rules are not enforced, but labour and labour protection rules are not enforced. It is no coincidence that the MSZP has re-submitted its previous proposal for a decision today, in which it is clearly stated that the representatives of Hungarian employees should also be included in the negotiations before the strategic partnership agreements and that companies that receive state aid should not be able to reduce the number of employees. Two: do not hinder or even require the formation of a union with strategic partners. Three: we consider it very important that it is right to expect many billion forints in exchange for tax-paying aid to ensure that workers have safety in terms of labour protection and labour law. Four: the MSZP believes and supports this proposal for a decision that the company that seriously violates labour, occupational health and safety regulations should be prohibited for two years from all EU and Hungarian support. Hungarians give a lot of money from the tax forints to get these companies here. And finally, why are we only entering market competition at low added value, and why are we constantly entering the automotive industry at the bottom of the production chain? That question is rightly raised. The MSZP says that this is not the way and not the number of battery factories should be brought here, and we ask that both environmental and labour rules be enforced by the state, and that these battery factories should not be pushed down the throats of the Hungarian population by force. [[Applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2023-07-03-18	Madam Secretary Zsófia Koncz has the floor.
u2023-07-03-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Let me start with an update on my answer. Maroš Šefčovič, Vice-President of the European Commission, recently said as follows. He stressed that the development of a competitive and sustainable value chain for battery cell production has an extremely important role to play in Europe. He said that the European Union's battery market is growing rapidly, that the demand for batteries is expected to increase dramatically in the coming years, both in terms of mobility and storage, and that our competitors are also targeting this market. In this context, the European Commission is committed to continuing to build a single battery ecosystem in Europe, which is why we have created the European Battery Alliance, which has helped launch private investment of more than EUR 180 billion. I think that the position of the European Commission and your European allies in this matter is quite clear, and the fact is that you have said otherwise in the past. In recent times, their position has been changed by some strange situation. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in 2010, there was almost 12 percent unemployment. Now it must be acknowledged that what we have achieved in employment is a record. In 2008, let's say I was in high school, and the situation of young people was completely hopeless. [[Defiance in DK's ranks.]] I don't think there's anything funny about this, and I think that you and the former Prime Minister, right behind me, have said that you can go abroad. [[Kálmán Olga: That's not what he said! Dr. Csaba Dömötör: What did he say?]] But, yeah, that's what he said, and the thing is...
u2023-07-03-20	Ladies and gentlemen. Calm down. I'm begging you.
u2023-07-03-21	...at that time, for high school students and college students, the situation was completely hopeless. I think it must be acknowledged that this government has set the goal of creating a million jobs, that we have created so many jobs, I think it is an incredible success and result. [[Kálmán Olga: That is, for the Hungarians in London!]] Of course. [[Interviews in DK's ranks.]] , of course, with regard to battery production, as we have already said, it is important to comply with the strictest environmental rules. What you have said here, Madam President, is not true either because these are European Union standards, i.e. here in Hungary, EU environmental standards are respected and must be respected. I think it's a distortion of the facts that we've heard here, and every week, there's practically an atmosphere going on. I think that the issue needs to be discussed, but the fact that the Hungarian automotive industry has really achieved incredible successes in recent times, and it is very important that in order for the hundreds of thousands of people who work there to continue working there in the future, indeed, it is necessary to participate in this revolution that is taking place during the technological change. And you mentioned the environmental rules, Madam President, that battery production is a pre-screening activity. [[14.00]] During the preliminary examination procedure, the environmental authority examines whether the implementation of the planned activity may result in significant environmental impacts which require the conduct of an environmental impact assessment procedure. If, in the course of the preliminary examination, the environmental authority finds that there is a reason for not authorising the activity, it is not possible to grant an authorisation to carry out that activity, i.e. there are continuous checks both before and during the implementation of the activity, and even after the activity is started. I would also like to point out that while you are organizing demonstrations, you will be building a battery plant in many parts of Europe; in Germany, 14 and, by the way, 40 battery factories are planned to be built in the United States. Once again, I would like to point out that we are committed to protecting Hungarian jobs, and we are also asking the Member to be our partner in this work. And it would be very important that both in Brussels and on all kinds of international platforms [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] to represent Hungarian interests, because I think it is a very great regret that the Hungarian left simply does not respect it and we cannot [[Noise, interrogations in opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] together, acting together for the national interest. I would like your cooperation with the congresswoman. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-07-03-22	I would just like to tell the DK Members that while they were not in the room, it was quite calm. [[Defiance and interruptions in DK's ranks.]] Please, let's try to keep the House calm for the rest of the minute, so let's not interrupt anyone by yelling. [[Gergely Arató: That's why we're here, Mr. Speaker. Intercoms.]] I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, after you are one of the Residents in this regard, I will now go beyond the warnings on sanctions. So I'd like to emphasize my request. Now, Mr Ferenc Gelencsér is next, Congressman Momentumos.
u2023-07-03-23	Mr. Speaker, The spring session will be over soon. It's time to put together what's happened in the last few months. Since education is being ruined right now, let's put it this way. Let's start with the economy. The price stops will remain with us for a while, but domestic inflation is still a record record in the European Union and even within the entire continent. Let's just say the truth: the effects of price-stops spread out in the market, and finally people pay the price. There is still almost twice as much inflation in Hungary as in the Czechs or even the Poles. As a whole, inflation is only higher in Turkey than in our country; inflation in Russia is 2.5 percent and in Ukraine 15.3 percent, which has been hit by sanctions. It also shows that the war inflation text is a big lie. 195 countries are recognised by the international community, of which inflation is lower in 171 than in Hungary. You are completely incompetent if we were to draw out the members of the government at the lottery, even if this country were in better hands. Due to the fall in real wages, consumption has decreased, while you have charged interest with a 13 percent social contribution tax. Hungarians cannot pay any more taxes; none can! The other day I went into a bank to save my savings while I still have them; because you are actively working to ensure that Hungarian people do not have any savings. The customer manager has indicated that it is required to offer sovereign debt. I told him I'd take out all my savings and burn it down before handing it to people the EU doesn't give money to because they know exactly how to steal it. You know what the answer was? He came out from behind the counter, and we shook hands and he said that I made the right moral decision. Your economic performance is insufficient. Environment. Battery industry continues to expand. In recent years it has been discovered that another gigantic Chinese battery factory is arriving in Hungary, this time in Ács. The political debate in Parliament until dawn in February did not have any impact on the attitude of the state party on the environmental and economic consequences of battery factories installed and installed in Hungary. What a surprise. Meanwhile, the Hungarian government refuses to listen to the views of the Debrecen people, who are happy to say what they really think about this environmentally destructive, water-eating, low added value investment. And now they want to install a chemical depot on Soroksár for environmental performance. Health. If we thought that during this period, health care would have been left out of pro-state slumber, well, we're wrong, the elimination of the compulsory membership of the Hungarian Medical Chamber was another angle in the coffin of health care. But fortunately, those involved didn't let themselves go. 34 003 are still members of the Chamber, which means eight out of ten doctors have decided not to let you destroy a vital interest organisation. Health: insufficient. Managing our national heritage: In March 2023 a shocking bill came into the hands of the press. And that was just another gain of power, summing up the plan to reconfigurate 12 state castles into friendly hands. Local workers have been dismissed from the castles, the usual power machine has been launched to eventually lose public and public property here as well. Managing our national heritage: insufficient. Alliance policy. Hungary has still not accepted the request of the Swedish people to join NATO. After you received permission from Erdoğan, we at least let our Finnish relatives into our joint defence organization, but it took nine months. Meanwhile, our country's government serves Russian interests as a hypocritical peace pigeon in a struggle in which the democratic half of the world knows exactly who the aggressor is and who the attacked. Insufficient performance from alliance policy. Education. In conclusion, as education is a vital issue, I left it at the end because it is the most serious. The Erasmus case was only the beginning, but despite all the denials, we are there that universities do not seem to be able to participate in Erasmus + and Horizon 2024-25 programmes. Hungarian researchers are increasingly looking out for them in Europe, and they are the least of their faults. And, of course, there is the status law, but let's just call it the Vengeance Act, which is unprepared, the proposal of ignoring professional organisations and the immediate termination of up to 5,000 teachers. At the same time, students who protested for their future were rewarded with batoning, tear gas in the spring of the year, and some of them had access to the privacy of the police waiting room. Education and child protection: insufficient performance. You have betrayed Hungarian entrepreneurs, you have betrayed Hungarian doctors, you have betrayed Hungarian teachers, you have betrayed Hungarian researchers, you have betrayed Hungarian students, you have betrayed this country. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2023-07-03-24	Tamás Menczer, Secretary of State, has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-07-03-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, There are a lot of things that you've wasted here, and of course I'd like to respond to a few of them, and I think it's important. But first of all, with due respect, because you are the president of a party, let me assure you of my understanding that I understand this great heat, this incomprehensible speech drifting into a brawl, this vehemency, because everyone knows that you are leading a party in quotes that you are not actually leading. I mean, there's a fight between the former president, who we know most of all doesn't make sense, but it was a memorable moment for him to put the electric scooter in the shower, and he's going down and the next president about who's running this party. So you are virtually useless, so I understand, honourable Member, I would like to assure you of this heat and this anger and my understanding of this. Honourable Congressman, He mentioned a lot of things about the economy, and I would like to respond to that, but before I do that, let me mention one thing. Because you didn't mention one thing, honourable Member. You didn't tell me you wanted peace. He didn't say anything about peace, he didn't say anything about an immediate ceasefire... [[Interventions in the benches of MSZP, DK and Momentum.]] Mr President, once again, I would like to assure you of my understanding of your state of nerves, but I would like to return to more important questions. [[Szabolcs Szabó: Don't get personal!]] So you didn't talk about the immediate ceasefire, you didn't talk about peace, you didn't talk about the need to end this war immediately, because that is the Hungarian interest. You have talked about many things, many problems, but the reason for all the current problems and difficulties is that there is war in our neighbourhood, people are dying in addition to the Ukrainians and the Russians Hungarians, please remind your Western friends of this at times, because they tend to forget, and you want to continue the war, you want to prolong suffering, and war plus harmful sanctions cause inflation and price increases. So if you are concerned or concerned about economic issues and the standard of living and safety of Hungarian people, as you do not, then talk about peace and talk about the need for an immediate ceasefire and peace talks. But that's not what you do, that's not what the whole left does, but that's not what Momentum does. You are pro-war, you always say that the war must go on and on and on. [[14.10]] And this, honourable Member, comes to mind from the film '50 Hours of Death', when they say that the war continues [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Don't lie.]] Here's the question: for how long? To infinity, to and from. You represent a pro-war position, honourable Member. And let me also mention here that your decision and prophecy cannot be trusted, since your politician's next president, your successor, Anna Donáth, said a year ago that sanctions would crush the Russian economy. The Russian economy thankes you very much, you're fine; the war continues. Your representative, Mr Tompos, said at the beginning of this year that the Russians in the war will be exhausted in seconds and the war will be over. War is more brutal than ever. Your mistakes are not what this country can and cannot bear, which is why you have not been authorized by the electorate to lead this country. [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] Now, not to mention that you supported a candidate for Prime Minister Péter Márki-Zay, who would be willing to send soldiers into this war; and you are a junior partner of the Gyurcsány Party, and you are his younger siblings, which is a party and which is a party leader Ferenc Gyurcsány said that anyone who does not want to die for Ukraine is a lousy person. I apologize for the literal quote: life must become a shitty figure according to Ferenc Gyurcsány, and it is immoral to want peace. That is what your leader, Ferenc Gyurcsány, said, and this is outrageous and unacceptable, as is your pro-warness. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: You're lying!]] So let me tell you again: if you really care about the Hungarian people, then care about peace. And with regard to the economy, let me draw attention to just a few numbers. While your colleagues have indebted and destroyed this country in peacetime, we are constantly reducing public debt, for example, with crises; one million more people in Hungary than in 2010; real wages have increased by more than 70 percent without family support, with almost 80 percent of family support. The amount of pensions has been doubled by 20%; [[Kálmán Olga: inflation...]] despite Covid two years ago, economic growth was above 7 percent, in the last year 4.6 percent; we brought back the 13th month pension; the family support system was wide worldwide and young people were tax-free. If you really care about the interests of the Hungarians, then help us protect them; but we cannot expect that from you! Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-07-03-26	Now it's Ferenc Gyurcsány's turn. I give you the floor.
u2023-07-03-27	It's been a terrible year, and the next thing we know, it's only gonna get worse. [[Bence Rétvári: No December!]] Viktor Orbán's radical right-wing government has played the country's honour and lived up to the country's reserves. We've run out of big plans, no vibrant dreams, common national goals; what's left is loneliness, drifting, stagnation. [[Bence Rétvári: Pangás Brezhnev!]] I am not talking about the Prime Minister's international rampage, but rather about the problems of everyday life. At your will and under your direction, Hungary was created where one third of the nation's wealth is held by one percent of the wealthiest population; while the majority of public burdens are held by those with livelihoods and problems. You have created a country in which, over the last year, people have lost an entire month's income due to inflation. About 50 percent more expensive bread, a series of dairy products, eggs. This is why people can buy significantly less than last year. The era of food poverty has begun. And this inflation was not caused by the war, nor even by the sanctions that you have voted in order. European record Hungarian inflation is a sign of the lack of talent, incompetence and price of the Orbán government. Your government has led to 700 unfilled GP jobs; hundreds of settlements have only been ordered once a week by a GP. In addition, 9 000 nurses are missing, resulting in hospital classes being terminated or withdrawn. What you have achieved is that there are already 16,000 vacant teachers and 14,000 vacant pedagogical staff in schools. [[Bence Rétvári: How do you know that?]] Because of the status law you are planning to introduce violently, at least 5,000 teachers have indicated their intention to resign. Because of their corrupt system, European taxpayers do not want to use their own money to develop Hungary. We have lost some one million forints per family because you are more concerned with the corrupt system that gives you power than Hungary. You deceived the Hungarians: a year ago they promised that everything would be better; then it turned out that everything was worse. They have removed the general reduction in the rent that you have previously declared untouchable, the simple form of taxation chosen by hundreds of thousands, the kata; they are withdrawing the baby shower loan from couples over the age of 30; in the cities, the family housing discount, the CSOK, will be abolished. This is what your government has brought, which, let's just say, they didn't say a loud word before the election, and they said the opposite. [[Intercom from the benches of the governing parties: No!]] We think we need to do something different and do it with someone else. [[Intruder from the benches of the governing parties:]] Millions of tortured people need to be given back hope of a better life, respect for work, recognition. Instead of talking about war with the Prime Minister, it's time to deal with life and people. [[Bence Rétvári: A live, flesh and blood war...]] We need decent, social democratic policy for Hungary and people, peace, respectable wages, pensions, affordable prices, smart, open school, healthy health care, and, of course, fair public burdens. And then the billionaires pay for this naturally, which is what the Democratic Coalition recommends to Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2023-07-03-28	I give the floor to State Secretary Csaba Dömötör.
u2023-07-03-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Maybe we can agree on one thing, it's been a tough year. I could also say, with your word, that it's been a very difficult year, but for the reasons we disagree. Everyone knows that not only Hungary, but Europe's difficulties are caused by war and the wrong answers to it. [[Kálmán Olga: Inflation...]] Now, one thing I would like to ask you in chief: how does it feel to talk about national wealth with you becoming wealthy from privatization? [[Intercom from the benches of the governing parties: That's right!]] How does it feel to talk about national wealth when, during your governance, a significant part of the Hungarian industry has been distributed through privatisations? Or I could ask you: how does it feel to talk about national wealth from a confiscated villa, a family that has done a great deal to keep this country from being on the side of the winners in recent decades? [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: You're lying...]] Now, as far as living issues are concerned. At a time like this, when we are living in an extraordinary time, it is necessary for the work of many, for the cooperation of many and for the suggestions of many, but if there are politicians from whom we are reluctant to accept proposals, it is you. [[Intercom from the benches of the governing parties: That's right!]] And not just because he had his own shots fired, not just because we think differently about the world, and not because he announced a program 12 times when he had the opportunity to govern, but because we saw what became of it! [[Bence Rétvári: None of them have been realized!]] It's not just because of this, but because we have a clear way of comparing what it's like to be governed by you or what it's like to be governed by you and what it's like to be governed by this side. When you handled the crisis, the economy decreased by 7 percent; it has increased by almost 5 percent in the last year. When you were on the government, you increased the minimum wage by HUF 23,000; this government has tripled it. During your administration, there was no overhead support; we maintain it despite your attacks. And if they're worried about jobs, why didn't they have a word when unemployment was 12 percent? Now it's a third. But also to say the current things, in case you'd like to say why I'm referring only to the period before 2010. When we're putting in price-stops, why aren't they supporting it, why are they saying that it's stupid? When we advertise interest-stops, why don't you support it? [[Kálmán Olga: Ask Matolcsy...]] When we have fought sanctions that will put the whole European economy to rest, why do they not support this fight? [[14.20]] When energy price increases represent an extra $4,000 billion for the whole country, why would they submit tax increases that would add an additional burden of $3,200 billion to Hungarian families? Why would they want to increase corporate tax at a time like this? And when pensions are raised, why not add that you did not raise to them but took me away from them? We were the ones who returned the 13th month. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You haven't returned the 13th month for 12 years!]] I could continue the line, but I have a feeling, honourable Member, that you are more interested in lies than any facts. Therefore, while we are here, I would like to make three requests to you as the true leader of the left. Firstly, I would like to ask you to act with all possible means against financing left-wing parties from abroad. If the references continue to be made to billions, it will not be a left-wing policy, it will be a mercenary. We also ask you not to demand your mayors to fight with the government. One day, we saw Gergely Christmas screaming at him, who ruffled all his political feathers the next day, and began a fierce war with the government, so much that he did not even want to pay taxes, instead of watching how we can work together for Budapest or for other cities. Our third request concerns EU money. You admitted, I quote, that you were there when you declared conditions to be unfulfilled against Hungary. What were you thinking? Are they working against their own country as Hungarian representatives? Who's good at this? I'm asking you not to do this. And in the end, they say it's their patriotic duty! [[Kálmán Olga: Don't steal!]] Dear Mr. Gyurcsány, In the last year, the left has been pursuing the same anti-national policy as before the election, and on top of that, they have not shut down foreign money taps, they want to turn local governments into combat jobs, and they have done everything they can to prevent us from getting the EU money that is otherwise due to us. This policy would not have been possible if you had not wanted it, this policy would not have been possible without your guidance. So I'm asking you to make a change. If the safety of the country or the livelihood of the Hungarians matters, I ask you to leave the road you went to in Autumn! It's gonna be a little difficult at first, maybe a little unknown, but believe me, it's worth it. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] And as far as your shadow government is concerned, everyone knows that you're actually in charge of this, and until you change this policy, [[The president's ringing again.]] Until then, this shadow government will remain in the shadows. I think it's better for everyone. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-07-03-30	Now Imre Vejkey, representative of KDNP, asked for the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-07-03-31	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, 494th day of the Russian-Ukrainian war, and we're at the eleventh day of the sanctions package. More than a year ago, the sanctioning madness began, Brussels mantrasted over a year ago that its sanctioning policy was successful, and that sanctions had already brought Russia's collapse on its knees, and that the criminal measures had brought Russia to its knees. Ladies and Gentlemen, So this is the Brussels mantra, but where are we really now, what is the truth? The truth is that Brussels, with sanctions, did not stop the war and did not defeat Russia, but the war and suffering continue, and Brussels is thinking about new sanctions and pushing the weapons companies to the top. Of course, there is no reason to wonder, because peace is not the goal, but the pursuit of economic interests, because it is money, a lot of money, and we see that money is talking, and human lives do not matter. America dictates, and Europe blows the American song. For the bureaucrats in Brussels, it does not matter that, while Europe is on its knees, they are on their knees, because Europe's economy is creaking today. There are massive capital speculations, Soros's capital speculators are ruthlessly exploiting war chaos. It's like a card game where the bank deals, but it never loses. Ladies and Gentlemen, While there is an unprecedented crisis in Europe, Brussels is throwing money into the Russian-Ukrainian conflict with both hands, in principle to end the war, the war that should not have broken out. Allow me to quote a wise Hungarian saying: "Stand as long as your blanket is worth! We also recommend this to the bureaucrats in Brussels. Ladies and Gentlemen, What we see is that the Brussels elite is now using all means to fill the EU's fast-paced cash register due to the financing of the Ukrainian war with the smearing of the Member States. Helping Ukraine has already cost the EU, the Member States, more than EUR 70 billion, and now another 50 million. [[Sic!]] They want to demand some extra money for the operation of the EU machinery, and they are asking for an undetermined amount for the repayment of EU debt, i.e. serious hundreds of billions, not to mention that the Member States may be in a serious debt trap. They want to ask the Member States to give it to Ukraine, while they could not even account for the money they had already given Ukraine. Ladies and Gentlemen, Brussels also wants a lot of money from the Member States to pay interest on previously borrowed EU loans; these are the loans from which Hungary and Poland have not yet received a penny. The Commission is asking Member States for additional money for migration, not for protection, but for the import of illegal immigrants. Brussels bureaucrats also ask for billions of euros to raise their own salary, as well as more money to pump into their own surreal communication. To such an extent, it is absurd that there is almost no EU citizen who does not have the knife in his pocket. Ladies and Gentlemen, We do not need the mantra in Brussels, nor the endless line of sanctions packages in Brussels, but the ceasefire as soon as possible. All means must be used to ensure a ceasefire and peace as soon as possible. We Christian Democrats, along with the Government of Hungary and the Pope, proclaim peace. There is no other way, not sanctions, but common sense, because, as Pope Francis said, we must find peace in the world, a peace that begins above all in the hearts. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-07-03-32	Once again, Secretary Dömötör has the floor to answer.
u2023-07-03-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, First of all, a few words about economic conditions. The most important task ahead of us is to improve and help the livelihood of Hungarian families in the current war period; to keep the economy on a growth path, to protect jobs, and to protect in general all the results that we have achieved over the past decade, even if we do not receive too much support and help for this. If someone looks at the budget put to the vote this week, they see these goals coming back from it. It clearly shows that we want to protect the overhead support, we want to build protection against inflation, while providing sufficient resources to protect the country, because we do not want war, but we must be able to defend ourselves in every possible way. Dear House, Our room for manoeuvre is also determined by the development of the international economic environment and the decisions taken in Brussels. The situation is not exactly rose-flowered, because we have reached the point of emptying the EU register, so they have started campaigning for additional funds from Member States. We can ask how we got here. There are two main reasons: in particular, the EU has already spent amazing amounts on the Russian-Ukrainian war, on the one hand, on direct support to the Ukrainian state, on the other hand, on arms purchases, on the absurdly called the peace framework; on the other hand, the interest burden on the recovery fund has been poorly assessed. This fund was, as is known, based on joint borrowing, and the repayments were much higher than they had calculated. [[14.30]] That is why the Brussels people are now touring the Member States to pay extra funds into the register. We also know, Honourable House, that these extra sums would be spent on: mainly for further financing Ukraine, then for managing migration, not for stopping it, but for managing it, which would also be linked to the allocation quota, and then spending the extra payments on the rising interest burden and something else: the increase in the salaries of Brussels bureaucrats. So we are being asked to raise our salaries at a time when the cash register has been empty because of their decisions, and the sanctions they look at have caused inflation to rise everywhere and even the European economy to slow down. After that, asking for money for a raise, for a raise in Brussels, it really exhausts the well of cynicism. Moreover, they are asking Hungary for more money without having received a spoonful of iron from the EU funds that are otherwise due to us. They hold them back for political reasons, but we give more of the country's money to patch up the consequences of their own mistakes. And what were they thinking? ! In any case, this is not going to work, because the point is, Hungary wants to continue to be the voice of peace in the European Union, which is on the brink of war, whose register is now empty. This is another reason to work for a change of direction in Brussels policy, because we think that Europe and the European Union deserve much more than they now receive from the leaders in Brussels. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-07-03-34	I give the floor to János Halász, representative of Fidesz, as the last speaker before today's agenda. Here you go.
u2023-07-03-35	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The national security report on foreign influence of last year's parliamentary elections has been public for a week now. Resolving the encryption is correct, Hungarian voters should be aware of the worst attempt to intervene abroad in the last 30 years. It has already been revealed that businesses linked to Biden administration have tried to join the Hungarian election campaign by billions. From Péter Márki-Zay to Ferenc Gyurcsány, the entire left hand received the rolling dollars, and they spent them on the campaign, bypassing the laws. This is a serious interference with Hungary's sovereignty, the Hungarian elections. So the entire Hungarian left tried to convert his country into a dollar. [[György Balla: That's right!]] Dear House, The latest report also demonstrated the involvement of Mayor Gergely Christmas. Turns out, some people supported the Christmas 99 movement by over 500 million, plus cash. His partner, Gábor Perjés, paid the money in 19 installments, sometimes in euros and sometimes in English pounds. An ordinary person has paid tens of millions of currencies in several instalments in cash, probably in different places, but certainly in the same account, while he has never had so much money. Let's just say that's unusual. Gergely Christmas has to account for where this 500 million HUF cash grant came from. Your explanation so far is quite ridiculous. It seems that you didn't write it. Ferenc Gyurcsány dictated it. It contains such nonsense that there is no living person to believe it. The Mayor claims that more than 500 million forints of cash, consisting of several currencies, were collected with the closed fundraising box of the 99 Movement, which was not indicated at all on the movement's website. How lifelike is it that hundreds of millions of grants are given in foreign currency, in cash, with everyone referring today? Well, not at all. For the sake of clarity, therefore, on Friday Fidesz-KDNP turned to the Attorney General and the Minister of Finance for cash support for Christmas. We'd like to know if there's been a report of money laundering. It also raises questions that the Mayor claims that they were collected from Hungarian donors. But then how come most of the money was in euros and pounds? How could it be donated if there was no sign on the movement's website of where the donations were expected? Dear House, The left took money from abroad. You can't do this! They made a campaign out of this money, which the law forbids. In such cases, the rule is clear: up to twice the amount of money accepted must be repaid. The left also tricked which organization how and how to drain these funds. The 6-8 so-called micro donators who finance the Hungarian left from the left billionaires of the United States should realize that they, the Hungarian left, are stealing even the sponsor money. Dear House, Over the last 33 years, there has been consensus among political parties that foreign money cannot finance political campaigns, thereby gaining power, as it means abandoning the sovereignty of the country. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] This consensus has been overturned by the left. If they had won the election, their financiers would have submitted the bill. This is a serious historical crime for left-wing politicians. Overall, the issue of the dollar left is a serious threat to Hungary's sovereignty, which must be combated. The ban on foreign party financing is clearly enshrined in the law, the rules are clear, but there are gaps that the left has used. We're not gonna let that happen, we're gonna change the law. The relevant tightening is in the preparatory phase, and we will not allow the left to exploit legal gaps and expose our country to foreign influence. The government can still rely on the Fidesz fraction to protect our national sovereignty. With the full force of our fraternity, it supports the government in its efforts to prevent foreign influences. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-07-03-36	Once again, Tamás Menczer, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2023-07-03-37	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I have to admit to you that I have been naive about this kind of thing, and it is good that you recognize it, especially in politics, because in recent years we have seen crises following each other and even appearing in parallel, and at the same time we have seen that the left has always taken a stand against the Hungarian interest; and with a naive, childish, undisturbed spirit, I asked how this was possible, because if not for other reasons, they would have to make mistakes on the Hungarian interest at times, even on the basis of the law of large numbers, and this did not happen. How is that possible? And now we've got an answer here in the past few days. The answer to that question is that they're bought for pounds. It's the only answer. There is no other answer than this, that they have sold themselves and therefore represent foreign interests instead of Hungarian interests. Now that means, honourable Member, honourable House, that, on the one hand, the Hungarian left has already given up the representation of the Hungarian interest in principle. So in practice, he hasn't done it before, but now he's given up on principle. The other thing that all of this means is that they do not want to win elections in Hungary, representing Hungarian interests, gaining the confidence of Hungarian people, but they want to win the election abroad, using foreign resources, using foreign power, and they want to turn this into political power in Hungary. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think it is true that Hungary deserves a fairer left, but this is what we have to deal with. You are absolutely right that this is a matter of sovereignty. So whoever sells himself sells his sovereignty, sells his independence, and thus sells the sovereignty of the country and the independence of the country. So the Hungarian people did not, by accident, empower the left with the direction of the country, and now we know that if it had been authorized, they would not have been in charge, but the foreign circles, foreign farmers, those who gave the money. Now let me bring you a few more quotes, honourable Member. Tamás Mellár, a representative of the Dialogue, said about one of the largest speculators, the greatest speculator, György Soros:, He earned his wealth by being able to speculate well, which is not science, but art. György Soros, an artist, said Tamás Mellar. [[14.40]] I'm just saying, in a country bar, they usually answer in a less sophisticated way, but now we're gonna say, let's just say that you only say that when you're paid, let's just say that. The other thing we also know is that Daniel Freund, the European leader of the Hungarian left, said that the position of the Hungarian government is. no migration, no gender, no war. So it became clear why, for example, the Hungarian left is pro-immigration. It is now clear that if the Hungarian government says, "No migration" and the answer to Brussels, then we can understand why István Ujhelyi said that there is no and there will be no mandatory quota, even though it is here on the table. We can understand why Gyula Molnár, former president of the MSZP, now a good representative of the Gyurcsány Party, said that there will be no refugee quota. Here's the refugee quota, the mandatory quota back on the table. We can understand why you said Zsolt Legány I would draw attention, if I remember correctly, to this excellent cigarette smuggler, former socialist gentleman [[Defiance and interrogation in the pro-government ranks.]] He also said that there is no proposal for a compulsory resettlement quota on the agenda, not only is it on the agenda, but they want to push it stronger than ever before. Bertalan Tóth said that there is no mandatory quota and there will be no quota, but there is. Márton Gyöngyösi, President of Jobbik, said that there is no other solution, that immigrants from Syria should be granted asylum. By the time the questioner asked whether this was the mandatory quota, Martin Gyöngyösi clearly replied yes. So they're all pro-immigration, because that's what they published. Similarly, they took a stand against the Hungarian interest during Covid's time, and now they stand against the Hungarian interest during the war. Today I had the opportunity to talk about it in two sentences; I would like to speak again in two sentences, because it is worth it. They said on the left a year ago that sanctions would crush the Russian economy, no sign of that. And they said months ago that the Russians in the war would be exhausted in seconds. The country cannot bear the mistakes of the left, which is why we need to protect our values and our common achievements against the left. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-07-03-38	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2023-07-03-39	Dear Parliament, László Varju, DK; Balázs Barkóczi, DK; Andrea Hegedüs, DK; Zoltán Varga, DK; Judit Ráczné Földi, DK; János Bencze, Jobbik; Szabolcs Szabó, Momentum. Antal Csárdi, LMP; Tamás Mellár, Dialogue; László Toroczkai, Mi Hazank; János Bencze, Jobbik; Zsolt Molnár, MSZP; Dávid Bedő, Momentum; László Varju, DK; István Simicskó, KDNP; Barna Pál Zsigmond, Fidesz. Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; János Bencze, Jobbik; Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; Péter Jakab, independent; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Péter Balassa, Jobbik; Ferenc Gelencsér, Momentum. On Friday Dóra Dúró, Mi Hazank; Novák Előd, Mi Hazank; Eszter Vitalyos, Fidesz; Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Péter Jakab, independent; Zsolt Nyitrai, Fidesz; Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik; Dávid Dócs, Mi Hazank.
u2023-07-03-40	Dear Parliament, I declare that Balázs Barkóczi, Ferenc Dávid, Zoltán Komáromi, Lajos Oláh, Judit Ráczné Földi, László Sebian-Petrovszki and representatives of Olga Kálmán have informed me that they have formed the group called artificial intelligence. [[Interjections and clarity in the pro-government ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] No reason to disturb the peace has been raised, honourable Members. [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]] According to the rules of the house, the formation of the group does not affect their membership of the faction. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time shall be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. We will now decide on an exceptional proposal. The Government initiated an exceptional procedure for the Parliament to discuss the second edition of 2022 on the list of Ministries of Hungary. T/4545. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The Government has initiated the possibility of submitting amendments within three hours of the decision on the exceptional procedure, the consolidated debate on Tuesday, 4 July 2023, T/4252 on the sustainable development of certain elements of cultural heritage. Before the general debate on the draft law No 20, the decision on the proposal for a summary amendment and the final vote shall take place on Friday 7 July 2023. Rule 62 of the House Rules Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. I would like to draw your attention to the need for a vote in favour of more than half of the Members, i.e. one hundred Members, to order an exceptional procedure. Dear Parliament, I ask you to accept T/4545. Submitted in exceptional proceedings pursuant to the national motion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has accepted the proposal in exceptional proceedings by 126 votes in favour, 33 votes against and 6 abstentions. In accordance with our agreed decision, amendments can be submitted at 5:47 p.m. today. We are now deciding on a motion to amend the agenda. The Fidesz Group has proposed that the Parliament's proposal for an extraordinary meeting of 3-4-7 July 2023 should be amended to allow the vote on interpellations and the election of Commission officials and members to take place at the beginning of the decisions and decisions on Tuesday 4 July 2023. Anyone who agrees with that, please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. I declare that the DK Group has proposed to supplement the agenda proposal, which is proposed in the House Rule 15 of the Decision. I refused pursuant to paragraph 4a of Section 4a, given that it was not subject to the House Rule 15. In accordance with paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Act on Parliament, it was submitted, and subject to Article 35 of the Act on Parliament. Paragraph 1 of the Act and Article 16 of the Rules of Procedure. Pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section 3 of the extraordinary sitting, only a single motion may be placed on the agenda, which shall be entitled to be placed on the agenda at the initiative of the extraordinary meeting, in this case one fifth of the Members of Parliament shall request. The proposer of the rejected proposal initiated the repeal of the President's decision. The Parliament would decide without a debate, with a raise of hands. At the same time, Mr Ferenc Gyurcsány Group leader initiated a repetition of the vote using a voting counting machine. In view of this, the raise-up vote will be held by using a machine counting the vote. In accordance with the motion, I am now asking the Honourable Parliament to maintain the scope of the OE-42/448-1/2023. President's decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House maintained the President's decision by 119 votes in favour, 45 votes against and one abstention. I declare that the Momentum Group has also proposed to supplement the agenda proposal, which is proposed in the House Rule 15. I also rejected it pursuant to paragraph 4a of Section 4a, given the surprising fact that it was not granted by HSZ 15. In accordance with paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Act on Parliament, it was submitted, and subject to Article 35 of the Act on Parliament. Paragraph 1 of the Act and Article 16 of the Rules of Procedure. Under paragraph 3 of Section 3 of the extraordinary sitting, only a separate motion entitled to be placed on the agenda at the initiative of the extraordinary sitting may be placed on the agenda, in this case one fifth of the Members of Parliament shall request it, as is well-known. The proposer of the rejected proposal initiated the repeal of the President's decision and initiated the use of a ballot counting machine instead of a raise-up vote. In accordance with the motion, I am now asking the Honourable Parliament to maintain the scope of the OE-42/449-1/2023. President's decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the President's decision was maintained by the House by 119 votes in favour, 46 votes against and one abstention. [[14.50]] There is now a surprising turn of events, as I would like to announce that the MSZP Group has also proposed to supplement the agenda proposal, which is proposed in the House Rule 15. I also refused pursuant to paragraph 4a of Section 4a of the Rules of Procedure, given that it was not subject to Article 15 of the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Act on Parliament, it was submitted, and subject to Article 35 of the Act on Parliament. Paragraph 1 of the Act and Article 16 of the Rules of Procedure. Pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section 3 of the extraordinary sitting, only a single motion may be placed on the agenda, which shall be entitled to be placed on the agenda at the initiative of the extraordinary meeting, in this case one fifth of the Members of Parliament shall request. The petitioner of the rejected proposal initiated the repeal of the President's decision, and Mr Bertalan Tóth also initiated the use of a ballot counting machine. In accordance with the motion, I am now asking the Honourable Parliament to maintain the scope of the OE-42/450-1/2023. President's decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the President's decision was maintained by 119 votes in favour, 46 votes against and one abstention. Dear Parliament, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has informed me that he intends to propose the appointment of President Katalin Novák as Minister of Justice Bence Tuzson and János Bóka as Minister of Justice for European Union Affairs. To this end, he initiated the ministerial oaths to take place at our extraordinary meeting starting today. On this basis, I declare that Bence Tuzson and János Bóka's ministerial oath will take place on the Tuesday day of our extraordinary meeting starting today after the election of the members of the Constitutional Court or the taking of an oath. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on Hungary's central budget for 2024 and the final amendment proposal follow up, but before I give the floor to the first speaker, I am ordering a two-minute technical break, demanding my fellow Members to leave the Chamber quickly and quietly. (Sunning: 14.52 14.55) President: Mr Sándor Lezsák Note: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Szűcs)
u2023-07-03-41	Dear Parliament, I'd like to ask you to continue your discussions in the hallway. I salute the Secretary of State, the Secretary of State, my fellow Members and our guests. We'll get back to work. The Commission's reports on Hungary's central budget for 2024 and the final amendment proposal follow up. The submission is T/4181. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I inform the Parliament that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. The detailed discussion of the draft budget law was carried out by the committees. Report by the Committee on Budgets as a designated committee on the detailed debate T/4181/458. I - CASE T-4181/457 and the Commission's amendment closing the in-depth debate I) and the reports of the committees relating to the debate are T/4181/450-456. and 460, 462, 464-467 are available on the IT network. Dear Parliament, Draft amending proposal of the Committee on Budgets T/4181/469. The summary report on the Commission's proposals for amendments to the in-depth debate was T/4181/470. Available on the website. The rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets will be the first to take the floor in the debate. I should remind you that, according to the provisions of the House Rule, the rapporteur of the committee, with a summary of the opinions of the negotiating committees, and the description of the minority opinion, in summary of the minority opinions expressed in writing, can speak within a total 60-minute time frame, with 30 minutes for the presentation of the minority opinion. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to notary Lajos Szűcs, rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets. You have the floor, Mr. Notary.
u2023-07-03-42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Your Honour, Secretary of State. Dear fellow Members, We have a bill on the budget for 2024, the general discussion of which took place between 13 and 15 June in a 30-hour timeframe. The Budget Act was also discussed by all the standing committees of Parliament and the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities. As rapporteur for the designated committee, I would like to present his views. Each of the negotiating committees concluded that the bill complied with the resolution house rule 44. § (1) of the Act meets the requirements of the Fundamental Law, so the bill complies with the substantive and formal requirements arising from the Fundamental Law and is in line with the obligations arising from international law and related to European law. In those negotiating committees where no opinions have been drawn up, I will not repeat this compliance in the legal system, I will only present to you the opinions expressed in the committees and recorded in writing. [[15.00]] The Committee on Budgets was the first to share its opinion with you. Due to the energy import demand of the Hungarian economy, our country has been particularly affected by the energy crisis that has peaked last summer. The price of natural gas and electricity has multiplied, the price of imports has caused a deterioration in the balance of payments, and the forint has also weakened significantly against the main currencies over the past year. The spill-over of food and raw material prices, along with the historical drought, caused significant food inflation in Hungary as a result of the failed Brussels sanctions policy. In such economic circumstances, the objective of the government to protect the results of recent years can be regarded as a serious commitment. The government intends to maintain the reduction of the rent, the system of family support, and to protect Hungarian jobs. The government maintains the Rezségvédelmi Fund, which ensures the protection of families and businesses from rising energy prices, and helps families, public and municipal bodies and companies to pay their bills by about HUF 1400 billion in the fund. In view of the external factors, the normalisation of raw materials and energy prices on the world market, the ability of the economy to adapt, is expected to reduce global inflationary pressures, and thus the rate of Hungarian price increases will be much lower in 2024, which will allow real wages to rise significantly again. Next year, the country's financial margin will be significantly improved if Hungary receives the EU budget for it. The government and we trust that the funds for Hungary will finally arrive in Hungary after a long political delay. Opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. One of the largest items of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade budget is the operation of the foreign representation network, for which approximately HUF 117 billion is available in 2024, with HUF 14 billion more than in 2023. The largest appropriation, the budget for scholarship and training programmes will remain the same as forint 42 billion. Own generation of electricity is a key issue for keeping energy prices in check and maintaining energy security, in which the new blocks of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant will play a key role. The early construction of the commercial plant of the two new blocks is one of the priority objectives of the portfolio. Opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development. This year's HUF 81 billion from the budget of 2024 will be allocated to energy upgrades of HUF 120 billion. One and a half-fold increase in the framework promotes, among other things, the development of renewable energy production, the improvement of energy efficiency and the promotion of low-emission transport in Hungary. This appropriation is intended to cover, inter alia, the financing of sub-tasks relating to energy efficiency and sustainable development. In the year 2024, subsidies for environmental proposals for chapter management appropriations will be charged HUF 981.4 million. The reliability of water utility services fundamentally affects the quality of life of Hungarian people. In order to ensure the necessary renovation of the plumbing system, a ten-year reconstruction programme will begin with the development of some HUF 1000 billion. In the first year of comprehensive development, the draft budget provides HUF 50 billion in resources for this purpose. Opinion of the Economic Committee. In the budget of 2024 there is more funding for defence expenditure, thus strengthening the Defence Fund, with a budget of HUF 1310 billion in 2024. In a challenging economic environment, we also maintain family tax systems, family tax incentives, and next year we will also ensure that mothers under the age of 30, mothers with four or more children and young people under the age of 25 are free, we will continue to support the home creation of families, we will provide free textbooks for school children, children, children, children and other children. Our main objective remains to reduce inflation to one-digit figures by the end of the year, to maintain economic growth and full employment. The Hungarian economy is expected to grow by 4 percent in 2024 and we also maintain our goal of maintaining the country's financial stability and balance. In 2024 we are looking at a deficit target of 2.9 per cent and a reduction in government debt to 66.7 per cent. The Committee on Defence, the Committee on Welfare, the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Culture have informed us about compliance with the law, and I will not read it again. The opinion of the Committee on Agriculture follows. The Hungarian farmers' subsidies were also granted in 2024 in Hungary's budget. As a result of the national budget contribution increased to 80 per cent, it is intended to finance payments due in 2024 for projects by farmers and enterprises winning new calls for proposals under the rural development programme in 2021 and. 22. The goal of national economy and national security is that the Hungarian population is primarily looking for and buying domestic products. Domestic consumers trust better in products produced in Hungary, so they have a higher sense of food safety. At present, the food industry is still at a competitive disadvantage compared to other sectors of agriculture, so it is important to help it individually and in a dedicated way. The aim is to achieve a higher level of processing of the food produced. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to provide the food industry with resources, irrespective of size or activity, for the period from 2021 to.27. In conclusion, it can be pointed out that the agricultural sector is key to the economy, because if the weather does not impair our ability to produce, agriculture makes a significant contribution to the growth of the domestic total product. The domestic population's food supply will also be ensured in all circumstances in the following year. Opinion of the Committee on National Inclusion. While a few years ago it seemed unimaginable to have a war in Europe, it is now happening in our immediate neighbourhood and we have to face its consequences. In the current situation, the possibility of a prolonged war must be taken into account, and in this case, it is particularly important that all the results that we have achieved in recent years, including in the area of national policy, can be protected. Neither should strategic goals be given up in a crisis situation, and national reunification is such a strategic goal. The budget of 2024 fully serves this solution, and the resources involved in the cross-border Hungarians guarantee the process of unification in the coming years. Opinion of the National Security Committee. It is also apparent from the draft budget for 2024 that the government will give priority to the support of national security services, and the financing of the entire national security sector will continue to be ensured next year. Budget support for military and civilian services in 2024 creates a financial background for defending Hungary's national sovereignty despite increasing threats. [[15.10]] Opinion of the Committee on Enterprise Development. According to the agreement with pensioners, the Government of Hungary preserves the value of pensions in wartimes, ensures an inflation-following pension increase and guarantees the payment of the 13th month pension, which has already been fully rebuilt and increased. The government's aim is to avoid the economic downturn and to continue to grow again this year. The increase is expected to be 4 percent in 2024. Since 2010, the country has not only been economically stable but also financially stable, the budget is balanced and public debt is declining. The aim is to maintain the country's financial stability and to reduce both the fiscal deficit target and the public debt-to-GDP ratio. Overall, it can be concluded that the budget for 2024 submitted by the government is a set of measures to help stabilise the Hungarian economy, which is in line with the interests of the national economy. Opinion of the Committee on European Affairs. In terms of EU funds, about HUF 3060 billion will be available to Hungary in the following year, both through investment and structural funds in the budget, other EU programmes, the Instrument for Restoration and Resistance, as well as indirect agricultural subsidies outside the budget. The Hungarian contribution to the EU budget amounts to HUF 692 billion. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, On the basis of the summarised opinions expressed, I would ask this House to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2023-07-03-43	Thank you, Congressman Lajos Szűcs, notary. The minority opinion will now be presented within a 30-minute timeframe. I give the floor to Congressman Ander Balázs.
u2023-07-03-44	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of the opposition opinion of the Committee on Budgets, the bill does not comply with the legislation on the establishment and adoption of the budget. This paper was given the name "Budget" but also has nothing to do with a real budget. It is enough to look at the budget that we were entertained at this time last year, what plans were presented here a year ago: the reality is that Hungary has been in a technical recession for almost a year. Furthermore, they expected a 5.2 percent inflation, which was achieved only three times over, and we may no longer call this a statistical margin of error, but an absolute record score in the European Union. That is why the infringement nature of this bill arises. According to the relevant rules, the Fiscal Council can allow the budgetary proposal to continue only if it actually results in a reduction of public debt in proportion to GDP. However, it is only possible for the Fiscal Council to do so, and only if the bill actually reflects expenditure and revenue for 2024. However, the paper that lies before us does not contain realistic expenditure for the year 2024. These are also stated in the Budget Council, as they stated that there is a risk of some of the expected underachievements of consumption-related revenues in 2023, which undermines the base of these appropriations, with a view to achieving revenue in 2024. The Council considers that there is a serious risk that the actual appropriations of the budgetary bodies will also be significantly below the expected price increases in 2022 and 2024, taking into account energy compensation. Other operational appropriations of a number of institutions not managed by the government will be reduced by 10% compared to 2023, resulting in a very significant decline in real terms in these institutions. Without targeted measures to save and rationalise tasks, there is a risk that maintaining the functioning of budgetary bodies will require a high level of unplanned expenditure over the course of 2024. All these risks are considered by the Council to be operational and quality of service risks, which should also be prepared for the reduction of the budget. The risks involved may require redesign, which limits the budget's role as economic compass. It can be concluded that this proposal does not contain the actual measures, figures, resources and expenditure for which the budget is to be implemented in 2024, i.e. it is not real. This has been confirmed by the Budget Council in its opinion, and the Government has not denied that it carries significant risks. It can be said that the budget proposal has become so weak again that it would be better for the country to withdraw it. It is completely incapable of calming the market and seeing the supposed predictable economic policy of the pro-government part. You will certainly not see it as long as new special taxes and other tax increases are introduced by decree, at night, from one moment to the next, until the individual appropriations are changed a hundred times, so the final result has nothing to do with the budget version adopted by Parliament, or while the Minister for Economic Development talks about the fact that we do not need EU funds, we will also benefit from working capital. The reality is that the economic risk the Orbán government poses is increasingly expensive to finance. This expensive financing means that every Hungarian has to pay about HUF 150,000 a year more to finance the Hungarian government debt because of the Orbán risk. I repeat: every Hungarian receives an extra charge of approximately 150 thousand forints per year. Some of the ideas about the budget are also from our oldest compatriots. The minimum pension is 28 500 HUF. That doesn't change next year, so it's practically 14 years of concrete. In addition, this is not only a relatively small number of pensioners, but also an artificially low number of benefits that are linked to the minimum pension. This concerns hundreds of thousands of people, such as elderly people's benefits, child care support, care fees, public health care. Overall, there are no structural changes in the pension system. The social insensitivity of the Fidesz government shows that this system has been maintained throughout the past 12 years, and pensions have been raised only in proportion to inflation, while the Swiss indexation system would have been applicable for years, due to the relatively rapid growth, balanced global economic processes, low energy prices, i.e. the situation of pensioners could have been more favourable, beyond the fact that the increase in pensions has been less than the pace of economic growth for years, and the fact that scissors have been increasingly opened between wages and pensions, and this trend continues in 2024. The pension system will therefore continue to be unfair, careless, non-flexicurityable and unsustainable in the long term. In view of this, the following proposals have been made for a fair and sustainable pension system. The restoration of the constitutional guarantee for pensions, the guarantee of the value of pensions, the combination of inflation monitoring and adjustment to wages, the Swiss indexation, the quarterly regular pension adjustment adapted to inflation and wage change; the significant increase in minimum pensions, the introduction of the pension ceiling, the consideration of a realistic consumer basket with a pension increase, the differentiation of rates in pension increases, the possibility of flexible retirement; the gradual reduction of the disproportionateness between individual pensions in relation to gender and regions, the restoration of the previous system of early retirement rights and invalidity rights, self-care, for example, the creation and encouragement of a new possibility for private pension funds, and the introduction of the, yet untenable, programme, that 38 percent of men in Hungary today are not worth the retirement age. He simply has no time left to rest, to dedicate himself to his family after the long working years, and in general, if he reaches retirement, he can expect 11 years less in health than, say, his Swedish compatriot. [[15.20]] In the area of health, a multi-annual trend is also continuing, according to which the government's covert aim is to shift part of the population to private health. Public health expenditure remains below 6 per cent of GDP, which remains below the EU average of 7 per cent. The situation is also colored by the fact that 67-69 percent of healthcare expenditure in Hungary comes from state resources, which is 4 percentage points lower than in the European Union and 8 percentage points lower than the average in the other Visegrad countries. In essence, this means that what the State system does not cover, i.e. about one third of the costs, must be replaced from its own pocket. Among other things, the proposals concerning the budget in this regard would be these. The share of public health expenditure in terms of GDP should gradually be increased to the European average. Development of a complex public health programme, a list of related public services and tools; improvement of the efficiency of use; stopping migration, replacing the missing number of health care professionals, 9,000 new workers, 3000 specialists and 500 GPs. A recurring critical element on the part of the opposition in relation to the budget is its early submission. Following bad practice in previous years, the government submitted the 2024 budget once again too early, when very important macrodata is not yet available. Early submission was criticised not only by opposition representatives but also by the Budget Council and the President of the State Audit Office. The Minister of Finance's defence against criticism that they want to give economic operators more time to prepare cannot be accepted, as in recent years we have seen countless examples of the government making substantial changes to tax laws or expenditure items during the year. The 2022 budget has been amended 95 times. The Orbán government is certainly insisting on early submission of the budget because it is able to move further away from reality and outline a more favourable macro path, for example, see the 4 per cent growth and 6 per cent inflation prognosis, making it easier to get the budget accepted by the pro-government representatives and then making substantial changes in the period of implementation without a specific mandate, adapting to the less favourable economic situation than expected. Let's look at the expense page. On the expenditure side, almost all of these items were foreseen to be reduced or only modestly increased, which is much below inflation. The Orbán government announced the principle of general savings, with a 10-percent reduction in the public sector according to the lawnmower principle. This is a particularly harmful measure because it freezes the bad economic structure and causes malfunctions. It is precisely time for a substantial re-alignment of the expenditure side, a substantial increase in expenditure on education and health, as there have been significant cuts in both areas over the past 12 to 13 years. Education expenditure still reached 4.8 per cent of GDP in 2010, and today only 3.6 per cent of GDP and health expenditure fell from 4.5 per cent to 3.6 per cent in the same period. The draft budget law includes HUF 2479,8 billion of EU funding and 3605,5 billion of use against it. However, if the expected source does not come in but the spending is realised, it could in itself significantly increase the cash flow deficit and cover the planned deficit of 2.9 percent of public finances. Let's take a look at the revenue side. In previous years, the Orbán government has called itself the government of tax reductions and low taxes have been seen as a clear competitive advantage on the government side. Today we need to talk much more about the government of tax increases, and next year's budget plan also shows that economic operators will have to expect further tax increases, because the budget is suffering from chronic revenue shortages, so that even the few attractions and competitive advantages of the Hungarian economy have been eliminated. Let us also examine sources of economic growth. The experts and the Fiscal Council consider the planned growth rate of 4 percent for next year to be excessive. Because it is not visible how this great growth could be achieved. The availability of EU funds is extremely uncertain and cannot be built on this. The rise in investments by domestic companies cannot be expected at such high interest rates and constantly decreasing demand, and the government has no resources to re-inflate public investment. Another problem is that there is no domestic labour force available, the labour market is already very tight. Although there is an increase in productivity above 3 per cent in the budget plan, the last 12-13 years have allowed it to grow to around 1 per cent on average, allowing productivity of work. You can't see why she would grow three times as fast as she used to. Of course, we can trust that we will boost GDP with foreign capital and migrant workers, but this will not give rise to significant disposable income, because both foreign investors and foreign workers will take out the income generated here. Thus, while GDP may increase significantly on paper, the income that can be used is less. A few words about debt, too. With regard to the risk of debt and debt, it can be concluded that the draft budget law states that next year there will be a very high interest payment, more than 3 per cent of GDP, and this is only an optimistic estimate, according to the Fiscal Council, because the 4 per cent interest payment obligation is much more realistic. This means that even if there were to be a 4-percent economic growth, a large part of it would be consumed by interest payments. The high interest payment obligation means that the Hungarian State has become very indebted, despite the fact that the competent parties have shown a declining debt/GDP ratio and such an optimistic downward path has also been included in the budget plan. From 69.7 percent in 2023 to 66.7 percent in 2024. However, it is doubtful that this can be achieved, because the completion of the 2023 base is extremely uncertain. The Orbán government is also aware of the danger of severe debt debt and debt trapping. This is due to the fact that savings will be taxed and public savings will be directed towards public debt financing, and commercial banks will be encouraged to do so. Obviously, so as not to have to take out new loans on international markets. And that is also why the Minister of Finance decided not to include in the budget the reimbursement of the MNB's losses, as this would further increase the deficit and public debt. In addition, they can also exert pressure on the MNB to reduce the central bank base rate and not to fight inflation so strongly. After all, for the Orbán government, which has accumulated large debts, high inflation is a great service. 2024 will therefore be a budget for austerity, because without EU funds, the Orbán government will be forced to improve the strong deterioration of the balance situation. Of course, there will be attempts to boost growth, but unfortunately they will not succeed, but will only make the balance worse. In a good case, significant growth can only be expected in 2025. In light of all this, it can be said that the budget for 2024 is, in substance, proof that the Fidesz government has led the country to a dead end, accumulated debts and future survival, that is what we see. Economic, social and environmental crises occur at the same time, inflation, livelihood problems, disintegrating education and public health, social and care crises, which are unsolvable with so far's means. Unfortunately, the Fidesz government is pushing for the old bad recipes, as a result of which, during the 13 years of Fidesz, the country and the Hungarian economy have not become crisis-resistant, but one of the most vulnerable and vulnerable in Europe. They do not want to reduce dependence on multinational capital, even though they already cause thousands of billions of dollars of damage. Due to the excessive dependence on the automotive industry, the country now has to support battery production by about 1000 billion. [[15.30]] They are turning our country into an accumulator, and they want to subjugate a low-water and low-energy country to a water-intensive and energy-intensive industry. The failed Fidesz economic policy means not only the unlimited provision of multi-purpose capital through direct support and the transformation of the tax system that is favourable to them, but also the supply of our natural resources: water, land, air and energy to the profits of multinationals. Thirdly, it means cutting public services, from education to health, environmental protection, disaster management or OSH. In other words, the reduction of public services is not an anomaly, but an integral part of the plan, also serves the profits of the multinationals. More future-building investment would be needed: building-energetic deep renovation, energy system development, energy innovation research support, the development of district heating systems, water management and its complete reorganization are practically dependent on our lives. This also requires a radical transformation of the source page. Among other things, we would eliminate unnecessary and harmful expenditure such as all kinds of support for state propaganda or the support of multinationals. We would like to point out that, compared to two years ago, the debt service is jumping almost three times, from HUF 970 billion to HUF 2747 billion. This is a HUF 1777 billion surplus. Hundreds and thousands of billions of people are missing from education, health care. Sectors collapse because of the underfunding of many years. All of this, as has already been said, has not been a crisis-proof country, but has become the most vulnerable and vulnerable throughout Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, It would also be necessary to reduce the VAT on basic foods, because if we look at the livelihood crisis, the social disaster that kicked the door to Hungary, then, I think, this explains itself. It would therefore be necessary to reduce VAT, at least to reduce VAT on basic foods, where this has not yet happened, to meet the basic needs of life cannot be burdened with the same high taxes as any other consumption. This is a fundamental humane and social issue. The brutal increase in food prices over the last two years has made this even more urgent. An important item would be the elimination of the so-called investment promotion target. This is the frame from which the government supports battery companies. Namely, only 132 billion, but we know that you can raise this at any time, you spend a lot more than that to lure multinationals here, with domestic taxpayers' money: since 2016, some calculations indicate that 1050 billion was only the visible support of this sector. And another thing: not only do super-rich people largely avoid public burdens in Hungary, but in times of crisis, their rapid enrichment is particularly striking. There is a legitimate need to tax more than their assets. The wealthiest hundred Hungarians' combined assets in 2023 were 7655 billion forints, their assets increased by 1432 billion in one year. The wealth of the first three players in the list, Lőrinc Mészáros, Sándor Csányi and Zsolt Felcsuti, increased by HUF 495 billion in one year, in a year when the salaries and savings of the masses were devalued by inflation in Orbán. All these resources should be used to finance a kind of economic change. It would be more appropriate, say, to support small farms in agriculture. Smaller farms typically do not have any own resources, but in order to produce quality, clean, high added value products, they need improvements and loans. It is important that loans are not to be repaid for at least one year, or the State guarantee, because in the eyes of banks, a prehistoric producer is fundamentally not creditworthy. Then it would be necessary to ensure that 132 billion of this investment promotion target is not used to attract Asian multinationals, not to support them in excess of what they used to be, but to create a new method, which rather supports domestic micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, who would receive this kind of support in line with thoughtful, jointly created local economic development plans and strategies. A strategic goal at national level would be to increase the resilience of the economy. An economy is resistant if its basic functions maintain the production of products and services and the provision of workers' income in rapidly changing conditions, even in crisis situations. A system can do this if at least meeting basic needs does not depend on remote markets, producers and calculations. So localising the basic sectors should be a first priority. This calls for support for the strengthening of local economies, especially in sectors that meet the needs of water, food, energy, clothing, cleaning, clean environment. Ladies and gentlemen, We do not agree that the government makes the fulfilment of national strategic tasks such as adequate education, fair pedagogical wages, dependent on uncertain sources in Brussels, but does not fulfil the legitimate conditions for their payment. I myself, in other ways, have referred to the fact that in the Klebelsberg era, which you have referred to so many times about the pro-government side, 16 percent of GDP was given to the cult wallet, which was then called the new defence wallet. Half of this now, 8 percent would be an unrealistic objective, but to be able to move away from the situation that now characterizes the truly collapsing domestic education, it would be important to increase teachers' wages from domestic sources, not from Brussels; just as after Trianon, not in Paris, has asked for funds for the recovery of domestic education, let us say, Klebelsberg Kunó, because without it, the country's competitiveness is in jeopardy. Since these elements are not included in the draft budget law before us, I can tell you that from the opposition side, the support will not be clearly received either by my pro-government colleagues or by the honourable government. As rapporteur for the minority opinion of the Committee on Budgets, I have sought to gather the elements which may be of consensus from the opposition, in which we all agree, on which we can all say that without them we cannot plan a responsible future in Hungary. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for his attention, and we are also looking forward to the answers on this. Thank you.
u2023-07-03-45	Thank you very much, Congressman Ander Balázs. Dear Parliament, I must ask the author, Mr Peter Banai, whether he wishes to speak now or at the end. [[Péter Banai Benő: In the end.]] In the closet. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The address of the minority representative is now in a five-minute time frame, so I will give the floor to Mr Ritter Imre, who will present the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language and then translate them into Hungarian. You have the floor, Congressman. [[15.40]]
u2023-07-03-46	Thank you. Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, as a German national minority Member, to comment on all public education institutions' nationalities in the T/4181 of 2024. on the draft central budget law and its summarised amendment. Following the provision of the parliamentary participation of indigenous nationalities in Hungary in 2014, we have been able to achieve very significant increases in support over the last 8 years. In 2022, ethnic support was nearly HUF 24 billion. Unfortunately, the Covid crisis in 2020-2021 and then the tragic war situation in 2022, the energy crisis, the ever more severe inflation, have broken this positive progress in nationality and has intensified several negative processes that I have already predicted in the negotiations on the draft budget law in 2023. We knew that we would have significant additional costs in several areas. Nevertheless, in understanding the problems to be solved before our country, we have accepted our role in this, that, as in 2021, there will be no increase in national minority support in the fiscal law, and even a significant reduction will be made. Compared to 2022, the central fiscal law of 2023 had already reduced HUF 1 billion for 13 nationalities to HUF 63 million; this decrease has already increased to HUF 2 billion by amending the budget law of 2023 to HUF 352 million at the beginning of this year. I would like to stress that all 13 nationalities have accepted this in a uniform and agreed manner. However, the proposed budget law of 2024 ahead of us already included a reduction of HUF 3 billion and HUF 840 million compared to 2022. This planned reduction would have been a 5% reduction in Roma ethnicity subsidies and a 25% reduction in minority support for other nationalities. It makes the situation even more serious that this drastic withdrawal would have attracted almost all the additional funding from national minority institutions, leaving only 261 million, which is just one tenth of the HUF 3 billion grant in 2022. I think that these two numbers alone indicate that it is a disproportionately unjustified withdrawal, which could make impossible 102 ethnic public education institutions maintained and owned by national authorities. Every year, from the start of institutional takeovers, we have sought to have an additional institutional framework for operational and stockpiling each year, from which every year, based on the assessment of specific needs, we have sought to resolve the difficulties that have arisen for a given year, which, in recent years, has worked well in peace times. Now, however, within a year, the entire supplementary compensation framework would have been withdrawn, which would fundamentally jeopardise the functioning of the receiving national minority public education institutions. For this reason, the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities initiated an amendment in the budget of 2024 to restore total withdrawal of HUF 1 billion and HUF 568.9 million. Our amendment received no support, and instead, an increase of HUF 600 million in national budget support was set in the summary amendment tabled by the Committee on Budgets. Of course, we are also happy with 600 million forints, for us it is also a lot of money, but this certainly does not solve the problems of our ethnic public education institutions for the year 2024. For this reason, I will vote in favour, with the assumption and hope for a cumulative amendment of the draft budget law of 2024 and the amended bill, that further substantive government measures will be taken not only in 2024 but already in 2023 to solve the actual financing problems of our ethnic public education institutions. Thank you for your attention. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit! [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties and the MSZP.]]
u2023-07-03-47	Thank you very much, Congressman Ritter Imre. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Congressman László Varju, a representative of DK.
u2023-07-03-48	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Well, we have come to an important moment, the time before the vote, when the last step could or could have been taken with the opportunity to have a normal budget for a country plunged into recession in a falling spiral, but the Hungarian economy does not get this opportunity. Instead, we see family budgets collapsing, a livelihood crisis affecting the country, the debt of the budget, and here we can even take an annual look back significantly increased not only in terms of proportions, but also in nominal terms, and further increase this debt. Retail consumption is clearly falling, people can only buy less and much cheaper products. It is evident that the country is becoming poorer as a result of your economic policy; it was all a lie that you said earlier, and we have now come to this situation. That is why I would like to point out in the prerogative that the Democratic Coalition faction has tried to give you the opportunity to improve at least the most elementary parts of an alternative budget, which means that we should take a few steps for the benefit of the people, or take a few steps, but they were not ready and they were not able to do so, so that we remain to implement this initiative. Why does that matter? After all, at a time when we talk about the fact that this debate in itself, which is currently taking place, how self-righteous the debate process, which has been built up here as a paragon, is about a moment, the moment when the Secretary of State is trying to give us an opinion on the current situation and to discuss a future budget, I think that it would therefore have been very justified to think about it in the longer term and to talk about an alternative budget. It has also appeared among minority opinions, often mentioned by you, that otherwise they do not change the budget very much. Compared to this, 96 night decrees have been issued in a self-righteous manner and on account of the emergency, and the budget will be amended by regulation when virtually any time, wherever they can regroup, or do so, is, in essence, completely regardless of what they have previously planned or have been told to people about it. This is why, when we are discussing this at present, it is far from meeting the expectations that, in essence, a given political year, the most important argument of a given parliamentary period, why budget planning is the most important. In the meantime, there's a source. So their problem is not that there is no source: they count on payments from general traffic taxes to more than HUF 7500 billion; they think and calculate over HUF 4400 billion in personal income tax payments, so it seems from this point of view that the problem is not the lack of resources, but your value world or choice has changed, and the consequence is that today, for example, it is no longer important for you to be able to make substantial savings and reductions for Hungarian families; instead, it is more important to spend on something else. They have done nothing to reduce the country's energy supply, and therefore, vulnerability will remain in this respect. [[15.50]] If I assume that you have entered into bad energy contracts, then unfortunately, this will result in a very, very, very expensive governance that you are doing. One of the very visible signs of this and it must be said at this stage of the debate, but I might as well ask, if you prefer, Mr Secretary of State, that is to say, the spectacular sign of your operation and of this recessiond economy is the extremely high interest rate that has appeared at the banks. As a result, huge obligations are created, and this causes a loss of HUF 2000 billion at the Hungarian National Bank. At the beginning of the debate, the Minister for Finance promised that he would propose a solution to this, but we do not see any evidence of what will then be done and how they intend to deal with it. I understand that you have brought the previous law, you have also changed it, and that you can change the current one at any time in this regard, but I would like to point out once again that you have put a huge debt on the neck of future generations for the next period, and that you will make others pay this debt. According to the inability of the Orbán government, the bill on the central budget, as we have already mentioned to you, appears in order at this time, and the consequence of this is the uncertainty that I could just say that you do not know or account for last year, but you can happily vote for such a paragon budget in such a time of crisis that you have tried to cover up everything you have done so far. This is why it is of great importance that, today, not only the factions, but also the Fiscal Council itself, have pointed out that you have a great debt and created a great debt at the time when the interest rates and the Hungarian National Bank contributed to this situation. Of course, we could talk about their actions and decisions against the pension system or the local governments, which appear in this fiscal form, because the local government sector, which is closest to people's everyday life, where it could be helped in the most important areas of people's everyday life, is virtually impossible by you. In essence, people are being taken away directly from the source when they say that they are raising the support for local governments in a significant part, and then with their other hands, they are reclaiming it at the same time, with a false solidarity, which, you know, has nothing to do with the original, especially if they only support the chosen ones. I have not yet spoken about education and health, but one of the spectacular consequences of your lies is that, while I can say from general traffic tax revenue that last year's budget revenue has also become much higher, this year's budget revenue is still not spent on the most important elements affecting people. That is why this budget is unacceptable on our part. Thank you very much.
u2023-07-03-49	Thank you very much, Congressman László Varju. The next speaker is Ms Zita Gurmai, representative of the MSZP.
u2023-07-03-50	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! Well, let's start with education, after, unfortunately, I still don't understand why this budget needs to be discussed now, because it's going to be modified a lot. From now on, all due respect and thanks to my colleagues, who have prepared this with tremendous work. So I'd like you to deliver this message, Mr. Secretary. So let's look at the education. In 2024 Fidesz does not want to solve the systemic problems of education, does it not want to know about the ever-enhancing shortage of educators and miserable infrastructure conditions; it does not want to know what underfunded universities left in the hands of the state lead to, even though the university teachers' wages are not competitive with those who charge goods at discount stores. This is unacceptable to the Hungarian Socialist Party. The MSZP has also initiated a new fiscal policy, the restructuring of the expenditure side, for the sake of a safe livelihood for people. Unfortunately, they didn't support it, but I'm still hoping. Now, we left-wingers believe that Hungary has a future, that there is a future, if the state budget ensures that all children and young people can acquire modern knowledge, and the state will give them a chance to do so. Unfortunately, every century of high school students today want to study in Austria, so it is worth considering in any way when we think about the future of our children. The MSZP proposes that we start raising public expenditure to the EU average in the security budget. Our aim is to spend at least 6-6.5% of the upper third of the EU Member States on education. The amending proposal that we have tabled aims to increase the wages of teachers and other public education workers by around 40% by 2024, the real framework for public education, the budgetary support of vocational training centres, and the wages and operating framework of teachers of universities that remain in the state reserve. The overall programme of around 540 billion does not increase the budget deficit, the money is still available today, but Fidesz does not use it where it is needed, not to serve future generations. The necessary resources are available from the cutting down of the excessive public media support, the elimination of the MNB foundations, but it is worth considering the introduction of the oligarch tax, the suppression of government propaganda, the cancellation of hundreds of billions spent on unnecessary investments such as the Budapest-Belgrád railway line; so there is no obstacle to the permanent availability of the increased educational funding without increasing the deficit. A little bit about the state's involvement: a drastic reduction in public engagement. In 2010, welfare expenditure was still 31.1 per cent of GDP, and in 2024 it was only 23.2 per cent. It is written that family support will have more than three and a half times more than in 2010 if we see that benefits under subject-law will remain unchanged and even appropriations will be reduced. Neither the children, nor the children, nor the maternity allowance, nor the family allowance, nor the children in need, have been growing, nor for the next year, for 15 years. But it is interesting that next year 3 billion HUF less expenditure is planned for the family discount, with an increase of 10.3 per cent. According to the explanatory memorandum, support for families is an important part of the home creation programme, which will continue to support families with children and children in the future, and to help them to create their own homes and renovate them. This is a surprising statement because the resources for housing support by more than 50 percent I repeat once again: 50 percent! This year's reduction is from HUF 383 billion to HUF 182 billion, and there was no support for renovation this year. Most social support has been for many years, which has remained unchanged for 17 years. In a crisis, the social network needs to be strengthened, which is why the MSZP has come up with a very clear proposal: with the mixed indexation of pensions, an 8.15 percent pension increase could be made and benefits could be increased to a greater extent. We do not consider the amounts of the fair pension fund satisfactory, so we recommend doubling them, so that the pension is set at HUF 600 million on a fair basis, HUF 1800 million on a equity-based pension increase and HUF 1200 million on a one-off grant. [[16.00]] We are initiating an increase of at least eight times the 100 million envelope for exceptional disability benefits. We consider the increase in the care fee to be inconvenient, the basic amount of which today is hardly more than HUF 45,000. The MSZP has long proposed what stakeholders would like to see the amount of the care fee reach the minimum wage. For years, the MSZP has been proposing to increase child support on the subject. Maternity allowance for the birth of a child should be doubled so that the first half of it can be given to the parent in the sixth month of pregnancy. We would also double the framework for the prevention of child support charges in the interests of children and in view of the changes in legislation that came into force last year. We would increase the amount of educational care for children in foster care by one and a half times. Nearly 6,000 foster parents provide more than 16,000 children. Support for the care of children finally increased last year, for the first time since 2013, but next year, the amount remains unchanged again. In the current economic situation, this amount is not sufficient due to record inflation for almost a year. The baby bond was introduced by the Socialist Government from 2016, so almost all those under 18 now receive this support. This is one that we would definitely consider important. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the opposition parties.]]
u2023-07-03-51	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai. The next speaker is Congressman Bence Tordai, representative of the Dialogue.
u2023-07-03-52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Either the law of big numbers doesn't work, or Fidesz really just watches where a particular budget changer comes from, not what its content is. The Dialogue-Greens and other opposition groups have submitted hundreds of budget amendments and, by miracle, they have all been voted off in committee, so they have not disappointed us: they continue the politically, professionally and morally indefensible practice that they have shown in recent years' budgetary debates. The Dialogue-Greens, as a minority opinion of the Economic Committee, gave a very detailed and thorough description of the problem with the Fidesz draft budget and the direction in which we should move so as not to talk about living the future and not about a austerity budget. We have already explained this in detail in the Commission debate with Professor Tamás Mellar, my fellow Member. Our arguments didn't affect the fidesz majority there. But here I would repeat that if the budget of 2024 was not about living the future, but about investing in the future, then it would certainly be important to spend much more on just green transitions, education, health care, social security, investment in life security, and much less on the harmful spending of Fidesz's Moonyard and now more and more of the spending of investors in the Far East, to which Fidesz would like to applaud the added public money paid by Hungarian taxpayers. So, if you want to be good for the country, if you want to be good for Hungary, if you support the green future, if you support the fair green transition, then you have nothing to do but support the package that will be proposed by the Dialogue-Greens in the forthcoming vote, which, on the one hand, with a budget amendment called a more than 1500 billion, a just green transition fund, and on the other hand, with the additional support of the large social sub-schemes, will have more than 3000 billion forints, which will, of course, guarantee in these amendments that Hungary will not be a short-term country, which will continue to wage war against its children, as it now emerges from the Fidesz draft budget, but a future-oriented, future-proof, sustainable society building country that will still have a chance in the next decades. If you don't have that much responsibility, then your souls are on it. On the part of the Dialogue-Greens, we did what we could, and we gave them the chance to catch up on the thinking that you might already have in 2023. Thank you for your attention.
u2023-07-03-53	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask that someone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application, so the debate is closed. The rapporteur, Mr Péter Banai, indicated that he wished to respond to what was said in the debate. You have a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2023-07-03-54	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to sum up what has been said in recent weeks because of the prolonged Russian-Ukrainian war, the most important task is to identify the preservation of Hungary's peace, economic and physical security. I will, of course, also respond to the comments made today, but I would like to recall, as a closing point in the budget, that the basic objective of the draft budget law for next year is to continue to maintain the regime for the protection of the economy and families, to maintain the family support system, to provide financial support for child rearing, to maintain the purchasing power of pensions, to guarantee the payment of the 13th month pension, to protect the full employment already achieved and to support further job creation, to support investment, innovation and territorially balanced growth, and to provide the resources necessary for the country's physical security. It is worth mentioning the economic policy situation and assessing it from a broader time horizon before detailing the proposals submitted by its representatives and Commission for amending next year's budget. In recent years, the Hungarian economy has faced many challenges, and it has been a great advantage that we have not wasted the years 2010. Between 2014 and 2019 the Hungarian economy increased by 4.1 percent per year, while the average growth in the Union was 2.1 percent. Public finances were in balance, and public debt declined steadily and continuously from 80 per cent to 65 per cent from 2011. Hungary has responded successfully to the economic challenges of the coronal virus epidemic: in 2020 the volume of Hungarian GDP decreased by less than the EU average, and in 2021 our country reached a record increase of 7.2 percent. This momentum was broken by the war and the energy crisis, which resulted in the peak last summer. Despite all these difficulties, Hungary has recorded a 4.6 percent economic expansion in the last year, so the catch-up to the EU average of development continued. It is also important to stress that Hungary has achieved strong GDP growth over the last two years, despite the fact that Hungary has not yet received significant EU funds, thus having a competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis other Member States. This year, in particular, despite the economic slowdown that can be attributed to sanctioned inflation, we have managed to protect the results achieved earlier. The situation in the labour market remains positive. According to the latest figures in June, the employment rate remained below 74.5 per cent and the unemployment rate below 4 per cent. In the first half of this year, we are still counting on the modest performance of the economy, but from the second half of the year, consumption can also start to recover with a noticeable reduction in inflation and a rise in real income. External factors can also improve, world market prices for raw materials and energy may remain more moderate than at very high levels earlier, and world trade shows signs of recovery. In total, the performance of the Hungarian economy can remain in a positive range again this year, and next year we consider that 4 percent economic growth can be achieved. Mr Ander Balázs questioned this 4-percent increase by presenting the minority opinion of the Committee on Budgets. I consider it important to take into account the fact that this high employment rate can be one of the pillars of economic growth, since as inflation decreases, household consumption can increase. In addition, we should not forget that the investment rate in Hungary was extremely high under Covid, and we can see more than 27 and even 28 percent. [[16.10]] Since the beginning of 2020, the total value of the reported investments in substantially foreign operating capital has been more than 14 per cent. Thus, in addition to high employment, household consumption and the consumption of families, investment can draw on next year's economic performance. As far as productivity is concerned, this high investment rate is one of the explanations for productivity growth. I think that this indicator should not be compared to the early 2010s, where the expansion of employment was one of the pillars of growth. However, we can see that workers have flown into the labour market significantly from areas whose productivity has been lower, in simple terms, those who were previously unemployed, who have entered the labour market in large numbers, and I therefore do not think that it is appropriate to compare the productivity indicators of previous years with the productivity improvement that we have seen in the past and that we are counting on in 2024. With all these economic performances, the government is committed to reducing inflation to one digit by the end of this year. In 2024 the rate of increase in prices could be 6 percent, so real wages could rise strongly again in this way and the consumption of families could increase, thus supporting the expansion of the Hungarian economy. In parallel with the growth of the economy, we will continue to improve the balance indicators of public finances. The deficit can again reach levels below 3 per cent this year from 3.9 per cent of GDP to below 3 per cent next year, while the government debt will fall below 70 per cent by the end of 2023 and reach below 67 per cent by the end of 2024. Indeed, in the next year's budget, we expect that the amounts spent on debt services may increase in proportion to GDP, but I stress that this is not a Hungarian speciality. Allow me to say that compared to the levels two years ago, the yield of ten-year US sovereign debt increased from 1.5 per cent to 3.7 per cent, or the Polish indicator, which increased from 1.7 per cent to 5.9 per cent. The cost of financing public debt is therefore essentially linked to higher inflation seen globally. Of course, Hungary is no exception. For this reason, it is important that when the draft budget law of 2024 is final, the honourable Parliament only supports proposals that preserve disciplined farming. We expect that the amounts allocated to the debt service can decrease in proportion to GDP from 2025, thanks on the one hand to declining inflation and, on the other hand, to the disciplined management that may show a declining deficit and debt path in the coming years. Dear House, Next year's budget is a defence budget. As has been said, we plan 1340 billion forints for the protection of electricity. The budget includes a total of HUF 6540 billion for the preservation of the real value of pensions and pensions, the 13th month pension and the pension premium. We are still counting on the preservation of one million new jobs since 2010 and one of Europe's most extensive family support systems. If one considers it important to preserve the results so far, in times of difficulty, so to speak, to have a strong social net, then I think it is appropriate to support the economic policy that provides people with work instead of aid. We can actually say that during the crisis during Covid, and then the outbreak of the Russian-Ukrainian war, we have maintained this high level of employment with high inflation as a result of sanctions. I think it is a fundamental goal to preserve this result next year. As far as the family support system is concerned, it has also been said today that there are elements in this family support scheme that do not change the nominal amount. However, I would also like to draw the attention of honourable Members to the fact that, for example, support for post-baby credit or support for home-building loans is being allocated by the government in addition to a higher inflation environment. So there are some family support elements that do not change nominally, and there are elements where next year's budget will cost much more than in 2023. We can spend HUF 1796 billion on defence, which is more than 2 percent of GDP. In the shadow of the war, we not only increase defence spending by HUF 400 billion compared to this year, but also health expenses by HUF 424 billion, as well as educational expenses by nearly HUF 630 billion. I stress that support for these sectors is increasing not only nominally but also in real terms. The budget calculates each euro cent for Hungary, and these resources can also contribute to the financing of the planned public expenditure. Support for local governments was also mentioned today and in the previous debate. In fact, I would like to tell you that next year's draft budget contains HUF 80 billion more local government support, and we expect that, thanks to increased economic performance, local governments can increase their business tax revenues by HUF 190 billion. In this context, the amount of the solidarity contribution will be HUF 70 billion in surplus in the municipal chapter of the budget next year. Thus, the more wealthy municipalities can pay part of their surplus tax revenue to finance the tasks of the poorer municipalities and regroup them. Dear Parliament, In the context of the discussion of next year's amending proposal for a budget motion, it is important to point out that government-supported amendments do not jeopardise the intended deficit target or the reduction of public debt. The opposition amendments tabled to the budget have been reviewed one by one, in line with these considerations. Overall, the opposition amendment proposals would divert the budget from the original course by more than HUF 6,000 billion. In total, tax increases would amount to more than HUF 3000 billion in additional burden for Hungarian families and businesses. These include, for example, an increase in corporate tax and a reduction in corporate tax relief, which together would increase the burden on businesses by nearly HUF 2400 billion. The budget security reserve would be reduced by a total of HUF 1700 billion, which would spend the HUF 220 billion reserve eight times. A few examples. Some of the opponents have ignored the existing public finances rules, since the amount of reserve determined according to legal regulations is spent several times. Due to multiple over-spending, their adoption would result in a fiscal imbalance. He tried to introduce new taxes, raise taxes. The amendments proposed a reduction in investments to encourage job creation, while not taking into account contractual obligations. I must say that these amendments represent an over-spend not only at the level of the opposition as a whole, but also at the level of factions in most cases. For example, Congressman Bence Tordai highlighted the proposal of the Dialogue faction. The faction had a proposal that would transfer 69 billion forints out of a HUF 39.5 billion allocation. This would be difficult to implement mathematically, or, if implemented, would result in an increase in such deficit and debt levels. Allow me to highlight a few specific points on the proposed amendments. When reviewing and evaluating the proposed amendments, it was a key aspect of the budget that the amendments at the parliamentary stage should overall be null and void. This will ensure that the Council's opinion on the reduction of public debt remains valid. For this reason, expenditure increases should be compensated either by reducing expenditure on other lines or by increasing revenue. However, most of the amendments were made without a source designation as such. These would increase the budget deficit, which would jeopardise this debt reduction and thus increase the economic vulnerability of our country. With regard to budgetary security reserves, the appropriation of extraordinary government measures is intended to finance the tasks resulting from government decisions taken during the year under the Public Finance Act and to replace budgetary revenue that is planned but cannot be avoided. The current HUF 220 billion is 0.5 percent of the total expenditure, so a reduction is not recommended. I note here that in today's debate several people mentioned an interim amending of the budget. It was said that the government had amended the budget by regulation 95 times. I must disprove these allegations. The government takes the budget adopted by Parliament seriously, the statements made in today's debate relate to the redeployment of the budget by the resolution, i.e. not to amend the budget, but to the implementation of the budget, typically from the reserve forecast that opposition representatives would now take up, to the financing of these additional tasks during the year, being transferred by the government by decision. The proposed amendments, as I mentioned, also included areas where the transfer of funds for priority investments would take place so that if Parliament accepted them, our international and domestic legal obligations would not be able to fulfil existing contracts. [[16.20]] Among the opposition proposals for the introduction of new taxes and for tax increases, I would like to highlight the proposal to increase the general rate of corporation tax. According to tax theory literature, the biggest economic distortion is due to taxes on long-term high corporate profits by curbing investments. We therefore do not support the double-keying of taxation, as it would greatly undermine the competitiveness of our country. Dear Parliament, In view of what has been said, the representatives of the pro-government factions and the government did not support individual motions by opposition representatives. On the other hand, the government-supported proposals contained in the summary amendment encourage economic growth while ensuring the necessary protection of public health and defence, and do not jeopardise the intended deficit target or the reduction of public debt or the fulfilment of obligations arising from legislation and contracts. The government-supported expenditure-enhancing amendments will be covered mainly by the reduction in prices on the natural gas market over the past period, based on the assessment of the central budget bodies and the savings resulting from the actual expenditure so far, by reducing the expenditure appropriations of the central budget bodies within the Trust Fund and by enforcing the contribution to general saving measures. The question of the loss compensation of the Hungarian National Bank has also been raised in the course of today's debate. In this case, the government has conducted several consultations with the central bank, resulting in a joint decision. Thus, the government, in agreement with the Hungarian National Bank, initiates the amendment of the Central Bank Act, in the first place towards the European Central Bank. The proposal may then be submitted to Parliament in the light of the ECB's opinion. The amendment of the Central Bank Act is initiated by the Government with three points of principle. The first point is that the basic functioning of central banks and their statutory tasks are not affected by the amount of equity. In Europe, we still see examples of central banks whose own capital is negative and their specific tasks, such as achieving the inflation target, are not affected. The fact and the extent of profit or loss alone does not justify whether or not it fulfils the basic tasks of the relevant central bank, since it is not the realization of profits, but the control of inflation, and the suppression of inflation. The second important point is that there are different loss compensation rules in the countries of the European Union, among which the Hungarian rule is one of the very strict ones. For example, in the Czech Republic and Slovakia, the central bank's own capital is still negative, but there is no obligation to pay back. The third point is the general European situation, according to which many countries' central banks have suffered a substantial loss in recent years, and the same is expected in the coming years. We are talking about years when, after the coronal virus pandemic, Member States are under considerable pressure to reduce public deficits and debt, while central banks are losing. This is not a Hungarian specialty, but a European phenomenon. Last year, the European Central Bank itself closed with losses, but we also saw losses in the Netherlands, Belgium, Germany or Poland. As regards the direction of the amendment to the central bank's law, it is important to point out that, like other countries, the loss in a given year must be primarily financed against the other elements of equity, in the second place it is appropriate to compare the loss in that year with the expected profit in the medium term, and in several countries the latter is the practice. Thus, the loss of that year is not reimbursed by the Member States' budgets, but can be offset against the expected profits in the medium term. If these options are exhausted, the actual implementation of the loss compensation, the government's capital increase, in the manner and timing of which several solutions are also possible. To sum up, therefore, a positive European Central Bank opinion and then, in the event of a parliamentary decision, an amendment to the Central Bank Act may be made, in which no loss compensation is required in 2024 or even in the coming years. Therefore, the proposal before you did not contain a new item of expenditure to compensate for the loss of the central bank. Dear House, To sum up, the draft budget law of 2024 and the amendments supported by the government reflect the fact that the government's value-based policy has remained unchanged since 2010, i.e. it supports the preservation of jobs and the creation of new ones. High employment, the preservation of 1 million new jobs compared to 2010 and the promotion of new jobs remain a priority. Therefore, employment-related employers' and employees' tax levels remain low and wages may increase overall above planned inflation. Particular attention will continue to be paid to the strengthening of families, the appreciation of older people and the promotion of child rearing. Through the family support system, we can spend more than HUF 3300 billion, 4 percent of GDP on supporting families. Dear Parliament, In view of this, I would like to ask you to support the summarised amendment and to adopt the draft budget law for 2024 at a later stage. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-07-03-55	Thank you very much for the final thoughts of State Secretary Péter Banai. Dear Parliament, I'll take a break for 16 hours 30 minutes, then we'll continue our work with decisions. (Sunning: 16.26 16.34 President: István Jakab Note: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Szűcs)
u2023-07-03-56	Dear Parliament, I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. Please take your seats and check that your card has been placed in the ballot counting machine. Dear Parliament, Following is the T/4181. on Hungary's central budget for 2024. Decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to bill No 1. T4181/469. T/4181/470. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the Mi Hazánk Group is Nos 110, 316 and 7; the MSZP Group is Nos 432, 433 and 434; the Dialogue Group is group Nos 374 and 376; the DK Group is group Nos 16, 17 and 18; the Momentum Group is group Nos 402, 414 and 442; the LMP Group is group Nos 303, 351 and 381; the Jobbik Group has proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 218, 28 and 88. We decide on these by group of representatives according to the order given by the faction leaders. Amendment 110 is proposed by Mr President Novak. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 4 votes in favour, 161 votes against and 1 abstention. Amendment 316 is proposed by Mr Dócs. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 15 votes in favour, 143 votes against and 7 abstentions. Amendment 7 is proposed by Mr Szabadi István. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 36 votes in favour, 130 votes against and 1 abstention. Amendment 432 tabled by Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 47 votes in favour, 122 votes against and 6 abstentions. Amendment 433 tabled by Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 50 votes in favour, 121 votes against and two abstentions. Amendment 434 tabled by Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 39 votes in favour, 123 votes against and 10 abstentions. [[16.40]] Amendment 374 is proposed by Timea Szabó and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 39 votes in favour, 128 votes against and 6 abstentions. Amendment 376 proposed by Timea Szabó and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 40 votes in favour, 125 votes against and nine abstentions. Amendment 16 is proposed by Ferenc Gyurcsány and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 36 votes in favour, 133 votes against and 5 abstentions. Amendment 17 is proposed by Ferenc Gyurcsány and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 39 votes in favour, 122 votes against and 13 abstentions. Amendment 18 is proposed by Ferenc Gyurcsány and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 40 votes in favour, 120 votes against and 14 abstentions. Amendment 402 tabled by Mr Szabó Szabolcs. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 51 votes in favour, 121 votes against and two abstentions. Amendment 414, tabled by Mr Miklós Hajnal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 51 votes in favour, 121 votes against and two abstentions. Amendment 442 tabled by Mr Endre Tóth. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 51 votes in favour, 120 votes against and two abstentions. Amendment 303 is proposed by Bernadett Bakos and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 51 votes in favour, 121 votes against and two abstentions. Amendment No 351 tabled by Mr Csárdi. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 52 votes in favour, 121 votes against and 1 abstention. Amendment No 381 proposed by Lóránt Keresztes and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 51 votes in favour, 121 votes against and two abstentions. Amendment 218 is proposed by Mr Zoltán Sas. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 50 votes in favour, 121 votes against and two abstentions. Amendment 28 is proposed by György Lukács and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 33 votes in favour, 121 votes against and 5 abstentions. Amendment 88 is proposed by Members of the Council of Ander Balázs and Brenner Koloman. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 51 votes in favour, 120 votes against and two abstentions. Dear Parliament, As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Committee on Budgets accepts T/4181/469. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 123 votes in favour, 51 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, CXCIV of 2011 on Hungary's economic stability. Act T4181/471, and the Rules of Procedure of the House of Decisions, the President of the National Assembly submitted by the national Parliament. It shall send the proposal for a single budget law to the President of the Budgetary Council. The Council shall inform the Speaker of Parliament within three days of the 25th Stability Act. § 3 of the Opinion. The final vote will take place on our Friday meeting. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions. At the earliest, we will continue our work at the hour of immediate questioning from 17 a.m. I'm taking a 17-hour break. (Sunning: 16.48 17.01. President: István Jakab Note: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Szűcs)
u2023-07-03-57	My fellow Members, please take your seats, we will continue our work. Thank you for your understanding. Dear Parliament, Gergely Arató and Olga Kálmán, representatives of DK, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Why? It's an address. Congresswoman Kálmán Olga has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-07-03-58	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, I suspect you're not too proud of being named after an independent economics concept. [[Bence Rétvári: In DK?]] Orbán inflation is now joined together... [[Noise, there's a leak from the pro-government benches.]] If it wasn't so pathetic, maybe we could laugh about it. Orbán inflation is now intertwined with your and your government's clumsy economic policy [[Bence Rétvári: Fletó!]] which has managed to produce three times the average inflation in the European Union and even two and a half times the average inflation in Romania. We are at the point that, according to the KSH report, Hungarians' real demand has been decreasing steadily for the seventh month. Due to inflation in Orbán, an average Hungarian family spends 130 thousand HUF a month more. Of course, we will now hear from you the usual mantra, that behind the thousand-forint sour cream and bread on the shelves of the shops, Brussels, George Soros, Zelensky, the sanctions, the war and, of course, the president of my party are hiding, but this argument makes as much sense as the leafless canopy. Not only in all European countries, but even in the Ukraine that is at war, there is less inflation than in us. Orbán inflation was able to double the price of most basic food and increase the overhead by seven times. This has not happened anywhere else in Europe, i.e. the price of the Orbán system. This is inflation in Orbán. This is your historic legacy. [[Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi: Low on rolling dollars!]] While prices have succeeded in pushing Hungary to the top of Europe, in wages and pensions, it has managed to push Hungary among the continent's hosts. In the EU, Bulgaria is the only one ahead. Then came your past 13-year-old spree, and here we are. So I ask Prime Minister: do you finally acknowledge that your governance is responsible for inflation in Orbán? Thank you. [[Let's hear it for the DK benches.]]
u2023-07-03-59	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2023-07-03-60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We could settle for the answer that, of course, inflation does not affect the opposition, because they count in dollars. [[Defiance and applause on the pro-government side. Novák Előd pointed to DK representatives: They! We didn't! Kálmán Olga intervenes.]] But it's still a serious matter, so let's talk about it seriously. The government has a decision and a commitment: inflation will be one-digit in Hungary by the end of the year. [[Kálmán Olga: Aha!]] We are taking measures to break inflation one by one. Just now, a day or two ago, we introduced the price monitoring system, and from 1 August, we are raising the now 10% mandatory action to 15 percent, and basic food must also be included in the action. This means that prices will decrease, help people and encourage competition. There are some results: inflation is on a declining path. But, no doubt, this is a process, and I expect further results from the August measures. [[Kálmán Olga: Do you admit it?]] We will not stop in the autumn, we will take further measures, and although the war and sanctions are indeed, as you said, working against us, but we will do our commitment in counterwind, inflation will be one-digit by the end of the year. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-07-03-61	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató in return. There you go. You'll have the floor in a minute.
u2023-07-03-62	The Prime Minister's reply shows that they still have no idea how to deal with inflation in Orbán, because they refer to the sanctions that you voted for and action plans from which we have seen ten in the last year, but all of them have only led to the fact that Europe's record inflation remained in Hungary. Of course, I understand that this does not bother Prime Minister, because he has raised his salary two and a half times, Papa received a dividend of HUF 2 billion, his son-in-law received a dividend of HUF 2 billion, his daughter is buying half of Tokaj, and according to the press, the family fortune is already a hundred billion, which is not included in the wealth in the name of Lőrinc Mészáros and the castle of 60 Puszta. It's easy that way. This is your policy: 1 percent, the richest 1 percent today is one third of Hungary's wealth. This will be changed by the government of the Social Democratic Government, Klára Dobrev [[There's a lot of noise in the pro-government benches. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] which will increase wages and pensions, not prices. [[Let's hear it for the DK benches. There's a lot of noise, interference from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-07-03-63	Thank you. Dear Parliament, My fellow Members, please remain calm. I'm giving Prime Minister the opportunity to rejoinder. You have the floor, Prime Minister. Here you go.
u2023-07-03-64	Thank you very much. The Obvious Lies [[Kálmán Olga: Which one is it?]] I'm not wasting my time here. I just want to say that you were an ex-government member, a secretary of state in a government. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: So?]] What you're going to do, we know exactly what you've done. That's why we won't let you do it again. [[Bence Tordai and Olga Kamán intervene.]] You've raised VAT. We had to bring the basic food tax down from 18 percent to 5 percent, because you raised VAT. They took a month's pension, took a month's salary. People know exactly what happens to them when there's a left-wing government: their pensions and salaries are gone. Therefore, we will not allow you to do what you have already done to Hungary once again. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-07-03-65	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Dávid Bedő, Ferenc Gelencsér, Szabolcs Szabó and Kristóf Márton Tompos, representatives of Momentum [[Dr. Gergely Gulyás: Much better!]] "They want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Please answer me, Prime Minister. It's an address. Congressman Márton Tompos has the floor.
u2023-07-03-66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister [[Bence Rétvári: Oops!]] I would like to draw your attention to a difference in thinking [[Bence Rétvári: Is that what it is?]] which may also shed more light on why in 2003 more than 80 percent of Hungarians voted for Europe, making a step towards the Soviet and Russian... [[Németh Szilárd István: 2004! Dr. István Vitányi: 2004!]] The accession, but 2003 was the referendum... making a step towards leaving the Russian and Soviet past. The reason for this is very simple: European brains are market mindset [[Bence Rétvári: Good job!]] Russian mentality is not on a market basis [[Uproar and applause on the pro-government side. Bence Rétvári: You're smart, Doctor Blunt!]] It's government, political thinking. We know that, he's no stranger to us, we can understand that. [[Bence Rétvári: You see the complexity of the world!]] State political reasoning says that state influence is decisive in economic life, and therefore it must be state property in strategic sectors. Thus, actors in the strategic sectors are not independent of the State, but those owned by the State, i.e. those placed in the strongest dependence. [[17.10]] Transparency in this sense does not represent the same value as market intelligence, and indeed. Finally, it is not the acceptance of competition, but the pursuit of monopolistic situations in public policy thinking that is natural and that it acts accordingly. Prime Minister, I'm sure [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] that you are aware of this, and you agree. My question is why, in light of this, you are taking the country in this direction. Why are they centralizing? Why do they do everything they can to prevent transparency? And why are you taking the country in the Russian direction? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-07-03-67	Dear Parliament, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán will answer the question. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2023-07-03-68	I have to admit, I'm not in an easy position. [[Delight and applause in the pro-government benches.]] Maybe first, let me start with a little encouragement. We may, indeed, be older, but we pay attention to young people, so it is important to us what you think. However, I feel a little too much that while, let's say, some of us have lived here for 26 years in a world called the Soviet type, you now explain to us what it was like. [[Deterioration in the benches of the ruling parties.]] However, I would just like to say to you that, indeed, Hungary was in a position in 2010 thanks to your allies that the vast majority of the energy sector, about 80 percent of the media sector and the large majority of the banking sector were also in foreign hands. And indeed, in 2010, we won the election with the programme of national ownership in strategic sectors. Now I don't have time for your mistake to confuse the state and the national, but I just want to point out that it has to be not state-owned, but national-owned. Therefore, Hungary today has large Hungarian national ownership in the banking sector, the media sector and the energy sector. And that's okay. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-07-03-69	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. In return, I'll give the floor to the congressman in a minute. Here you go.
u2023-07-03-70	Mr. Prime Minister, I'm moderately surprised. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] After all, a man whose happiness, well-being and wealth you have done a great deal in the last decades, and who has done a great deal for the well-being and wealth of his entire family in the last decades; a man who in the eighties and nineties created a fantastic image of himself, and many people still love him for it. These sentences were said by a certain Viktor Orbán in 2007. You said that. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: What?]] And now he's here, and he denies those words. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: What did you deny? Convinced?]] In the same way that you have denied that Ukraine and Georgia should be included in NATO, and that there has been enough poverty. Prime Minister, I believe that you will not answer me, answer one thing: where is that man? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] To whom these people believed, millions. Where's that Viktor Orbán from 2007? Where is this man? [[Bence Rétvári: A year ago 3 million people! Three million voters a year! How many people voted? Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-07-03-71	Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2023-07-03-72	Thank you very much. You didn't make it easy for me. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] All I want to say to you is that there really is a difference in thinking, and that is that we, who are here, but I think there are even some on the other side, perhaps not even few who think what we Hungary are first. As far as Western transparency is concerned, I suggest that you study the issue of Pfizer vaccines thoroughly. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-07-03-73	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question with the title "The Issues of the Current." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-07-03-74	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Prime Minister! Indeed, it is a topical and important question, in my opinion and in the opinion of many, because last week it was discovered that, although the Minister of Martin the Great had only leaked 74 public properties, recreational, further training centers and resorts. They expect some HUF 32.7 billion, which, by the way, is obviously ridiculous compared to the state's budget. What state ministries want to do with their resorts is your business, so to speak, although I do not think it is good to sell them, but here, Prime Minister, we are talking about the properties of the police, the NAV, the prison, disaster protection, the defence and the National Rescue Service that have existed for decades or longer. A training center, a recreation center, a cultural institution that is not just a resort. I'll give you an example: Igal and Piliszentkereszt. Prime Minister, I don't know, you know, over the last few years, with the help of prisoners under your government, the prison execution has renovated it to European standards at its own expense, so that the staff can find a place to rest that amazing job. The reconstruction of the resort in Lelle, the police, was carried out in the same way as in detention. And if you're interested in your role in the life of the police, please ask your home minister. Defence, Stefania Palace, which is a cultural part of that institution. While the Minister of Defence is working to move the Ministry to the Castle for billions of forints, they also want to sell the cultural center of the staff to the officer's staff. Prime Minister, we were at an event together on Saturday. That was the cleanup. You said you'd appreciate it and thank you. And you were standing there when those young people were shouting that they would protect this country by endangering their lives and their physical integrity. Prime Minister, if you can no longer give them competitive salaries, I ask you to make sure that these properties are removed from the list to be sold, and at least that is what remains of this stock, whose members protect us every day. Thank you so much for listening.
u2023-07-03-75	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2023-07-03-76	Thank you very much. There is a clear situation here in different ways we think about this -: only one or two of the state resorts should be kept, especially in the case of the army, which has historical significance, we believe no more. And people have to be paid, including government employees, enough to be able to take a vacation. We do not want to maintain any state holiday system, government resort, ministry or any state corporate resort. It is right that the state does not deal with this, but, as you said, it gives its employees enough money to take a vacation. These are two different concepts. It used to be as you say, let's say, when I was young, and now it's gonna be different. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-07-03-77	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. In return, I'll give the floor to the congressman in a minute. Here you go.
u2023-07-03-78	Thank you very much. It won't be easy for me, because it's very difficult to convince a stubborn Prime Minister in a minute. [[Viktor Orbán: That is true.]] But, Prime Minister, this isn't a resort. Please understand the difference. His logic is understandable and closed, but he only approaches it fundamentally in the wrong direction. Policemen, firefighters, Bv-s, paramedics are soldiers day and night, and according to their new decree, they can be used day and night without further question, always at Christmas, always at work at New Year's, taking care of us in 14-28 service. This isn't a resort, Prime Minister. Each sane country maintains the infrastructure for such armed law enforcement personnel to be able to return to the streets to serve us. It's not foamy, it's because, Prime Minister, they can serve us healthy and normal. Not to mention cultural institutions and not to mention further training centers, which is really only for the development of the stock. At least think about it again, Prime Minister. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-07-03-79	Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2023-07-03-80	It could be as you say, as it is. It is true that this year we raised the salary of policemen and soldiers by HUF 116 thousand, and next year we will increase it by the same amount, so that they can take a vacation, so that they can relax, that there will be recreation; we will appreciate them. If you compare the current salary and supplies of the armed men with what was in your time, then the difference is obvious. I think it's the right thing to do. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-07-03-81	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Ander Balázs, Brenner Koloman, László György Lukács and Dániel Z. Kárpát [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Five to ask a question!]] The representatives of Jobbik want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What do you think of this, Prime Minister?" It's an address. Mr László György Lukács has the floor.
u2023-07-03-82	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. Prime Minister, It is rarely so interesting to see something so interesting that the government that prints it on posters that if you come to Hungary, you cannot take the work of Hungarians! And later, a few years later, he begins to import workers. Because the thing is, your economic minister calls it economic migration. That's the new concept we need to get to know. Now we have also learned that there really is good migration. In the past, you considered the establishment bonds holders to be good migrants, and now the economic migrants are here too. [[17.20]] But the recipe is clear, let's see what you do: you want to bring half a million aliens into our country, it's two and a half times bigger than the population of Debrecen. If this happens, we can say that every twentieth Hungarian person in Hungary, who is staying in Hungary, will be an Asian worker. But this is not only a plan, but there is already where it works: in recent days there has been news that there are not only foreign workers in the Lenovo factory in Anvil, but they are sending out Hungarian workers, mostly taking on Filipino workers; the same is also the case in Flextronics in Zalaegerszeg. The situation is so much more serious that, as part of their battery state project, for example, they want to install 5,000 Chinese people on Mikepércs, which is less than 3,000 people. So you can clearly see what you have to say and plan: Chinese chemicals in Hungarian soil. That's very good work from Prime Minister, who has already changed systems twice. But the fact is, and we are even more saddened to see that there is strong suspicion that companies that are now organising these imports of labour and their owners, their beneficiaries, are actually using state aid, and there is strong suspicion that this state aid is actually used to bring the migrant workers to the expense of Hungarian workers and to exchange it. Mr. Prime Minister, Only Lenovo has received 2 billion forints from you recently, and 3 billion from Flextronics. The question is that the Prime Minister can state that these companies are not using state aid to send out Hungarian workers and instead employ migrant workers. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] It is not, Prime Minister, that the government not only supports the import of labour in principles but also in money, is it not? [[It's a rare applause from the opposition side.]]
u2023-07-03-83	Thank you; speaking time is two minutes. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2023-07-03-84	I thought that at the last meeting, this House adopted the law on migrant workers. So the nonsense you've just told me there, and I'm rejecting it, it's no longer meaningless. So far, you could speak as you spoke, and perhaps even justified, because the various legal categories were mixed up. That's why Germany got where it got, and France where it got. But, as I understand it, at the last meeting, the Hungarian Parliament was beginning to do so and formed clear legal categories and created the law on migrant workers. And in the law on migrant workers, we answer very clearly the questions that you have said. First of all, this is the strictest rule in Europe. The second is that only as many migrant workers can enter Hungary as there are vacant posts, and this number will be reviewed annually. The third is that whoever brings in the guest worker has to take responsibility for it. Anyone who wants to employ a migrant worker is clearly described in the law: he must declare that he has tried, but he has not found a Hungarian workforce. In addition, the migrant worker can only come for two years, after two years he will cease to be here and must leave the country, and this can be extended in one case. And if you commit any violation of law, you must leave the country. We have passed this law because we see every now and then that there are vacant posts, 80-90 thousand vacant jobs in Hungary, and we do not want to be in a position like the Westerners to argue in favour of migration that they need labour. Therefore, we have clearly separated asylum, migration and migrant workers' law. It's a strict, clear and simple rule. Everyone's got to keep it, and we're gonna keep it. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-07-03-85	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I'll give you the floor in a minute, if you'll excuse me.
u2023-07-03-86	Thank you very much. Well, clearly, your idea is different than what we think. We in the Jobbik-Conservatives think [[Defiance, interruptions from the pro-government side.]] That it should be a priority government task for Hungarians to receive decent wages; on the other hand, you are based on imports of labour. We believe that decent wages are necessary because a normal Hungary needs to be created, where wage differences within the country need to be eliminated. We see the difference between the county of Békés and the western part of the country, and we have also launched a campaign to prevent not only this, but also the difference between Europe and the surrounding countries. Mr. Prime Minister, You can live a normal life after a decent wage, then you can compete with inflation. You must not and should not base yourself on crowding out Hungarian workers, breaking down wages, thus making less money for the Hungarians, but on getting a decent wage. Mr. Prime Minister, Our concept is a concept of a normal Hungary, your concept is the concept of an immigrant country. [[Rumble and clear on the pro-government side. Bence Rétvári: You didn't mean that either!]]
u2023-07-03-87	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2023-07-03-88	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Member, I remind you, if you have mentioned the wages, that when your allies governed this country in 2009, and let's say an employer raised HUF 10,000 on wages, the employee received HUF 2800 out of it. Today, if an employer raises HUF 10 000 today, the employee will receive HUF 6400. Now, that's the difference between you and us. But here's the thing, and I'm a big fan of honest talk, but right now, I gotta tell you, I'm gonna say it hard. You stand up here, you speak against an immigrant country, and your president is your president! vote in the European Parliament for the migrant package, as a result of which they want to install migrants in Hungary with a binding force. That's for your president to vote. [[Intercoms from the pro-government side: That's right! That's right! Intervention from the opposition side: No, it's not true! It's an uproar.]] Your President voted in favour of the proposal in Parliament to build migrant workers for Hungary with binding force. [[Kálmán Olga: Jesus! And Judith the Earth would say, "Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, ……]] That's what I'm fighting. I have to fight you because you betrayed Hungary and want to make a migrant ghetto out of Hungary with your president. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: You're lying! You're lying!]] And we're not gonna let that happen. [[A long applause on the pro-government side. Dr. Brenner Koloman: Long live Rakosi!]]
u2023-07-03-89	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, President Novak, representative of Mi Hazank, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: why does the government not support the proposals for a solution to the Hungarian Movement? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-07-03-90	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, Unfortunately, in addition to the release of thousands of smugglers, the government also supports legal immigration, so the resettlement of migrant workers coming to us mainly from Asia. But with illegal migrants, there's only half a solution. The border fence proposed by László Toroczkai as Mayor of Asotthalom as early as 2015 was built, but the breakthrough migrants are only being escorted back to the starting line, one or two thousand a week to try again. We're not even going through their clothing, their bags, and they've got drugs, guns, money. So far, we have spent some 700 billion forints on southern border protection against illegal migrants. [[Viktor Orbán: That's right.]] And the government hopes that the EU will pay for it someday. It is particularly painful for me to say this, but the Hungarian border is not protected by the Hungarians or by the police, nor by the fence, but by the low wages. The aim of the migrant import law voted on last month is to further reduce the real value of Hungarian wages by Asian migrant workers. But that's not how it's supposed to be done. Prime Minister, why has the government swept down the proposal of the Hungarian Movement to impose a multimillion-forint on-site fine on those crossing the fence? After all, migrants often have thousands of euros in their pockets, which are largely distributed to smugglers. By confiscating them, however, migrants would soon be discouraged from trying in Hungary, so that we could save hundreds of billions of people in border protection with deterrent sanctions and reduce continent conquerors more effectively. Of course, in many cases, I think that the liberal international rights defender is more of an accomplice and then screams that Hungary is robbing migrants, but at least they will avoid us by far. Why should we pay for the repairs to the serially damaged border fence? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And why doesn't the government support our proposal to seize cell phones from border crossings as a sign of crime? It would also facilitate the detection of smugglers, and it could also be taken away. [[The president's ringing again.]] the desire of the migrants to try it on us. I ask with respect for your answer. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-07-03-91	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2023-07-03-92	Thank you. Congressman, you've touched a very difficult case. There are countries in Europe that do what you say: they confiscate phones, valuables, jewelry I can say in this country. The truth is, we're going through the migrant situation regularly, and we're going to see what you're saying: they're rough, they're violent, they're trying to get in. We can't put them all in jail, that's why we're escorting them back, because then we should support them. [[17 .30]] And after our prisons are full of smugglers, there are too few square feet for one person. [[Kálmán Olga: And you will set them free!]] That is why we have too few square meters per person according to European standards, so we are regularly fined. So it's not enough to capture migrants and smugglers, lock them up, support them, and then the Union fines us, because there's not enough room in prisons. The construction of a prison is HUF 50-60 billion, and we are doing it, but the number of smugglers and migrants is increasing faster than we can build prisons as quickly as we can. So the whole situation is absurd. It is therefore reasonable to suggest that we should not be more harsh. And the truth is, this is a problem for us, because there are a lot of reasons why we should. But the truth is, we haven't been led on by the soul yet, that's the case. The truth is, these people who come over are often rather miserable people and people who are in a difficult situation, and, frankly, I don't have a personal problem with migrants, we have a problem with migration. So we don't see them as enemies. We simply want them not to come here, and if they come here, we'll take them back and don't come again. We don't want to hurt them, we don't want to rob them, we don't want to beat them, we want to take away their I don't know what. Some countries do that, we don't do that. And I hope that the situation doesn't deteriorate to the point where we have to put our heads on such steps. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-07-03-93	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I'll give you the floor in a minute. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-07-03-94	Prime Minister! Don't shake your hand, Hungary belongs to the Hungarians. In Hungarian history, most police proceedings were initiated in one day, not in the 1950s, not in 2006, but in the 15th of March 2021, at the anti-closure, anti-Covid dictatorship demonstration of our country. At that time, a number of our flags and banners were confiscated, with a fine of millions. Why couldn't they do the same with the mobile phones of migrants crossing the southern border fence, for example, impounding it as a sign of crime? Why does the government not support the proposals for a solution to the Hungarian Movement to save hundreds of billions in border protection with deterrent sanctions, such as on-site fines? Nor do they attempt to justify illegal migrants, no matter how much of a wanted criminal, evicted smuggler may try, but we will only taxi them back to the other side of the border fence. No wonder the Slovak Speaker said a few months ago that the Hungarian-Slovak border should have been closed, because there migrants roam around like mice. Well, that's how much border protection works with the Hungarian border fence. Therefore, I would like to ask you to reconsider our proposals. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-07-03-95	Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. You have the floor, Prime Minister.
u2023-07-03-96	I suggest calmness and logical reasoning in these matters. If we do what you say, someone who's been arrested for illegal border crossing, and we want to fine him or take what he has, we need to prosecute him, it's a rule of law. [[Moraj in the ranks of opposition parties.]] Court proceedings must be initiated. The authorities can then be attacked in court, and the lawyers will attack you. Until then, you will be here in Hungary. If we don't want them to stay here, we need to take them back to the other side of the fence without any procedure. Otherwise, we will be filled with migrants whose affairs are being dealt with by the various authorities. So I think the good thing for us is that the sooner we get rid of them, we don't hurt them, we send them back, and we tell them not to come back. [[Dr. István Apáti: But they're coming!]] Yeah, but imagine how many people would come if we didn't defend the border. So the claim that defense shows weakness is that they're still coming doesn't logically hold up. The effectiveness of defence is shown by the fact that we are debating this issue here and that we have something to discuss. If, by the way, they just went through us the way they did when there was no fence... border fence is good, we need it, border hunters are partly set up on Jobbik's proposal, our defense is effective, no doubt not a hundred percent [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] But it's effective. I would ask you to acknowledge the work of those who work there rather than underestimate the value of the work they do. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-07-03-97	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Rebecca Szabó and Bence Tordai, representatives of the Dialogue [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] "You want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Please clarify this, Prime Minister." It's an address. Congresswoman Rebecca Szabó has the floor.
u2023-07-03-98	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Prime Minister, [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] An increasing number of Hungarians are watching with terror and outrage, as you start to crowd the country with toxic, water-sucking and huge electric battery factories and faulty battery processing plants. Moreover, in spite of what you claim to be the opposite, the authorities you have weakened cannot protect our environment or our health from these dangerous plants. For example, workers in the battery factory in Ivanča were sick, and serious threats to carcinogens were made on several occasions in the area of Bátony. The authorities are only punishing me for small amounts of money, and the irregularities go on. On top of that, it has been leaked that you, Prime Minister, are secretly planning to install the rail transhipment site of dangerous chemicals for the European battery production in Budapest. So they want to set up a Chinese poison depot in Soroksár, not far from the gardened married zone, in line with the Chinese's interests, in 2 million unit containers per year. According to press reports, the contract was planned to be signed in September. Luckily, the mayor's recommendation [[Voices from the ranks of the governing parties, among them: Oh! Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] The Metropolitan Assembly unanimously decided, with the agreement of the Fidesz mayors, to replace the centre of chemicals with a forest in Soroksár. However, since I can imagine that you will not include your own mayors in your plans, especially Antal Rogán, in your plans, I would like to ask the Prime Minister that you support the establishment of a distribution centre for Chinese chemicals in Budapest, or, if you do not support it, you can give your word, seeing people's protests that they will not bring you in September or at any time, conclude such contracts, bring no chemical distribution centre to Soroksár or any other part of Budapest. I'm waiting for your answer. [[A rare applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2023-07-03-99	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2023-07-03-100	Thank you very much. The idea is frivolous, and such a chemical distribution plant will not be built, so you can sleep in peace. As far as battery production is concerned, I have to repeat to you that there are environmental standards in Hungary. Every industrial installation, whether it is a chemical or a battery plant, is subject to the strictest environmental assessment. We have the strictest regulations, at least as strict, but perhaps even slightly stronger than Germany. And if a technology suits Germany and even fights with us to win these investments there is a competition; we compete with French, Italian, Spanish and Germans for the possibility of building a battery factory, if these factories are suitable for the Germans, they will also be suitable for us Hungarians. Mr. Timmermans is your comrade. It's his program. You brought the whole battery industry to Europe by using electric cars to replace conventional cars. I must also inform you that electric cars require batteries, and that Comrade Timmermans represents nothing in Europe but the construction of as many of these factories as possible. The question is only where it is built: France, Italy, Germany or Hungary. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that I said that there are hundreds of thousands of people in Hungary who work in car factories and earn their family's bread there. If the new technology is not introduced, the following developments will not be implemented in Hungary. The Hungarian car manufacturing plants will be closed in Győr, Kecskemét and everywhere else. We can protect these production lines and plants, if we prepare for the era of the electric car the necessary tools, batteries and parts are manufactured here, then there will be a job. If we did what you said, hundreds of thousands of Hungarians would lose their jobs. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-07-03-101	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. In return, I'll give the floor to the congresswoman in a minute. Here you go.
u2023-07-03-102	Thank you. Prime Minister! Thank you for telling me that there will be no chemical distribution centre in Budapest, Soroksár, or anywhere else, and that these news is false. This is very important. We'll hold you to that in case it doesn't work out. But what you said about making cars, I'm sorry, but that's not true. This is like scaring the Hungarian people with a bogeyman. It is quite obvious that we do not need to produce all the batteries in Hungary in all the existing cars, and it is also quite obvious that we will not have to break down and destroy all the batteries in Hungary afterwards. [[17.40]] With regard to the plant in Báton terenye, your government office, your environmental authority, described that the infringement had already been committed for the fourth time by this plant in the Far East and that the fines imposed were not dissuasive. Therefore, I hope that the Dialogue has tabled a proposal and will support the suspension of the operation of those plants which break the rules, the stricter environmental protection procedure and the increase of these environmental fines, because despite what you say, Prime Minister, the Hungarian regulations are not strict at all, they are not capable of protecting people from carcinogens, for example. I expect you to do something about that. [[Applause from the opposition.]]
u2023-07-03-103	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2023-07-03-104	We strive to meet your expectations, so the strictest environmental rules exist in Hungary, and we will force them out. Unfortunately, we will not be the first in the battery factory competition, I see, because we are very busy, but I see that we will not be able to prevent the Germans, so our industry forecast that the largest electric car manufacturer and, together with this, battery manufacturer will be Germany in Europe around 2030. We're competing for second place with the Poles, the French and the Swedes. We have to win this race. If we can't get these factories here, these factories will go there. And you may fall into the trap of living in your own bubble. Because, of course, everyone can have an opinion on the battery, but I'm sure that the Győr worker who is listening to us now understands precisely that if we don't do the battery companies, then he doesn't have a job in five years. The Kecskemét man who earns his living from working in a Mercedes factory today knows precisely that if we don't build what's necessary, he will lose his job, and even if they want to produce BMW in Debrecen, if there isn't a battery factory next to him, they won't develop the factory, but they will shut it down after a while, and the man in Debrecen will lose his job. Don't believe your own propaganda. We need jobs, we need to move forward with modern technology, in compliance with the strictest environmental standards. [[Dr. László György Lukács: We need to import labour! A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-07-03-105	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Máté Kanász-Nagy, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: what is happening here? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-07-03-106	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister, I think it is worth continuing on this subject, because you have a minister, Péter Szijjártó, who works as a virtually battery scout and scouting minister: he flies to China every two weeks and brings us back another battery plant investment. Well, Péter Szijjártó and your government operate as a reverse conquistador, who does not colonize his own country, but colonizes Hungary. Because by bringing in so many battery factories, they clearly make Hungary a battery ring. The problem is the extent of this, the quality of this, and the problem is that Hungary is seen as a place where the labour force and natural resources and treasures can be exploited and exploited to the extreme. Now, Prime Minister, in his previous reply, you may have refuted the fact that you do not want to build poison holes on Hungary, of course, the Chinese wanted it here and managed to resist such a Chinese lobby at the time. But just now, he had a very interesting speech when he talked about the workers in Győr, the workers at the car factory in Győr, who would lose their jobs without a battery company. So now Prime Minister has said something, and there will be a battery factory in Győr? And by the way, that's exactly what my question is: where else are you planning on implementing a battery plant? Where do they plan to invest like this? How many of these investments are there right now, because it's really hard to follow, and how many investments are there? Where do they stop, how long does this process go on, all the way to the very end of everyone's garden or to some kind of battery factory or poison station next to his house? [[Depreciation, interruptions.]] Please answer that question, thank you very much.
u2023-07-03-107	Prime Minister Viktor Orbán will answer the question. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2023-07-03-108	Dear fellow Member, There may be more battery companies than LMP party members, I can't tell you that. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] But the thing is, Minister Szijjártó is available. In Hungary, there is a single-channel foreign investment management system. And the strategy of the Hungarian economy, since there are so many of us that we produce for export. If we can't produce for export, the standard of living we live in today would fall back about half. So what we're talking about is that we're going to be able to get involved in the world economy by making, providing here, and thus becoming part of a larger production chain. And the question is, at what level is this successful: at a lower level or at a higher level? We work to provide jobs for all kinds of people in Hungary, for the two-handed worker, for the engineer, for the company manager and for the researchers. Therefore, we are trying to bring all kinds of investments and service centres to Hungary. I think it's right, that's good, that's why in Hungary, as opposed to the time of your allies, when unemployment was 12 percent, there is no way to find a Hungarian worker's hand today. It's a good policy, that's what people do for a living. What you are talking about is a confused apologies for judging it, it is confusing, foggy, incomprehensible, intransparable, and all Hungarian people will have a bleak jaw if they try to make such onionous plans, some kind of green change without technology. Green change and green transition also mean technology change in the automotive industry. If we stay out of it, we will stay out of the world's mechanical engineering, even though we have invested 30 years in our professionals, managers, engineers and researchers in this area. We do not want to give up 30 years of work by Hungarian people for some troubled, green, foggy ideas who do not support technology change. Moreover, they do not support the technology change that you represent most loudly when you are not in Hungary, but in Brussels. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-07-03-109	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2023-07-03-110	We know very well, don't we, that the inhabitants of the settlements concerned do not know about these investments, because out of the blue, they are informed of it as a lightning strike, they take advantage of the various laws, and as a priority investment, they can build anything anywhere. They don't ask people about it. I was just asking where such factories are built and where they are planned in the future. Mr. Prime Minister, It has now come to light that not only do the inhabitants of the affected settlements not know it, but neither do you, Prime Minister. You do not know this either, because the fact is that, as if they were given these instructions from China, they tell China where these projects should be set up. So not only do the Hungarian people not know about these investments and do not know where they will be in the future, but you do not seem to know either. I think it shows this country's vulnerability, dependence, this untenable state. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition.]]
u2023-07-03-111	Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2023-07-03-112	I would like to draw your attention to the difference between a Chinese beach slipper and a battery factory. Because we certainly do not know how many beach slippers are sold here in one of the districts of Budapest by Chinese merchants. But we can't invest in Hungary without state permits. Calm down, Congressman. And my fellow Member, Mr Szijjártó, is at your disposal to tell you where, what negotiations we are conducting; therefore, he is the Minister. But back to the essence of the debate, you're a green couple, aren't you? Right? So your biggest, most successful comrades are the German greens, right? Now I would like to inform you that when the Chinese factory against which you protest, because you are building a battery factory in Debrecen, the same Chinese factory opened its first European factory in Tiringa, because it does not build the first one here, but in Germany, your comrade, the German Green Minister, has gone. He said that without battery production, e-mobility cannot be successful, that sustainability and conservation of resources are only possible. [[Kálmán Olga: Meg without impact assessment.]] I suggest a settlement. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-07-03-113	I thank you, Prime Minister, for your answers. Dear Parliament, Gabriella Selmeczi, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. Where is Hungary in the fight against pedophilia? It's an address. Due to the absence of Minister Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister of State, was entitled to reply. I ask the congresswoman, she accepts the person who is responding, or she asks for the answer personally from the Minister.
u2023-07-03-114	Thank you very much. Of course I'll take it.
u2023-07-03-115	You have the floor, Congresswoman. [[17.50]]
u2023-07-03-116	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, There's been a report of a terrible crime in the press last week. [[Bence Tordai: The Fidesz Vice Mayor?]] There is a suspicion of an extremely terrible crime, the threads of which lead entirely to the activists of the Sykra Movement linked to a Member of Parliament, Andrew the Pious. [[Interviews from the Fidesz benches: Where is it?]] I don't know where he is, he should be here. Based on the information so far, 70,000 fellow Members, 70,000 paedophiles were found on a laptop in a search for a house in February after the Antifa attacks. There are hundreds of recordings of children under 12 years of age, child abuse of children between two and three and four years of age. To understand what this is all about, the penal code calls this act an act of abuse: children aged two or three or four, beating, beating, sexually abusing. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Shame!]] It's a shocking and outrageous case. Since 2010, the Fidesz-KDNP fraction has, in many cases, made its voice heard and separated from it in almost all cases of pedophile offences or child abuse; we sat down, looked at the laws and regulations that can be tightened up and amended. We've always done this. I highlight the Fidesz-KDNP because, for example, we have not heard any separation from opposition representatives. Dear Secretary of State, My question is, how is the work going now on the arrest and prevention of pedophile crimes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-07-03-117	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2023-07-03-118	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, When András Jámbor entered the National Assembly, this was very welcomed by the Spark Movement. They said that, following the joint work of recent years and based on decades of left-wing activity, we believe that András Jámbor will faithfully represent what we are fighting for. And what do we see here in the case of András Jámbor? First, he made a bed for street violence, Antifa, said it was an enthusiastic left-wing movement fighting social inequalities. Then, when everyone was outraged by the fact that Antifa members came here from abroad in broad daylight, at random, and beat them with vipers and iron pipes, he then came into Parliament and literally said about the lady in whose apartment this laptop was found, which is his partner's laptop, that we, the government representatives here, should at least apologize to this person; he was so brave that he came here against your filthiness. And András Jámbor called on us to apologize to a member of the movement that had used street violence in public in Hungary in an unprecedented manner, and then the man who then committed suicide was the key witness in this case, and he confirmed his alibi to this lady that she was with her, and that she was not on the street when these crimes and violent crimes were committed. And, yes, I don't know exactly how you choose your members, and how you can stay a member, but if you don't have one plus not five, but nearly 70 thousand 70,000 on someone's computer! such a file is found, and these are all persons under 18 years of age, and there are hundreds of people who are really kindergarten age [[Dr. István Apáti: Sick bastard!]] It is about the abuse of two-year-old children, and this movement [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] He's proud to carry his flag, and they're questioning us in Parliament, and they're demanding that we apologize, that's outrageous! [[The president's ringing again.]] No wonder Andrew Jámbor is hiding, and he is not in the Chamber now. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-07-03-119	Thank you. I'll give the congresswoman the floor in return, please. One minute.
u2023-07-03-120	Dear Secretary of State, Our question is, among other things, where is András Jámbor now, member of the presidency of the Szikra Movement [[Noise.]] The movement involved in this pedophile crime tsunami. But let me also ask you where is Szabó Timea, who is the leader of András Jámbor's faction here in Parliament. [[Intercom from the Fidesz benches, CIA agent!]] Yes, there are various yellings, so we know that Szabó Timea works for someone else, not only for Hungary, but where is Szabó Timea now, who has repeatedly heard his voice in the case of a pedophile crime, but not in all of them, for example in this. [[Intercoms in the benches of Fidesz.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz-KDNP fraction makes every effort to detect pedophile crimes as early and as previously as possible, and we ask and await the apologies of the opposition's affected members, but minimum... [[Crying from the opposition benches.]] Fidesz-KDNP condemned the Kaleta case [[Moore in the opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] And he said... Why are you opposition representatives not speaking now? Ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, Let me speak to the congresswoman here. They could stand up and convict this crime and the Spark Movement! [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Cries from the benches of Fidesz, among them: That's right!]]
u2023-07-03-121	Dear Parliament, The Deputy Minister shall be rejoined. Here you go.
u2023-07-03-122	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, There is a legitimate question as to why the left who kneeled before the genderlobby refuses to make clear and clearly condemn street violence and such pedophile crimes in this case. In recent years, we have done a great deal to curb these crimes. Our criminal code is Europe's strictest criminal code on pedophile crimes. We have tightened the statute of limitations; we have tightened up the fact that, from the age of 21, only the calculation of limitation periods will start, in order to press charges in this case in adulthood. We've banned everyone from dealing with children, jobs, if they've committed such a crime before. We have created the pedophile register, of which nearly 10,000 queries have been made, as anyone, any citizen, through the client gate, who suspects someone near his child, may ask whether he was convicted of such a crime or not. Because indeed, it is an important help for many Hungarians. Our child is the most important thing in our lives, and we don't want anyone to abuse the child's vulnerability, naivety, trust, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and use this kind of abuse in relation to children. This is why the Hungarian left should clearly once again say that he condemns violence and condemns such pedophile crimes. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] He said of András Jámbor the Spark Movement that a swallow doesn't make a summer, but a spark can light a fire in the night, that it will light a fire here in Parliament in our darkness.
u2023-07-03-123	Thank you, Deputy Minister. [[Intercom from the opposition benches: You have two minutes!]]
u2023-07-03-124	Well, unfortunately, there was only a fire when a baby was set on fire because of this suicide. [[The president's ringing again.]]
u2023-07-03-125	Thank you very much.
u2023-07-03-126	I think it would be good if the Hungarian left finally stood bravely on this issue. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-07-03-127	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, István Hollik, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question:, Could Gergely Christmas have been involved in a money laundering scandal? It's an address. Because of Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. Miklós Panyi was entitled to reply. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-07-03-128	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, On the recommendation of Mr. Máté Kocsis, the latest report by the Secret Service has been published, quite rightly. Here's what we've learned from this. The 99 Movement to support Gergely Christmas earned 506 million forints, by paying most of it in euro and pound in cash to the movement's account by his party partner Gábor Perjés. Gergely Christmas felt that she should explain that. Now, the Grimm brothers won't take credit for his story because it's a very weak story. The main character in his story is the closed fundraiser box, which is like Columbo's wife, that no one has ever seen him. The movement's website was nowhere to be found, and Gergely Christmas never spoke of it. But it's not just this element that makes you very suspicious, and I could even say that you're presenting this case as unbelievable. It is vital, my fellow Members, that they set up an organization to support Gergely Christmas, and that more than HUF 450 million of the HUF 506 million will be transferred into the organization's account after Gergely Christmas has already withdrawn from the candidates for ministers. [[Sic!]] It's a competition. Is this lifelike? ! [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: That's right!]] [[18.00]] Or will more than a hundred million forints of 500 million come into the account when, by the way, the left has already failed the elections and are in the process of scapegoating? Well, which left-wing activist would be willing to give ten million forints at a time like this? So the case is as suspicious as it is, and Gergely Christmas thinks Hungarian people are stupid with that answer. And the case also raises the suspicion of money laundering, because the origin of the money, since it is a cash deposit, is still unknown. So my question, with all due respect, is that, of course, Gergely Christmas never knows anything about anything, but could she have been inadvertently involved in a money laundering case behind her back? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-07-03-129	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Miklós Panyi. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2023-07-03-130	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, as has been said, Monty Python did not have the same imagination as Gergely Christmas; for the beekeepers and the master of the climate forest claim that the HUF 506 million mentioned in the report was collected in closed fundraising boxes. The mayor made sure that he shared this version with the public on Facebook, because he would have laughed in word. In addition, more than half a billion forints were made in euros and pounds, because from Kőszeg to Tuzsér, this is what happens when the electorate first not to the opposition campaign event, but to a currency exchange to convert to 50 euros and 50 euros and throw them into the boxes. Therefore, there is no shortage of imagination on the left, but we have known this since Ferenc Gyurcsány's operation that we do not even look for the opening of all the details of the truth, so we do not look for Ferenc Gyurcsány's student. Unfortunately, however, we are not on a political cabaret evening to have fun on this, because we are faced with the biggest campaign funding scandal after the regime change, because there is nothing less than the Hungarian left who has accepted billions of dollars, euros and pounds in order to gain power, and thus is under the influence of foreign groups and foreign interests. Between this dollar left and Gergely Christmas for the first time kept silent, then denied it, and now he's told the same story, which is ridiculous, childish, and also unworthy, shameful explanation. They denied it, lied about it, and now they're lying again, while they think Hungarian people, including the citizens of Budapest and their own voters, are completely stupid. Honourable Congressman, Ferenc Gyurcsány and his pupil, Mayor Gergely Christmas, have the opportunity to clear themselves in public; they do not. The Parliament must therefore definitely touch the relevant campaign funding rules in the autumn. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the authorities concerned must, in the meantime, carry out their investigative and fact-finding work. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-07-03-131	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return, please.
u2023-07-03-132	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, So the fact is that the origin of the HUF 506 million is still unclear; however, we know where that money went. What we don't know is where it came from; of course, if we had to guess, we would have a strong guess that it came from the same place as the 4 billion forints that rolled in the form of dollars to the left. But we do know where the money was spent: Ferenc Gyurcsány, the old friend of Ferenc Gyurcsány, spent this money in the campaign company of Gordon Bajnai, so it would be time for Ferenc Gyurcsány now because if someone knew where that money came from, it would probably clear this whole thing and tell them what he knows about it, that it wasn't about the money coming from abroad, they pushed it behind poor Gergely Karácsony, but when he stepped back, he stepped away from the tram, then the Gyurcsánys took the money, and put it into Ferenc Gyurcsány's campaign company [[Sic!]] Thank you very much. [[Kálmán Olga: Wow! A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-07-03-133	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2023-07-03-134	Thank you for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Unfortunately, I am unable to answer these questions. As I indicated, Gergely Christmas and Ferenc Gyurcsány have the opportunity to clear themselves in public; they do not. And yet it must be pointed out once again that this is the biggest campaign funding scandal after the change of regime. In addition, the Hungarian left also broke the political consensus since the change of regime that parties do not accept money for operation or campaign purposes from abroad, and yet the dollar left did so. The seriousness of the case cannot be emphasized enough, because with this action the Hungarian left was sold, blackmailed, controlled and served by foreign interests. The dollar left betrayed the Hungarian people and betrayed its own political community; the Hungarian dollar left became an agent and mercenary of foreign forces. And with their policies for the spread of pro-war, pro-migration and gender madness that they represent, we have no doubt that if they came to power, then the foreign mercenary [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This programme would be implemented. We must act against this and fight it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-07-03-135	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, It's 6:05 a.m., and we've reached the end of the immediate questioning. We continue our work with interpellations. [[Several Members leave the room. Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I would ask my fellow Members, who are leaving the Chamber now because of an urgent public task, to do so quietly and in as short a time as possible. Thank you for your understanding. [[A moment's pause.]] [[In the notary seat Dr. Lajos Szűcs will be replaced by Dr. Győző Vinnai, Sándor Szabó.]] Dear Parliament, Balázs Barkóczi, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:, How do you plan to stop the collapse of public education after your last leg is kicked out? It's an address. Mr Balázs Barkóczi has the floor.
u2023-07-03-136	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Well, there's hardly any sadder symbol of the destruction that you've done in public education in the last 13 years than there are teachers' tableaus now popping up along with the graduation tableaus. These are photographs and names of teachers who leave their school not only at the end of the year, but also their chosen and beloved vocations, although they have endured and have endured for a very long time, for which they deserve gratitude and recognition from the Hungarian people and deserve it from you, but, obviously, they cannot expect this gratitude and recognition from you. They persisted, while their undeserving low wages were almost eaten by inflation in Orbán, and their mere livelihoods were at risk. They held out while the school district leaders in Nice terrorized them with firings. They held out while they were working free overtime while getting lousy quality textbooks and unteachable basics. You have now, Mr Secretary of State, decided to fire the last leg of the Hungarian public education that is about to collapse, because the truth is that dozens of people have already announced that they will not continue their career as teachers in September, and that if you vote tomorrow for the Vengeful Law, this number may increase to thousands. The most outrageous thing about this is that this law does not solve anything of the general problems of Hungarian public education: it does not solve unpaid overtime; it does not solve the overload, it does not solve the outdated curriculum. The only thing this law is good for is for you to drown in protesting teachers. This law not only reduces the burden of teachers but also the burden of students: educators must continue to push an amazing amount of dry material through their students every day; you can continue to extend your working time to infinity; and they will also lose their status. And what is one of the most outrageous, and both teachers and students have protested, but you have not moved their ears, I know, will now come with their amendments, which are roughly technical amendments, that they can be transferred from one school to another at any time, even during the year, because this is your vision of Hungarian public education, and this is what they offer Hungarian teachers and Hungarian students. So I ask Mr Secretary of State how they will stop the mass leaving of teachers, the signs of which we are already seeing, and we are not even in September. I'm waiting for your answer, thank you. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2023-07-03-137	Dear Parliament, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor. [[18.10]]
u2023-07-03-138	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We have submitted the new teaching career law not only to have an independent status for teachers, but also to establish the basis for wage increases with this law, to fix the weekly teaching hours of teachers 24 hours instead of 26 hours, and also to increase the freedom of teachers from 46 to 50 days. If we are talking about the number of teachers, honourable Member: which was the government that not only took a month's salary from all Hungarian teachers, all teachers, but from one school year to the next 15,000 teachers! You put me on the street? Which government was that? The government of the left, your government. When your shadow secretary was a secretary of state, do you know what Gergely Arató said to teachers protesting mass dismissals of 15,000, centrally controlled layoffs? Gergely Arató, your fellow shadow minister, said that the demonstration is not a good answer to the problems, and that the purse is not dissuaded by the original intention of the demonstration. You said you could say anything to the demonstrators, you'd still fire 15,000 teachers, you'd still lose a month's wages from every teacher, you'd still make teacher training pay, and you'd still close the schools in 381 places. They brought the key to your ministry, to your fellow shadow minister, to pass it on to you, the school that was closed in 381 places. It was your educational achievement, closing schools, cutting salaries, and firing 15,000 teachers. After all, honourable Member, you have no half-phrase, no letter, which you would do in the interests of teachers, because you say that you can protest against you, that is not a good answer to the problems, and you are not dissuaded by any demonstration of your original intentions. This is your sympathy, compassion or support for Hungarian teachers. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-07-03-139	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Deputy Minister's reply. You have the floor.
u2023-07-03-140	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, I can't accept the answer. If I understand the first half of the answer given to you by the Rogán propaganda industry, the government's master plan is to raise teachers' wages with money coming from the EU, obviously because the EU has thrown the money together to pay Viktor Orbán, or the EU has also thrown money together for the million-dollar executive salaries. Believe me, Secretary of State, I very much understand your Gyurcsány-fixion, because if ever, there really were steps to renew public education in those eight years. We haven't dismissed a single educator, even though he's lying to someone else. Do you know what happened? We've renovated 365 kindergartens and schools! That government didn't steal EU money like yours, they put it in a reform program. 9122 accessible, renovated or built rooms were handed over at the end of the steering. How was your guaranteed salary? We received the salary of a university educator who worked 20 years ago with HUF 98 thousand and handed it over to you with HUF 172 thousand, Mr. Secretary of State. And most importantly, 16,000 people were admitted to teaching in 2010, and now 12,000. That's how you value teachers. Thank you.
u2023-07-03-141	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, If I have understood correctly, Congressman did not accept the Deputy Minister's reply. I would like to inform you that, according to our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Ferenc Gelencsér, representative of the Momentum, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior entitled "About Lies." It is for Congressman Ferenc Gelencsér to take the floor.
u2023-07-03-142	Who I'm going to get the answer from didn't tell me. Dear Minister, From the State Secretary for Public Education, Zoltán Maruzsa, we know that the Klebelsberg Centre coordinating the districts would be very difficult if he always had to tell the pure truth, that is, Zoltán Maruzsa says that lying, not telling the truth, makes the job easier. We're not surprised, because the state party always chooses the easy way, the lying, it's kind of a government policy for you. Before my two questions, I would like to make two proposals, since we are talking about directives. Initiate the withdrawal of the bill that further cripples educators and provide teachers with an immediate 50% wage increase instead of pointing out to the European Union. We believe in the truth in the Momentum, because it's the only thing that can move our nation forward, honesty. That's why I can't get over two questions. One: what are your experiences of how many times a day Secretary Zoltán Maruzsa lies? Second, how many times a day did Zoltán Maruzsa encourage his narrower and wider working environment not to tell the truth, because they would be in great difficulty? Thank you in advance for your non-negotiable answer. [[Let's hear it for Momentum.]]
u2023-07-03-143	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2023-07-03-144	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Mr. Team Leader! Dear House, In the letter you have read, it is precisely that accurate and objective information must always be provided, not false, but real information. But real information, accuracy or consistency with themselves is not the virtue of Momentum, honourable Member. I sense that you are quite receptive to this issue, since in 2014 you started with the Momentum offering an alternative to an insufferable government and unsuitable opposition. So the entire left with whom you are sitting was an unsuitable team for you in 2014. Then in 2017 your party president's predecessor said: I don't know what Ferenc Gyurcsány is still doing in politics, he could really get out of public life. Then, before the election, before the list was drawn up in 2019, he said: I can't imagine having a joint government with Gyurgy. Then Ferenc Gyurcsány joined the election on a joint list. So who's telling the truth and who's not telling the truth, honourable Member? For years, you have claimed that you will be the new generation on the left, which will not work with the old ones, who will enter Parliament without Gyurcsány, and then you will enter Parliament when you join forces with Ferenc Gyurcsány. Not to mention that your party partner first denied it in the matter of the rule of law, and then it turned out that when an internal recording was made public, he had consistently agreed on how Hungary could be condemned in a completely unfair procedure, honourable Member. On the other hand, we have tabled a bill here on Parliament's table, which is what we will vote on this week, which seeks to address all the problems and issues that arise in general both in Europe and in Hungary in relation to education, to offer some sort of solution, as opposed to the left. The new law that Parliament can adopt this week creates the basis for a wage increase. When the left was on the government, they imagined crisis management as taking a month's wages from the Hungarian teachers. The budget will advance 10-10 percent both this year and next year. Next year's budget includes a surplus of HUF 393 billion on the education line. This is precisely to ensure that next year's wage increase is also part of the national framework. Overall, we want to make the largest increase in the education wage of all time from Hungarian sources of HUF 800 billion and HUF 5600 billion, which could result in an increase of 75 per cent by 2025, with an average salary of HUF 800 000. With regard to the teacher-student ratio, we can say that, according to Eurostat comparison, Hungary is ranked eighth. We have a better teacher-student ratio in Greece, Malta, Croatia, Belgium, Luxembourg, Cyprus and Austria, with us in Italy and Portugal. And there is a worse teacher-student ratio in Poland, Lithuania, Slovenia, Bulgaria, Spain, Latvia, Denmark, Estonia, Sweden, Finland, Czech Republic, Germany, Ireland, Romania, Slovakia, France and the Netherlands, as shown by the EU. When we started our governance, we had 11.4 more students, today we have a better rate, 10.6 students, and the EU ratio is 12.1, and the OECD is 14. So Hungarian data is more favourable than all data, 2010 and 2010 than EU and OECD data in terms of teacher-student ratio. This is a statement of Eurostat, honourable Member, and you often argue with them less often. And so that this ratio can be further improved, so that young people who graduate from university and start taking up teaching careers do not leave the teaching field, it is important that in the new performance rental system the disadvantage is that those who were young have been punished by the pay system now in force, because in addition to youth, lower wages were mandatory and only older people could have higher wages. This is a very positive change for young teachers. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-07-03-145	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I will ask Congressman to accept the Deputy Minister's reply.
u2023-07-03-146	Unfortunately, I cannot accept Mr Secretary's reply because he did not answer the question. The question was, what are your experiences, how many times a day Secretary Zoltán Maruzsa lies [[Bence Rétvári: I answered this in my first sentence!]] And what you've seen is how many times a day Zoltán Maruzsa encourages his narrower, wider working environment, let's say you don't tell the truth, because then you'd have a great deal of trouble. However, if we are already talking, please tell the Minister of Police that he still owes a promise to the Hungarian families and students. Promise me you won't beat young people who protest and protest for their future with a baton and tear gas. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Momentum.]] [[18.20]]
u2023-07-03-147	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman did not accept the Deputy Minister's reply. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Zita Gurmai, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance:. What remains of the Hungarian families from the protection of families after family allowances have been infiltrated, housing subsidies have been abolished and the price stops have been removed? It's an address. In reply to the interpellation, the Prime Minister appointed Mr János Csák, Minister for Culture and Innovation, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of the Minister, the interpellation will be answered by Secretary of State Eszter Vitalyos. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2023-07-03-148	Thank you very much. Mr President, Madam Secretary! Fellow Members! The brutal restrictions of Fidesz are increasingly depressing Hungarian families, only we have such inflation, such an increase, and this is not because of the sanctions, because there is no such thing anywhere else. The precious one is caused by a failed Fidesz economic policy. In addition, the Orbán government recently submitted a budget for deleveraging by 2024 with increasing taxes and a great deal of austerity for this Fidesz plan next year. I'll give you a list of examples, if you don't mind. Essentially, Fidesz will eliminate the CSOK, as it will only be available in small settlements. The age of the baby shower is also significantly reduced. The family allowance was last raised by the MSZP government. In 15 years the amount of maternity allowance has not increased by one forint, nor the amount of child or child. But the Fidesz government not only screwed families, but also pensioners: most recently pensions were raised by 15 percent, while they knew that the price increase would be more than 20 percent. Is this an appreciation of pensioners for their less and less money? And don't give me the 13th month's pension, because it's long gone by the inflation generated by Fidesz. There is no reason for the MSZP to start raising pensions by at least 5% as soon as possible. Now we don't need fidesz cuts and cuts, we need tax cuts and more support. That is why the MSZP says that VAT on food and residential energy should be 5%. We also recommend giving food bank cards to the most deprived families, compensation to small shops and producers. Understand, inflation in Orbán is eating people's money. And the answer to that is not that the Fidesz government raises taxes and eliminates subsidies. In addition, the government has already touched bank deposits: they force the family's savings into sovereign debt, so that the Fidesz government has more money in its pockets and less money in the people's pockets. What an outrageous cynicism this is from the Orbán government of billionaires! ? For all these reasons, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State: what remains of the protection of families, after Fidesz has made family subsidies worthless, what remains of the protection of families, after they have abolished housing subsidies and the price stops out? I look forward to the Secretary of State's reply. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause in the dialogue.]]
u2023-07-03-149	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Eszter Vitalyos, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2023-07-03-150	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I don't want to be disrespectful or cynical for a moment, but I still have to ask you the questions that you remember about the Bokros package, do you remember that Gyurcsány, Bajnai package? It's sad that I have to remind you that austerity was your crisis management genre. Let us also recall in some thought what these were, so that these truly restrictive measures, which you have punished the Hungarian families, will not go to oblivion. The home creation system of the first Orbán Cabinet was abolished, and Hungarian families were chased into risky foreign exchange loans. In 2006, regular child protection support and family tax relief for parents with one and two children were abolished. Unemployment has steadily increased under your governance, reaching 11.8 percent in the first quarter of 2010. During their eight-year government, the minimum wage was raised by only HUF 23 500, while the average salary was barely worth HUF 200,000 in 2010. Electricity has been doubled by three times the price of residential natural gas. They broke the pensioners, took away the 13th month pension from 2.4 million pensioners. The increase in the amount of the care fee between 2005 and 2010 was a total of 15 per cent. On the other hand, since the family-friendly turnaround in Hungary in 2010, we have helped and helped Hungarian families with a number of measures, and I would like to mention some of them. Since 2010, we have raised the minimum wage more than three times, from 73 500 HUF to 232 thousand HUF. The unemployment rate is now only 3.9 percent. Since 2010, pensions have increased by nearly 92 percent. The average pension increased from HUF 97 thousand in 2010 to HUF 208 500 in 2023. Over the last seven years, pensioners and pension recipients have received an extra payment of approximately HUF 1370 billion with their 13th monthly pension and benefits returned. And I am amazed to hear your comments on the reduction of the rent. During last year's campaign, they were still attacking the pricestops, calling it pretense measures, and now they want to maintain this system. Really, I think you're not only discredited, you're unbelievable. Nevertheless, I must inform you that the price stop in the fight against inflation has served its purpose and that it will be extended until 1 August. We will continue to use new anti-inflationary instruments, including the online price monitoring system and mandatory action. As far as family support is concerned, Congresswoman, we have made two decisions: we are raising the amount of baby shower support and village CSOK, and instead of CSOK, we are developing a new system of family and home creation that will help families in the current situation, and it will mean real efficiency. We will develop the new system by the end of the year in consultation with family organisations. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] So you reassure everyone that panicking is groundless, and from 2024 the people outside the small settlements will not be without support. And I propose to you, my fellow left-wing Members, that instead of spreading false news, you support the government's family support measures, which, by the way, will be used by you and represent Hungarian interests both at home and abroad. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-07-03-151	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Zita Gurmai and welcome my fellow Members.
u2023-07-03-152	Thank you very much. Mr President, Madam Secretary! Well, see, that's the problem with you: when you get an awkward question, you always start talking about something else. [[Eszter Vitalos: No, I was talking about us!]] Now they've been working for the past 13 years. Well, I think there's been a lot going on since then, and I don't think it's possible to compare that time period to that time, even because it was a whole other world then. [[Eszter Battalion intervenes.]] [[Eszter Battalion intervenes.]] So in any case, I expect to know when they're gonna come up with what the left did during, say, the Muhi battle. But you know what? (Eszter Battalion interrupts.) I'll tell you how to speak clearly. [[Eszter Debate: I'd rather you didn't.]] what the Hungarian Socialist Party proposes in next year's budget. Let's double the funding for children on the subject, because it's a real step. Let us introduce the increase in pensions according to the mixed indexation, because now they are taking 60 billion out of pensioners' pockets by virtually not working on the mixed indexation. Let's double the amount of public health care. Let the amount of the care fee be the minimum wage at all times! We're going to double the social firewood subsidies. You see, my dear Secretary of State, that's the spirit. Thank you. [[Applause in the lines of Dialogue and LMP. Eszter Battalion intervenes.]]
u2023-07-03-153	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The congresswoman did not say that she would accept the Secretary of State's answer. I have to ask the question, so I respectfully ask the congresswoman if she will accept it.
u2023-07-03-154	Unfortunately, I can't accept it. [[Eszter Vítalos: That's what I did!]]
u2023-07-03-155	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[18.30]] Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Culture and Innovation:. Why does the government not support the creation of families more? It's an address. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-07-03-156	Mr President, Dear House, I'm glad we have a secretary in our midst. These are two very important issues concerning family support. I am pleased because I and our political community supported the extensive support of families' home creation when the CSOK and the baby shower did not even exist in this institutionalized form. So we have relatively old experience in Parliament about what it is like to support and support the implementation of family and childbearing plans. You're on the wheel, so you've got that ball bounced. I think it is very important to say that it is possible to move in both the baby shower and the CSOK other than what the government has announced. Madam State Secretary mentioned an increase in the amount, which is undoubtedly a 10% increase in the maximum framework below inflation, but let us note that this is accompanied by a drastic reduction in the number of participants and users. And that's a tactic that one of the ministers is talking about, so that you can quickly pick up as many people as you can, and bring your plans forward, to my very undeserving feeling. I hope it's not all government intentions and rhetoric that cover the same thing, and I hope they're not the same. But the point is, after a grace period of 30-40, the ladies are unfortunately removed from the possibility of using the baby shower, and we see that we usually lead out a CSOK or a form of home-building support when we have the next one. Now you're in a very awkward situation, and so am I, because we should be guessing what the government will put on the table by the end of the year. It is spookily similar to the abolition of state aid for housing savings. If you recall, the introduction of State aid for LTP also took place as if there had been a promise that there would be something similar and, unfortunately, this could not be seen later, so it did not replace that thing. This is about a much wider media interest. I trust that the reconstruction of this will be clear. But I also see that we believe that there would be budgetary resources to increase both the grant amount and the preferential loan framework. There would also be budgetary resources to maintain these subsidies until the new system is established, but if this remains so, Madam Secretary, I have only one question: what is the message of our 30-40 lady countrymen who live in cities? They have plans for family expansion, childbearing, and they are now completely puzzled by your announcement, since they do not know what they can and cannot use in this situation? We're talking about a very broad social age group. If the composition of previous claimants is examined, they also see that this is necessary between the ages of 30 and 40, and that support for home creation is essential both in rural areas and in cities. I look forward to your substantive answer.
u2023-07-03-157	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Deputy Minister, Secretary of State, Eszter Vitalyos. Here you go.
u2023-07-03-158	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, One thing I think is that right in the beginning: having a child before 2010 was the same as taking on poverty. You know perfectly well that austerity was a key tool for the political props of their left-wing allies. It was your left-wing allies who abolished the Orbán Cabinet's first home creation system, abolished state-supported housing loans, more than doubled the housing tax, frozen state-supported housing loans, and chased Hungarian families into risky foreign exchange loans. The consequences of the Brussels sanctions policy supported by the left are high interest rates, which have changed the economic and home creation environment in our country. That is why we have had to look at certain elements of the family support system that have now been 12 years, how they work in the current situation, how they can live up to their expectations. Two decisions have been made by the government. One is to raise the amount of baby shower support and village CSOK. Baby shower support is a very successful family support tool to encourage childbearing. If we manage to get the first child to take place at a younger age, even than before, we believe that it can be more effective. This is why we decided that for married couples under the age of 30, we will provide the construction with an amount of 11 million HUF instead of 10 million in the same terms and conditions as next year, but we will also leave it open for women aged 30-40 for another year if the couple confirms the wife's pregnancy. Baby shower support will be available on unchanged terms until the end of this year. As I mentioned, we have also reviewed the CSOK system, and we have seen that because of the high interest rates and property prices in cities, CSOK in its current form is no longer sufficient to help create a home, but we also need to make use of a further substantial part of itself. The village CSOK, on the other hand, in smaller settlements where the price increase was more moderate, could continue to provide significant support to the families, so it is worth preserving the village CSOK and even increasing the amount by another 50 percent, so we believe that it can provide sufficient help in addition to the increased prices and repayments. There is also the possibility of refunding VAT. In the case of the construction and purchase of the new family house, the funds will be available under the same conditions as the previous ones, while at the same time significantly increasing the purchase, expansion, modernisation, and modernisation of the existing property, even in the case of one, two or three children. Like I said, we're working on new conditions, we're working on a new family support system. I think we are also looking forward to your proposals, together to discussing how to better target support for home creation, and what are the subsidies that can really help Hungarian families in this difficult economic environment. That's what we work for. I would like to ask you not to judge in advance, blindly, a thought or a task that we have not yet come to an end to, but to discuss and participate together in the development of the new programme. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-07-03-159	Thank you very much. I will ask Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa to accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2023-07-03-160	Mr President, Dear House, Madam Secretary, I'm not judging you in advance. I'm just making the perfectly logical human argument here that if you lead something out and then replace it with another thing, bring that other thing here first, and then let's get the support available. I understand that it was not entirely led out, but perhaps after the one-year grace period, the exclusion of the 30-40 ladies from the baby shower may be interpreted as a restriction. I will not be able to accept your answer because it is contrary to my basic setting to support and accept any restrictions on families, so I cannot be more open on this issue. Of course, we will make our proposals, but in the meantime, I would like to get you to look for budgetary resources, to keep the system so far, to argue about the new one, to do a better one, to put our improving proposals on this, but to do so, we also need to restore the state leg of housing savings, a public-based housing scheme. The tasks of creating homes in front of Hungary are set up. So I'm going to get you to think about not austerity, but expansion, because it's in the interests of the Hungarian families and prosperity in the homeland. Thank you for your patience.
u2023-07-03-161	Thank you very much. Since the Member has not accepted the Secretary of State's reply, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Now, Mr.Előd Novák, representative of Mi Hazank, who has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Defence:, Why do they undertake to protect Slovakia's airspace with Hungarian Gripens, so that they can give their MiG-29s to Ukraine? It's an address. Congressman Novak has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-07-03-162	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, It was a public outrage that the Hungarian government kept it secret and we had to find out from the Slovak Minister of Defence: Hungary is also involved in training Ukrainian soldiers and health professionals. The commander of the Hungarian Defence Forces also visited the Ukrainian Joint Chiefs in secret last summer. We also learned about this only afterwards, from Ukrainian news. [[18.40]] At that time, the Head of the Ukrainian Armed Forces stated that he was satisfied with the level of military cooperation between Ukraine and Hungary. Then they also agreed to provide the Baltic airspace with Hungarian Gripenek, and they were also in conflict with Russian fighters, which the Hungarian Defence Forces proudly reported. Why are you involved in the war, Mr. Secretary? Then another news is that Slovakia's airspace will also be protected by Hungarian Grips. Why do they undertake this, which is the indirect support of the US-Russian war in Ukraine? Slovakia has transferred the Russian MiG-29s, which are the backbone of the Slovak air force, to Ukraine, thanks to Hungarian support. Government propaganda is also extremely false that the Hungarian-Ukrainian border is not crossed by arms shipments, as in fact, arms shipments can go through Hungary to Ukraine through the intervention of Slovakia and Romania; the government is extremely hypocritical. In fact, the Hungarian military transporter also carries weapons to Ukraine, one of the heavy-air carriers of NATO, stationed on the Pope, is a Hungarian-signed C-17 aircraft; a photograph of the launch of the missiles was also published. Then the Hungarian financial support of Ukraine is also incomprehensible and unacceptable. According to the government resolution of 16 March, we support the anti-Hungarian Ukrainians through the EU with 74 billion HUF, and instead of veto through the EU, for example, ammunition subsidies are supported. Unfortunately, we also support the Ukrainians' war directly with fuel to ensure the operation of the tanks. The Ukrainian oil refineries and reservoirs were destroyed in the summer by the Russians, and since then Ukraine's army has been supplied with fuel from abroad, mostly with Hungarian gas oil; it seems to be worth it to someone. It is also evidence of Fidesz's pro-warhood and government's pro-warhood that our country has become a foreign military march area by allowing NATO combat groups, especially American armoured ones, to enter. Disbanding Hungary's independence is unacceptable. Foreign forces would have no place in our country, Hungary belongs to the Hungarians. And after the NATO enlargement vote in March, it is no wonder that our country was added to the list of unfriendly countries with the Russians. Instead of serving the new world order and expanding the war, it would be necessary to promote our independence, our neutrality, and thus peace, according to the Hungarian Movement. We really don't want a world war, but the government is slylyly supporting Ukraine in the war. But why? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[István Szabadi applauds.]]
u2023-07-03-163	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Tamás Vargha, Deputy Minister of State. Here you go.
u2023-07-03-164	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to say very strongly in front of everyone that there is no war support or any hidden visit. What we are talking about is that Hungary is a reliable and well-performing ally country of the NATO Federation and, of course, we are involved as allies in addressing the challenges arising from the changed security environment. We in Székesfehérvár are especially proud to have a direct NATO command in our city. And, of course, there is no mention of any foreign forces stationed in Hungary. The NATO Alliance requires that, if a country is not able to do so on its own, it should be assisted by other Member States to ensure that its airspace is protected and that other Member States provide for the protection of airspace law enforcement, so that the Alliance has been encouraging nations to do so regionally or among neighbouring countries for years. The Hungarian air force has also been involved in such surveillance tasks for many years, with border crossing agreements and bilateral technical agreements that we have, of course, done. In the case of the Baltic countries, since September 2015, the Hungarian Defence Office has been carrying out surveillance tasks, this was the third time last year, and of course we intend to return at the request of the Baltic countries, and I stress that the Hungarian air force is carrying out surveillance tasks. The signing of this agreement, the signing of the Hungarian-Slovak airspace police agreement, is a significant milestone that contributes to Hungary's security and shows that the Hungarian air force can and wants to work together with others for the security of the region. According to this agreement, Hungary, together with the Czech Republic and Poland, provides the protection of Slovakia's airspace, and so the Gripens of the Hungarian Air Force have taken on another honour and responsibility, which of course lasts until the Slovak Air Force is able to perform this task on its own. The Slovak MiG-29s have not been carrying out surveillance tasks for a long time, and in view of this, negotiations have started long before the Russian-Ukrainian war began. Therefore, this agreement has nothing to do with what Slovakia has done with its MiG-29 aircraft. Slovakia and Hungary are two committed NATO alliances, and our aim is to maintain this cooperation between us in the future. Finally, I would like to thank the Hungarian Defence Forces for their work, and the Hungarian Air Force is performing an outstanding service of respect and respect for the entire defence alliance. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-07-03-165	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. I'll ask Mr. President Novák to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2023-07-03-166	Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Unfortunately, I can't accept the answer, because we couldn't really hear specifics unless we were reliable NATO allies. However, our contractual obligation to be a member of NATO would only help to protect it if a Member State was attacked, but Ukraine is not a NATO member! It is also unacceptable for Slovakia, even if it has been prepared earlier, but only in the war has Slovakia gone there to become completely unfit to defend its own airspace, by offering Ukraine their own MiG-29s directly against the Russians. It is therefore unacceptable and did not reply to the reason why Slovakia's airspace is being protected in this light. And the biggest public uproar was precisely the fact that NATO expansion was voted in a large coalition way, after which, of course, it is no wonder that our country was added to the list of unfriendly countries with the Russians. Therefore, there is nothing to support in this shady policy of the government. Thank you very much. [[István Szabadi applauds.]]
u2023-07-03-167	Thank you very much, Congressman. As we have heard, Congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I would like to inform you and the honourable Member that, according to our agreed agenda, the decision will take place tomorrow at our meeting. Dear Parliament, Imre András Jámbor and Bence Tordai, representatives of the Dialogue, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice: what concrete steps have been taken, and what other measures are planned to detect executive fraud and compensate victims? It's an address. Congressman Bence of Turdai has the floor. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-07-03-168	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Judit Varga's downfall: after his resignation, we have now brought up an interpellation for you a few months ago, because we have not received an answer to the questions expressed in it, and now, in fact, in the absence of the good Minister, you should be performing your swan song. It is about the fact that the Deputy Minister, Pál Völner, is now not only a suspect, but also sitting in court in cases marked by Schadl, Rogán and his name, in which I would also like to listen to Judit Varga for quite some time now, as well as the involvement of four Fidesz Members. But maybe that's not the most important thing, because we know that Fidesz is running a corrupt system, but who the victims are. The injured are more than 3,000 families whose property was sold well below the market price. Among them, a 450 million-dollar property was sold for HUF 38 million, and of this, the proceeds of the executor's mafia only those who are now caught and who are involved in the lawsuit, nearly one billion forints of profit were in pocket in one year, but in the same year the executive mafia had a total of HUF 9 billion in business. [[Resume 75/2!]] 2022-2026. parliamentary term Budapest, Monday 3 July 2023 75/2. Number Parliamentary Diary [[18.50]] You, Secretary of State, have repeatedly promised to investigate controversial proceedings since the outbreak of the scandal, and if it turns out that they were illegal, these will be declared null and void. Since then, you haven't heard anything about these procedures. We are curious about the methods in which these controversial or invalid auctions will really be nullified. We also see that the outsourcing of this executive activity to the Supervisory Authority for Regulatory Activities is nothing more than a confession, and the sad situation is that the proceedings that raise the suspicion of the infringement have continued ever since. These are unethical, inhumane procedures, and the fate of many, many Hungarian families has been ruined in these implementations. This corruption has now been known for a year and a half, and the government has done nothing to stop it, but it also does not support the opposition's constructive, well-designed legislative proposals, just as the committee of inquiry initiated to investigate the scandal has been repeatedly voted down. Mr Secretary of State, please respond to the concrete steps that have been taken to detect executive fraud, to compensate innocent victims, to prevent similar insufferable cases, and to confirm that Judit Varga was not involved in the Pegasus case at the time, but in the Völner case. I look forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the dialogue benches.]]
u2023-07-03-169	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Répássy Róbert, Deputy Minister of State. Here you go.
u2023-07-03-170	Honourable Congressman, I'll start with this last one, what you asked me about Judit Varga. She was an excellent Minister of Justice for Judi Varga, and I'm very happy to work with her. I have to say that what he was doing was moving forward in every way, because he started programs that were only worthy and suitable for continuation. But right now, I don't want to talk about the entire work of the Justice Department, but I'm going back to your question. I have replied so many times that I myself, how should I put it, am ashamed to say that once again I have to tell you that the supervision of the judicial enforcement body, more specifically the enforcement body, has been a member of the Supervisory Authority for Regulated Activities since 1 October 2021. The Act of Enforcement, paragraphs 230 and 231. §2 of the Act states exactly what powers the President of the Supervisory Authority for Regulated Activities has, how he can control the activities of the executives. I would add that, in the course of judicial enforcement proceedings, the SZTFH is not entitled to provide a solution to infringements, but a court is entitled, since if in an enforcement case a person considers that an unlawful enforcement is being carried out against him, he may lodge an enforcement objection, which the court will judge, or even a so-called enforcement action may be brought in order to stop enforcement. They are also judged by the court. In fact, the legitimacy of the appointments you have so many times mentioned can be questioned in court. If someone believes that the executioner acting against him has not been legally appointed, then it will also be decided by the court. This system is not too complicated, since, as a result of the separation of powers, judicial enforcement, as it is in its name, is under the supervision of the court, its legality will be judged by the court, the legality of the enforcement acts will be judged by the court. The supervision of the implementing body belongs to the STFH. What then falls under the power of the Minister of Justice? It's the legislation, it's the legislation. If, in the future, the designated Minister of Justice... By the way, you attended the ministerial hearing today, and you told me that if you think... [[Bence of Turda: No!]] I apologize. You didn't attend, I apologize, Congressman. But it was indeed today that the hearing took place, and during the hearing, the Minister-designate said that we would keep an eye on the results of the application of the law, so that we could gather the experience of enforcement in the enforcement cases, and, if necessary, the Ministry of Justice will obviously do so to propose an amendment. As regards restructuring or leaving the implementing body unchanged, it is very important to state that the situation of debtors is not altered by the fact that enforcement is non-profit-making or organised on other grounds. The situation of debtors can be improved if, first, they voluntarily fulfil their debt, voluntarily comply with the judgments and, second, if they are unable to comply with the judgment, then there are all kinds of facilitations, such as a payment discount or, ultimately, a so-called private bankruptcy procedure or a debt settlement procedure. So I would ask that we jointly draw the debtors' attention to their potential if they are unable to comply with an implementation. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-07-03-171	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Now I'm going to ask Congressman Bence Tordai to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2023-07-03-172	Unfortunately, I can't accept it, because when such cynical sentences leave Mr. Secretary of State's mouth, it was moving forward in every way, I mean, the good Minister. This may be forward-looking for you, but we know where it is, according to your concept. But at least he said the word I'm ashamed of. I'm glad you're ashamed of that, and I'm also glad you brought up the legality of the appointments. Because the thing is, he only had the authority to appoint executives, and he's been in prison for quite some time now, and we don't really understand how 35 executives were legally appointed at the time. So if you feel so much responsibility for this, perhaps it would be worth seeing how executives appointed since Schadl went to prison can derive their legitimacy. It's true, it's their job to regulate. That is why we propose that instead of blaming debtors, blaming the victims, which he once again said in a very cynical way, we should be partners in creating a good regulation, on which the Group of Dialogue-Greens has already made several concrete proposals. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the dialogue benches.]]
u2023-07-03-173	Thank you very much. The Member did not accept the Secretary of State's reply, so I would like to inform you that, according to our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, MEPs Lóránt Keresztes and Máté Kanász-Nagy, representatives of the LMP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Energy:, Why do they stand by and watch foreign battery companies operating here ignore the legislation? It's an address. Congressman Matthew Kanász-Nagy has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-07-03-174	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, A fire recently broke out in the battery recycling plant in the brook. This is about the company and plant for which several infringements have been found by the authorities and which has been repeatedly tried to be directed to regular behaviour in compliance with the law. We're talking about a company where, despite official procedures, there was an explosion at this site last year. About the company that had a tragic accident at the other site of the company in March this year. It must be said that the protection of the interests of people living near such plants, the protection of workers working in such companies, and the protection of the environment, may have never been in as much danger as it is at present. We think it is time to talk clearly about what is happening in this country today in relation to such plants and what will happen if we do not intervene. Protecting our natural resources and securing the future of our children cannot be a matter of debate. You, honourable government parties, are constantly talking about the need to comply with strict environmental rules in Hungary. But what you claim may never have been as far away from reality as it is now. The already mentioned South Korean company deals with battery recycling at two sites. Several times, serious violations were found by the authorities, but ridiculously low fines were imposed which could not oblige the company to comply with the law. So, in the summer of last year, there was an explosion in the Bátony tere. Despite the fact that the case was prosecuted, there was another explosion in Szigetszentmiklós in March this year, which was also fatal. Nevertheless, this company can continue to operate. Despite the fact that, according to the information received to us, the investigation was again carried out at the end of March this year, this led to a very serious finding, a multiple infringement of the operation of the plant, a recent accident and a fire which had been involved in the press. [[19.00]] Recent studies have found that conditions are even worse than in previous situations in this company, control staff have experienced skin and mucosal irritation on their own, illegal conditions on the site, illegal waste management activities, and the rest. Ladies and gentlemen, This company has a record that he has repeatedly ignored and ignored the laws, but it can still work, and it may even expand its activities. We, for our part, have reported the current violations and their consequences. In the past, we have made countless suggestions to prevent such unblessed conditions from developing. What I would like to ask you now is why do you stand by and let foreign companies operate here ignore Hungarian legislation? Why do they make it impossible to introduce stricter environmental rules? How can a mayor and government make such a battery investment against the will of a city? Thank you for the answer in advance. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-07-03-175	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Zsófia Koncz, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2023-07-03-176	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to stress that all accidents at work are extremely sad and regrettable. I don't think there's any argument between us that none of this is supposed to happen. The various occupational, occupational and technological requirements are precisely to ensure that no person is injured during work. I would like to make it clear that the government is committed to the health and safety of Hungarian workers at work, and therefore every investment in Hungary must comply with the same strict standards. I would like to ask the LMP not to question professionals who work in other areas of OSH, environmental protection or public administration, because I think that they are humbly and truly conscientiously doing their job in such a way that they want to comply with these rules in all respects. And I think it's a particularly bad direction if you want to take political advantage of other people's losses, because that would be unworthy, I think, of the people involved. You, Congressman, have been talking about the recycling of batteries and the operational risks associated with them. In this respect, it is important to note that the worn-out, damaged battery is not garbage, but waste, and waste can be recycled. That's the same for batteries. We are not talking about ordinary waste, but dangerous waste, which is why the authorities pay particular attention to such plants and, as you have acknowledged, they regularly carry out inspections on the ground. In the event of an irregularity being committed, the authorities shall be severely punished and, in the case of that plant, the repeated infringement shall be subject to the most serious fine. As you pointed out, the South Korean company's Szentmiklós plant had a fire on 14 March 2023, and the police are investigating it. In the other case, there is also an investigation into the fire on the Bátony tere. As you pointed out, you filed a complaint in this case. I would like to confirm that, if investigations establish the institutional or personal responsibility of anyone, liability will take place and that the competent authorities will take all necessary measures in this respect. I think that, because of the seriousness of the case, it would be very important that these investigations are closed, and in no way should I suggest a mood attack. Today we have discussed battery production and the issue of electric cars, and I just want to confirm them. I have repeatedly indicated this to the LMP faction that there was agreement or agreement between us that greening and greening are important and that Timmermans himself, the EU Commissioner for the European Green Agreement, is calling for mass electric battery production. You also fought at a press conference in 2021. I think it is important to bring professionalism in this matter and not to strengthen the mood. I can confirm that the Hungarian automotive industry is particularly important for the Hungarian economy, the hundreds of thousands of people who work there are very important, I think, for all of us. Being involved in this technology competition is also an important interest for a nation. What I can tell you, and I can confirm that in any case, we will comply with the strictest environmental rules. I ask you, Congressman, to accept my answer. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-07-03-177	Thank you very much, Madam Deputy Minister. I will now ask Congressman Matthew Kanász-Nagy to accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2023-07-03-178	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Unfortunately, all I can do is take a minute to look at the statements made by the Secretary of State. All accidents at work are regrettable, which is why safe jobs should be brought to Hungary. Battery companies aren't that kind of jobs. She says, Madam Secretary, there are strict rules. That's the problem, even if there were strict rules, they still don't follow these rules. There is also a very serious problem with compliance with the rules. I do not question the work of professionals, I question the work of the government and the attitude of the government, that they want to turn Hungary into a battery ring. They keep coming in with waste recycling. With regard to waste management, this is the third level, which should be stressed so as not to create hazardous waste. So we shouldn't bring these factories here. It refers to the action taken by the authorities. Yeah, they've done it dozens of times, serially, punishing these companies, no teeth, that's the problem. He's referring to greening. The fact is that we are implementing the European Union's green standing at the expense of Hungary, which is the problem. I can't accept the answer, I'm sorry, thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-07-03-179	Thank you very much. Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you, Mr President, that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place tomorrow at our meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Alpár Gyopáros, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade:, has the continuous growth of Hungarian external economic indicators continued in 2023 despite the difficult circumstances? It's an address. Mr Alpár Gyopáros has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-07-03-180	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The Hungarian investment promotion system has set up a series of positive records in recent years. Last year, the Hungarian economy reached a master threesome, breaking the record of employment, investments and exports. If Covid and the war hadn't come, our country would probably have gone to heights we had never imagined before. Although the Hungarian left, along with Brussels and the various international pro-war organizations, makes every effort to prolong this war, Hungary represents a clear pro-peace position. It is important to us that the security of the Hungarian people and the Hungarian interests are taken into account. If there is no war, there will be no meaningless death for humans, including our Transcarpathian compatriots in the war. And if there is no war, economic conditions and inflation rates can also be normalized. Despite the many difficult circumstances and the liberal counterwind, Minister Szijjártó constantly reports that large international companies are voting alongside our country, Hungary has become the primary target of foreign investors. We are pleased to receive the good news constantly that from the East, from the West, we have a long-term investment spirit towards our country, and we have more and more companies. In addition, these companies are also clearly turning towards the Hungarian countryside, and the sovereignty of the capital has ceased in this respect. Thus, the conscious transport development policy, which will reach every county seat in the fast-moving road network of our country, through the. Modern Cities. There is no longer a competitive region, the Hungarian countryside has the same chances of applying for the attention of an international investor as the capital. Thanks to Hungarian foreign economic policy and the strength of Hungarian companies, the diligence of Hungarian people, we can escape ahead and the economy is stable. The HIPA National Investment Agency's activities in my own constituency, Győr-Moson-Sopron County, are also well perceived, and the interest of international companies in our continuous region is also filled with industrial parks. In Kapuvár, for example, Laurastar Hungary Kft. and Intretech Hungary Kft. the Eastern and Western economic relations are also strengthened and their developments continue to work for people living in the region. But I could mention, for example, Interfa Furniture Ltd. in the village of Szany. Therefore, to feel the determination and awareness with which the Hungarian foreign economy is successfully fighting for the attention and investment of international companies, and it is especially glad to me, a rural representative, that the country is appreciably balanced in terms of the geographical location of investments, so that rural Hungary will benefit significantly from these large-scale investments and developments, thereby giving work to our countrymen living in the countryside. [[19.10]] I ask the honourable Secretary of State: what does the year 2023 bring to Hungary, especially to the Hungarian countryside, from an investment point of view? How does the geographical distribution of foreign capital develop in our country? Has the continued growth of Hungarian economic indicators continued this year? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2023-07-03-181	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Tamás Menczer. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2023-07-03-182	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Thank you also for raising the issue of investment. At this late hour, it may be possible to say that, although you are undoubtedly my colleague and friend, it is true, however, that we are able to talk intelligently about investment for the first time today, thanks to your introduction and topic. We have not had the opportunity to do so today with our left-wing colleagues, but the day is not over, so let's not give up hope on this. Honourable Congressman, Indeed, as you say, the work and portfolio in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs changed in 2014, when Minister Szijjártó took over his office, and from then on we are conducting foreign policy with foreign economic focus. This practically means, and perhaps it is worth saying, that we have broken up with the tradition that members of the diplomatic body are chatting with their colleagues about various cigar smoke salons, tied fingers, crystal cups of coffee or tea or something else, purple foggy topics with little influence on everyday life. This broke up, and we said that we are pursuing foreign policy with an external economic focus, i.e. the task of the employees is to invest in Hungary and look for export markets for companies that operate in Hungary. By the way, we have achieved, in addition to serving an important purpose, that our performance has become measurable, as you have referred to. This was also necessary, for example, because in 2010, when the Orbán government took over the leadership of the country from our fellow left-wing colleagues, the country was, of course, bankrupt, and in addition to many things, it was a sign that unemployment was 11-12 percent, that many families and many people were not sure about their income, so jobs had to be created. Now, when unemployment is already low in Europe, we have the opportunity to raise technological standards and place greater emphasis, for example, on research and development, innovation and similar areas. What I can tell you, honourable Member, and to this House is that in recent years, we have indeed decided on an ongoing investment and export record. This means that last year approximately EUR 6.5 billion of investment was decided for Hungary; this is an order of magnitude of HUF 2600 billion. And if you look at the composition you asked, you can see that 48 percent of investments came from the East last year, 2022, 42 percent from the West, 10 percent from Hungary; so our investment structure is fully balanced. If we look at how the processes have evolved in the last four years, i.e. 2019-20-21-22, then we can see that in all four years, the investment volume was first in the Eastern country, i.e. in terms of the amount of money invested: three times South Korea, once China; but if the number of investments can be expressed so badly, Germany will be the first in all four years. So you can see here that East-West is in balance. What I would like to talk about is exports, because investments and exports go hand in hand, pulling each other forward. Last year we also decided on an export record: in 2022 Hungarian exports amounted to EUR 142 billion, this is double in 2010; and Hungary is a member of the 35th club, there are 35 countries that can deliver more than EUR 100 billion. If we consider that we are about 94-95 in terms of population, then we can clearly see what a result that is. And it's not for itself, it's for jobs, and for our common achievements, family support, 13th month's pension, tax exemption for young people, jobs, we can protect all of this in wartime. Thank you again for bringing this up. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-07-03-183	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman Alpár Gyopáros to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2023-07-03-184	Dear Secretary of State, For two reasons, the focus shift that has tilted the balance in foreign policy towards the focus of the external economy is joyful, too, from my own perspective. On the one hand, the constituency, the region where I live, which I represent in the Parliament, is the Rábaköz, which is a relatively more fortunate historical region, but still, during the Gyurcsány governments, even during the Rába process, the unemployment rate was 6-8-10 percent; it is today around 1 percent or less than 1 percent, so practically unemployment cannot be talked about during Rába. On the other hand, all the results we have achieved have been achieved by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Government, thanks to this policy, allowing the budget to finance not only the measures that you mentioned, but, for example, the "Hungarian Village" programme. That is why it is joyful and that is why I accept your answer. Thank you very much.
u2023-07-03-185	Thank you very much. Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Member László Földi, representative of KDNP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Economic Development:, How can government decisions on the SZÉP card help the economic recovery? It's an address. It is for Congressman László Földi to take the floor. Here you go.
u2023-07-03-186	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, For all of us, every day, we experience the problems that continue to be caused by the war in our neighbourhood and the misguided sanctions policy. The crisis is extremely severe for the economy and for the population, so I think it is important that the government in this difficult situation gives Hungarian people and economic operators all the help that will relieve their financial burden. The economic protection action plan announced on 19 June also serves this purpose, resulting in the entry into force of a price ceiling in certain sectors as of July and the temporary expansion of the Széchenyi-rest card system as of 1 August. As regards SZÉP cards, on the one hand, the government decided that between 1 August and 31 December 2023 the amounts available on cards could be used to buy cold food. On the other hand, in the period from 1 August to 31 December 2023, employers may refer to SZÉP cards for a single amount of up to HUF 200 thousand in addition to the current framework. As a result, in 2023 the amount of employee recognition with a very favourable tax and contribution payment will increase to HUF 650 thousand. As a combined effect of the two decisions, families can spend more money and more resources on food purchases, which, taking into account the five months involved, will help them in particular at the start of the autumn school and when shopping for Christmas. It is also a great relief in the use that, starting on 9 January, all incoming references to SZÉP cards appear in one pocket, i.e. in a consolidated account. Dear Secretary of State, The expected positive experience of the measure is projected to be that the government's previous similar decision, the possibility of translating the amounts on the SZÉP card for the purchase of food, found a very favourable reception among the population during the period 1 February 2022 to 1 July 2022. I therefore ask the honourable Secretary of State how government decisions on the SZÉP card can help the economy to recover. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State.
u2023-07-03-187	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Deputy Minister János Fónagy, State Secretary. Here you go. You have the floor.
u2023-07-03-188	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The prolonged war and the wrong sanctions have caused extreme damage throughout Europe, thus endangering the standard of living, livelihood and jobs of families in our country as well. In this difficult situation, our task is to avoid recession, to protect jobs, to preserve the stability and competitiveness of businesses, for which the government has adopted an economic protection action plan. We are determined to reduce inflation to one digit by the end of the year, and we have taken and taken the necessary measures to this end. [[19.20]] With family support, protection of tax cuts and pensions, reduced prices and wage increases, the government helps Hungarian people. In order to reduce the rise in food prices due to the increase in prices, the government announced mandatory shop operations, and the online price monitoring system started from 1 July yesterday. Mandatory action works well, it's done its part. Business networks are now bidding on each other to announce discounts. Action contributes effectively to enhancing competition in the market, reducing inflation and protecting families. In addition to the measures listed, electricity caps will be put in place in some sectors from July, pharmaceutical companies can write down half of their extra profit and temporarily expand, as you indicated in your question, the Széchenyi Resting Card system. According to the decision, between 1 August and 31 December 23, employers can refer to the Széchenyi Resting Card for a one-off amount of up to HUF 200,000, which is a non-wage allowance. The measure will increase the amount of employee recognition with a very favourable tax and contribution payment to HUF 650 thousand in 2023. The aid also covers the possibility of purchasing cold food again with the SZÉP card from 1 August to 31 December. This option also covers the amounts already committed and the amounts transferred under the new envelope in the shops that have been contracted by the SZÉP card issuers. The government must use all the means to boost the economy so that we can preserve jobs and economic growth. The economic action plan adopted by the government significantly supports the competitiveness and strengthening of businesses. Strengthening the framework of the SZÉP card, expanding its use will increase the purchasing power of families and increase consumption, stimulate investment, help the food industry and ultimately contribute to GDP growth. Thank you, fellow Members, for your attention, to the question. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-07-03-189	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. I will ask Mr László Földi to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2023-07-03-190	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply and I accept it. More than that, as an individual representative, I meet a lot of people, I meet the leaders of many smaller and larger companies, and I experience the beneficial effects of the economic action plan on the one hand and the beneficial effects of the increased amount of the SZÉP card on the other. This is good for both sides: it is good for the entrepreneur and good for the user, as the entrepreneur is much less burdened, less tax burden, and so on. We also have experience of mandatory action at the Pest county ends, as this really has a very good effect on shopping, as it is cheaper for customers to obtain certain goods, and they can do this precisely in relation to the SZÉP card. So I consider both the economic action plan and the increase in the amount of the SZÉP card to be very positive, and this deserves serious recognition among the population as well.
u2023-07-03-191	Thank you very much, Congressman. The congressman accepted the Secretary of State's answer. Dear Parliament, Lot. Congresswoman Erzsébet Németh, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance:. Why? It's an address. Lot. Congresswoman Erzsébet Németh has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-07-03-192	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I assume that Minister of State Tállai will respond to my interpellation, as I have done every time I ask such a question to Minister for Finance Mihály Varga. So, Mr Secretary of State, due to inflation in Orbán, the tragic decline in the masses of pensioners is already apparent, perhaps you have met him if he has been in the market or in the food business recently. He noticed that some people dare to ask for only a few slices of meat at the meat shop, or think twice about how much vegetables or fruits to buy, so as not to cost too much. This is the reality of pensioners now, after a decent life. Tell me, Secretary of State, can you still look them in the eye, knowing that you've caused them all their troubles, and that you have no intention of making their lives easier? The only sign of hope for pensioners so far was that they could get some pension supplements during the year, which might make their daily life a little easier. That was the hope that Gergely Gulyás broke recently in one of the government briefings when he mentioned that until November this year there was hardly any new pension correction. I did not use the word "supplied" for a reason, because, incidentally, a journalist's question was able to extract the truth from the minister. So, let alone a pension correction, you can't expect a single honest word from the pensioners. In addition, Gergely Gulyás's words suggested that the pension supplement was not even certain to arrive in November. This was justified by the fact that, according to their calculations, inflation would have decreased by then and, according to the law, the interim pension increase would only be due if there were grounds for it. I have no doubt that you will ensure that there is no such cause. Over the past six months, despite promises, inflation in Orbán has virtually decreased, and price increases have continued. However, I am sure that this will not be enough for you: inflation figures will be cosmetics, poverty will be undermined and everything else will be blamed on Brussels. If you were to count the reality, the brutal rate of price increases, the poverty, not just in November, but right now. After all, whatever the situation is in six months' time, the elderly are in need, they're starving, they can't buy medicine now, they have to count their forints, they need to raise their pension right now, not in November, or who knows when. So I ask Mr State Secretary why pensioners do not get an immediate pension correction when their pensions are getting less and less due to inflation in Orbán. Why wait till November? And allow me, Mr Secretary, I have asked you this question at least ten times this six-month period, and I would be honoured if you would now give me a fair, fair answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-07-03-193	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The Member also mentioned that the answer will be given by Deputy Minister András Tállai, State Secretary. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-07-03-194	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As you said, the weekly question has been asked, so the weekly answer will be given. [[Moraj in the ranks of opposition parties.]] Which is going to be based on fact, and for your sake, I'm not going to change the facts because you don't like to hear it. By the way, I go to the store, too, and I meet pensioners. It is true that the situation is not easy for anyone because of inflation. But you know what pensioners say? They prefer to bear the more expensive bread, the more expensive goods, only their children, their grandchildren, do not go to war. [[Rise and shine in the ranks of opposition parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] If it were up to you, we'd be pretty close to having our children go to war. Let's get back to pensions and facts. You said inflation in Orbán three times, so I'm going to tell you at least three times that we've rebuilt the 13th month pension. Even if you don't think it's part of the pension calculation, it's still a 8.3 percent increase a year, and don't tell me you're not counting on the pension because you can go to the market and the business for the 13th month's pension. But by the way, all the other pension increases will cover the planned inflation. At the beginning of this year, it was 15 percent. By 2024 we plan to spend HUF 6540 billion on pensions in the budget. Do you know how much that was in 2010 when you were in government? $2,750 billion. This increased by 120 percent, spending on retirement benefits. [[19.30]] The government has promised to increase pensions at least every year with inflation, and thank God, in addition to the inflation increase, we have been able to rebuild the 13th month pension during the 13 years of governance in recent years. By the way, the pension system, the preservation of pensions and the follow-up to inflation, is guaranteed by the law itself, which was created by the Fidesz government, the Parliament, after 2010. This means that in January, the rate of increase in pensions should be equal to the planned inflation, and if the government sees that inflation is changing during the year, the increase in pensions should be paid retroactively. This has happened in the last year, and we have not even returned inflation after eight months in the last year, but even before that, there has been a pension increase in July. By the way, inflation peaked in spring of this year and in May it was already 0.4 percent lower than in the previous month. As has already been said in Parliament today, several measures have been taken by the government, so there are actions in the shops, 10 per cent minimum, 15 per cent from August, and the online price monitoring system has also been introduced. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The Fidesz government has promised to protect pensioners in difficult times, and they will receive a pension increase when the economy goes better. So we are glad that the 13th month pension was also returned, which means HUF 370 billion in 2022 and HUF 460 billion in 2023 for pensioners. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-07-03-195	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. I'll ask Gy. Congresswoman Erzsébet Németh accepts the Secretary of State's reply.
u2023-07-03-196	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, I do not accept and allow me, Mr Secretary of State, that this is the Hungarian Parliament, not RTL Club Weekly. So I understand that you think it's a weekly question, a weekly answer, but this isn't. I wanted you to give me a fair, fair answer. My second point is, you've given me a 13th month pension twice, and the governments before 2010 look at me, Mr. Secretary of State. They've given me 13 months' pension seven times. [[Tamás Menczer: You have bankrupted the country.]] I would also like to say to you that if you had really respected me, even if Congressman Menczer, Mr Secretary of State, did not like what I am saying, but I would say that in 2010, the average pension was 77 percent of the average wage, but today the average pension is just 50 percent of the average wage. I would like to say one more thing: Mr Secretary, if they had complied with their own laws, the average pension today would not be 208 thousand forints, but 264 thousand forints. And last thing I said, you guys made a correction in July when inflation in May 22 was only 10 percent. Now it's more than 20 percent six months ago, because I'm sure that's what it was in June, and they're not going to correct me. That is unacceptable, Minister. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2023-07-03-197	Thank you very much. Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Now it's 7:33 p.m., we've reached the end of the interpellations, and the questions are now 40 minutes away. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Olga Kálmán, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister for Culture and Innovation:. Why? It's an address. Congresswoman Kálmán Olga has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-07-03-198	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Who will answer, I suppose. From thousands and thousands of holes Viktor Orbán's courtship drains the state register, the Hungarians' money, and the hordes of false civilians, false intellects and dreamers who faithfully serve the system. The reward of the political service of the Orbánist cultural warriors is that they can throw history forgery, fidesz distasteful, right-wing, lying to culture, into the Hungarians' necks with Hungarian money for more and more billions. The Corvin chain, a dictator repulsing Hungary into the world war, founded by Miklós Horthy, and then re-launched by Viktor Orbán, was a reward for artists and scientists supporting the system. Today, there is a HUF 6 billion villa for the award-winning body. Now it is time for Viktor Orbán to distribute the rewards for party service in the theatre sphere. The Ministry of Culture and Innovation spent 6 billion HUF on the systematic theatres and companies of Attila Vidnyánszky and his friends. About 1,000 of 1,400 applications were thrown back, just those who do not belong in orbánist circles. I went to the Ministry with a public request for data to find out who and on what basis they had decided. The answer was that Minister János Csák was in one person, according to cultural policy goals. The outsiders, independent theaters suffering from inflation in Orbán and increased overhead, are today the last resorts of Hungarian culture, who are not in service of the system, but in artistic expression of truth. How can Béla Pintér and his company, who play with constantly full houses, not receive a penny of support from this framework? I ask, then, Minister or Secretary of State, why have independent theatres and companies been excluded from cultural support? Thank you. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2023-07-03-199	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Deputy Minister, Secretary of State, Eszter Vitalyos. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-07-03-200	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In this speech, you did nothing but question the decision and value of Hungarian society. During the last four parliamentary electoral periods, voters have put faith in the thousand-year tradition of our country, along with the Christian-Conservative values, whether you like it or not. Let's see what exactly you're making out to be worthless and disparaging. Let's start with the Hungarian Corvin Chain Corps. You are reviling the work of an organization in a subpar style whose award winners include Ernő Dohnányi, Sándor Korányi, Ferenc Herczeg or Magda Szabó, but I could say that Ede Teller is a physicist. [[Kálmán Olga: Do they want the billionaire fork?]] And then you came in 2002, and you took one move to shut down the board. I'm asking you, is the life's work of the above-listed creators no longer fit into the liberal left-wing values? The Government of Hungary is world champion in supporting the operation of many cultural institutions in some form. There is no such thing anywhere in the world, dear Congresswoman, to this extent. There aren't that many rock theatres or symphony bands per person anywhere. I'd like to inform you that the theatres are open for competitions. State aid of HUF 830 million supports non-qualified performing art organizations. Here 191 applications were submitted, 148 organisations received support from 189 valid applications, and the company you mentioned received this support. So your slanders are baseless. The decision-making process is supported by a professional board, the evaluation criteria are available and included in the call for proposals. The person who said subjective value judgment here, you, Congresswoman, insulted, disdained, degraded, degraded the Corvin-chain winners, called Hungarian artists and scientists dreamers. I know that the word "Hungarian" doesn't mean much to you, but I do have some good advice for you: don't do this. Don't insult him, don't look down on Hungarian artists or scientists just because they think differently about the world than you do. Or is that out of your liberal left-wing mind? [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-07-03-201	Thank you very much. Dear House, Congressman Miklós Hajnal, representative of Momentum, would you like to ask the Minister of Construction and Transport a question: "Do the mountain people expect to install another green area? It's an address. Congressman Miklós Dawn has the floor. Here you go. [[19.40]]
u2023-07-03-202	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, If there is a case that provokes outrage in the greenest district of Budapest, regardless of the political side, it is the continuous integration of the district with residential parks. The people here had to become a daily experience of the crying of construction vehicles on narrow mountain streets, cranes from the forest, and dust and noise from machines. What is not new is that the municipality has given green lights to real estate investors in recent years: the district building regulations have been amended to significantly increase the capacity of several areas. Most recently, Konkoly-Thege Miklós út 19/B. In addition, some investors plan to build a residential park with 78 apartments in the Natura 2000 area. As with previous installations, this project is bleeding from a number of wounds, just to mention a few: the area is part of the ecological network of the European Union, the habitat of protected fauna and flora is threatened by installation, and the roads in the area are not suitable for construction vehicles and for increasing traffic. However, even though the Duna-Ipoly National Park Directorate has repeatedly indicated environmental risks, despite the protests made by residents in the area, the investment is still planned. A few weeks ago, a Wednesday morning, a rather scandalous public hearing was held on the project, which took place in the middle of working hours, on which it was impossible for many to resolve for understandable reasons. The mountain municipality made it extremely difficult for the district residents to take part in the appointment, and no one appeared on the part of the municipality during the public hearing. The fate of the green area on Konkoly-Thege Road is currently in the hands of the Government Office of Pest Vármegyei, and it is up to them to grant permissions for the project. Given that the subject matter concerned falls within the remit and competence of the Minister for Construction and Transport, I am asking the Secretary of State what the fate of this environmental area will be and continuing the further integration of upland green areas with residential parks. Thank you in advance for your reply. [[Applause from the opposition ranks.]]
u2023-07-03-203	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Deputy Minister Nándor Csepreghy, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2023-07-03-204	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Allow me, on behalf of Minister János Lázár, to express my thanks for the opportunity to speak, although you are asking about a matter that the Ministry of Construction and Transport thinks falls much more within the competence of other political and administrative forums, such as the XII. district government and the environmental department of the competent government office. The Ministry's position on this issue is no different from that of any other investment, so the local interest, the protection of the environment in a broader sense and the interest of the owner must be common to each other. As of February 2020, you were a representative of the municipality of the district concerned earlier, so you are also aware that in the area you are now in fear, only what is in line with the settlement planning plans of the municipality, i.e. the local body, which must be approved by the municipality. So I ask you: if you really consider this to be an important issue and want to prevent this investment in order to protect the environment and the people who live there today, why didn't you act accordingly at your previous job in the municipality? Why didn't you speak once at the meetings of the body of representatives in relation to the area concerned? We looked back at the records on this, and we couldn't find a reference to it once. I also ask why the area mentioned in the question should not remain in the institutional mixed-built zone intended for installation, but should it be prohibited to build anything in that case? Since the above did not happen, you did not reach the Board's reclassification as a representative, so today the case is really in front of the competent department of the Pest County Government Office. The Government Office must take a decision before the building permit, and since the procedure is currently being suspended, I ask the Member, as elected MP in the region, that, if it is really important for the public interest, which you mention on the issues, he should do his job and support the creation of a local regulation that serves the interests of the people who live there more than at present. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-07-03-205	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister for Construction and Transport:. When will the construction of battery factories be made available for the launch of a referendum? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and By answering this question, the Prime Minister has appointed Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, who will be asked to give you the answer by Minister of State Tamás Menczer. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-07-03-206	Thank you very much. Dear House, Near Komárom-Esztergom County Ács is a Chinese cathode factory that will deliver to battery factories. What the carpenters could expect from this cathode maker, unfortunately, we now felt it on our own: at the battery factory in Komárom, just a few kilometres away, more people were sick, and 14 people had to be taken to the hospital; even the government office that controlled the battery processor in the Bátony area was sick; dozens of people in the building battery factory in Iváncsa were sick from an inhaled unknown substance. Does Fidesz really think that money is worth more than the health and safety of Hungarian people? Is nothing really expensive for you? ! Moreover, the investment company will be the first European plant to build on Ács, without any European references. The gravity of the situation is indicated by the fact that one of the eight members of the carpentry assembly resigned earlier and five have just resigned; they have resigned because they did not want to add their name to the Chinese roulette, in which the health of the people is at stake, and where the mayor refused to show a copy of the property. Well, that's interesting, too, because when the note was requested, it was practically not on the wind note. So, I would like to remind you that the Hungarian Socialist Party has already submitted a proposal for a decision on the conditions under which battery factories can be built. By the way, it is 5 km from the center of town; in the case of Tesla, 200 km is the nearest town. So what I can tell you is that not only Carpenter would be affected by this plan, but also Bábolna and Bana, by the way. So we are saying, in any case, that such an investment should be linked to the support of local residents for referendums. You're supposed to like to ask the people, well, now's a good time. Now consult the Fidesz, now we have something to talk about. I hope you will do so by 31 August. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] I would like to ask when the construction of battery factories and the industrial facilities serving them will be bound by a mandatory local referendum. I look forward to your serious answer, not your misconception. Thank you. [[Bence of Turdai applauds.]]
u2023-07-03-207	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. As I said, the answer will be given by Secretary of State Tamás Menczer. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2023-07-03-208	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We have talked a lot about battery production today, and this is such an important topic that I think it is right to talk about it at such a late hour. Although I try to live up to your wishes, I'm not sure I can, I'm not sure that we can appreciate the answer or the subject in the same way. You asked when we would link this to a referendum. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to inform you that in Hungary the rules, possibilities and laws for referendums apply. So if you wish to hold a referendum on any matter, or your party, then you have the opportunity to initiate it, if you comply with the conditions in question; if you do not do so, then there is nothing I can do about it. Of course, I know that the MSZP today could hardly hold a referendum, but it would be difficult to hold a meeting of members or a general assembly. [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks. Dr. Gurmai Zita: Oh, how funny!]] I mean, he's barely a member. So I understand that you expect me to answer all the questions and answer them, but you have the opportunity to act within the law, of course. Now, with regard to batteries and investments, once again in a few sentences, this remaining tight one minute, which we have talked a lot about today. It's not really just about batteries, it's about investments. You are attacking investments, investments that are extremely important for the Hungarian economy, because we can protect our achievements together, i.e. the results of the cooperation between the Hungarian people and the government: family support, 13th month pension, jobs and could be classified in this way. For these investments, there is huge competition worldwide. Here is a list before me, we have talked about this many times, there is a French example here, a Romanian example, a Slovak example, a Polish example, an American example. In America, Ford cooperates with Chinese CATL and South Korean SK, which you are attacking. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] But in America, they're about to build 40. So you're trying to get us to stay out of this race. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] This would be bad for the Hungarian people, we cannot comply with this request. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-07-03-209	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman Róbert Dudás, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister:. What does the government intend to do to curb beach inflation? It's an address. Congressman Róbert Hondas has the floor. Here you go. [[19.50]]
u2023-07-03-210	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I don't know, you know how much it costs to spend a day with a family on Lake Balaton today. There are products whose prices have increased by 50 percent over the past year and a half, and some have risen by 100 percent. If you go to Lake Balaton with a family, two adults with two children, you can have lunch with approximately 20,000 forints. If even a little ice cream can be included because it shouldn't be a luxury, then they're about 25 thousand forints, and then they haven't bought a beach pass, there's no price, there's no travel fee, not to mention the price of the accommodation if they want to sleep there. So I'm not talking about a holiday, I'm talking about just a one - day vacation. We are talking about spending about 40,000 forints a day there for a family at Lake Balaton on a beach. We got to the point where it's a luxury for people. I am not talking about a foreign flight and a weekend or week spent in a luxury hotel, but just a weekend at the Hungarian sea or even a few days. Unfortunately, 70 percent of Hungarian families cannot afford to plan vacations and rests this summer, Mr. State Secretary. I think we can say that both children and parents need rest. Otherwise, the economy also needs a rested worker, as it will be able to get back to work properly, but this is not guaranteed. Parents take time off, fuel is expensive, ice cream is expensive, food is expensive, they don't even go away so they don't have to say no to their children. That's not how it works in a normal country. In a normal country there are normal prices and normal wages. What would you like to do, Mr. Secretary, to ensure that not only the narrow 30% of you get rest, but all 100 percent? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2023-07-03-211	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard from Deputy Minister Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-07-03-212	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, You show that Hungarians can no longer afford to go on a domestic holiday, but they used to be much more likely to do so. I suggest we look at the numbers. These show that in the first five months of this year nearly 2 million guests spent 4 million 400,000 guest nights in Hungary. At the beginning of the government, 1 million 275 thousand domestic guests spent 2 million 715 thousand guest nights, so we're almost there that twice as many guests can spend almost twice as much time on vacation in the country. That's what the numbers show. And if you only look at Lake Balaton: last year's statistics are available from last year at 38 percent more guests than our big lake in 2021, 75 percent of guest nights are connected to domestic tourists. As far as prices are concerned, it is worth clarifying that breaking inflation is one of the most important government tasks. This is the case even if inflation is not because of the Hungarian government in the whole of Europe. That's why the government announced price-stops, which is why they're obliging the shops to take action, that's why we decided on interest-stops, so we decided on targeted wage increases, which is why we decided not to keep the income tax at the level you want, but at a lower level. I'm also saying this because if there's more left in people's wallets, they'll have more opportunities for vacations or anything else. Targeted improvements will also improve opportunities. Under the Kisfaludy programme 339 investments were supported in 140 open water bathing areas in 73 settlements, and only 42 free beaches were supported at Lake Balaton. We also think of those who, for whatever reason, do not have the opportunity to vacation from their own resources. That's why it's important to have 180,000 vacations in Elizabeth camps. That's ten times the number of 2012. And I would like to add one more thing to what I have to say. We can do the best we can against any inflation by achieving peace at last, because nothing would alleviate what you call beach inflation or any other inflation than if peace negotiations were to follow. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-07-03-213	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member István Szabadi, representative of Mi Hazank, would like to ask the Minister of the Interior a question: why is the membership of the Chamber of Professionals and Pharmacies still compulsory? It's an address. Congressman István Szabadi has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-07-03-214	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear House, At the end of February, Mi Hazank Movement supported the abolition of compulsory medical chamber membership by abolishing the mandatory nature of membership in the case of the Hungarian Medical Association and the Hungarian Pharmacy Association. However, this has not taken place to this day. In our view, membership of a professional organisation should be decided on a voluntary basis, because membership does not entail little obligation. The 2006 XCVII on professional chambers in healthcare. It covers all three chambers of law, but from March this year it only provides for compulsory chamber membership for health professionals and pharmacists, which discriminates against doctors. Medical activities can only be carried out by chamber members, i.e. membership is an essential condition for operating licences and work. That's exactly what the doctors were acquitted of. I ask you, do you intend to relieve health professionals and pharmacists of this burden? In 2023, the employees have to pay HUF 18 096 and the pharmacists have to pay a membership fee of HUF 34,000, which causes a heavy financial burden compared to the unfairly low salary. In order to extend the operating licence that expires every five years, training courses are required, but only part of them are provided free of charge by the Chamber. In particular, the content of theoretical training is repeated year after year. These could also be kept online, which would be cheaper and would not be so busy with the employee's spare time. The Hungarian Health Professionals Chamber has approximately 120,000 members, but according to our information, eight out of ten students would not remain members if they were not obliged to do so. I would like to ask you, Mr Secretary of State, for your answer on why, like doctors, the compulsory membership of the chamber of professionals and pharmacists is not being abolished, why they want unnecessary extra burdens for them. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-07-03-215	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-07-03-216	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The Hungarian government is basically seeking partnership with the Chambers, and we want both the government and the Chambers to work for membership, so we have tried to help their situation as much as possible in recent years. At the same time, you saw that this year, the Hungarian Medical Chamber started threatening doctors with the introduction of the new on-call system by launching an ethical procedure against them, starting proceedings against them in Hungarian, which may end up banning them for the rest of their lives or refusing to allow them to practice their medical profession if they take medical care on afternoons, evenings and weekends in the primary care care service organised by the Rescue Service. Obviously, patients have an interest in being treated on-call, and the chamber has obviously abused its power. It is not because of compulsory chamber membership, which means that the only way to practice the profession is to be a member of the Chamber, it is not to be then used for political purposes by the Chamber, and it is to try to prevent doctors who want to heal in on-call time from curing. More specifically, that's what he's trying to do and stop them from curing me. That's why Parliament decided to do so. But since then, we've been trying to keep a close relationship with the Chamber as close as possible. They go to the Ministry of the Interior a lot of times. In the last two weeks, I've met with the head of the chamber, and we've discussed the current issues. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] On the basis of the agreement concluded on 8 June 2016, the professional chamber membership fee was accepted by the State, so the State paid the membership fee instead of the workers, and we also sought to raise the wages at the same time. You know that from Saturday, 1 July, there will be an 18-percent increase in the salary of the workers, as well as in hospitals and other health care workers. This semester, we spend a total surplus of HUF 50 billion on these, which means that next year it will be HUF 100 billion if I project it for the entire year and continue next year, next March, to raise the wages of the workers. The 18 per cent increase in the employee's salary affects 84 thousand health professionals, and the increase also covers 24,000 additional workers. This means that while a secondary-level graduate earned a basic salary of HUF 91 thousand in 2010, now she earned HUF 401 thousand and a 20-year employee earned HUF 106 thousand, and from Saturday onwards she earned HUF 460,000. Thank you very much for your patience. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-07-03-217	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Rebecca Szabó and Bence Tordai, representatives of the Dialogue, would like to ask the Minister of Energy a question, "Why does it increase the production of plastic waste, or what interests lie behind the tailor-made EPR prize? It's an address. Congressman Bence of Turdai has the floor. [[20.00]]
u2023-07-03-218	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The newly introduced EPR, i.e. extended producer liability tariff, was published by the Government in the Hungarian Gazette on 2 June. Although the introduction of EPR fees is an EU obligation, Member States have a significant margin of discretion in determining the level of fees. This is why it is a surprise to both industry players and waste-based civilian experts that they have to expect Europe's highest and extremely disproportionate tariffs compared to each other. At the beginning of June, the Association of Responsible Food Manufacturers and then the National Association of Packaging and Materials Movement drew attention to the increase resulting from the introduction of such a waste charge, and they set the inflation impact of the measure at 3 per cent. This is a rather drastic step on the part of the government, especially in a situation where the government is allegedly trying to break down the inflation of the European record in Orbán. Of course, the Dialogue-Greens are not calling for a reduction in tariffs for environmentally harmful packaging, but we already consider it a serious problem that while the previous product fee has made three times the difference between plastic and paper packaging to encourage the latter, the new tariffs are hardly different for the two packaging materials, thus benefiting the government from the polluting plastic lobby. To illustrate the problem in numerical terms: in Belgium, for example, the EPR fee for paper is EUR 22 per tonne, in Hungary it is EUR 468. In other countries, paper and plastic are 20 times the multiplier to encourage paper, while in Hungary the difference is only 20 percent. Dear Secretary of State, Is the fact that MOL, the beneficiary of the EPR prizes through its subsidiary, happens to be interested in the production of plastics? Is it not that, in the future, the MOL Group is increasingly turning to petrochemicals to compensate for the declining consumption of petrol and diesel, to dispose of more plastic waste, and to serve this polluting strategy through its foundations? I look forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2023-07-03-219	Thank you very much, Congressman Bence of Tordai. I give the floor to Secretary of State Zsófia Koncz.
u2023-07-03-220	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Disappointment, disappointment, disappointment came to my mind, and I am sorry while I listened to your speech, because in this case it is a question of promoting a circular economy and sustainability. And allow me to bring you two quotes. The first one goes as follows:. In these cases, the product fee will be increased up to 20 times, which may act as a massive incentive for traders to replace the product. The second is:. The Hungarian society must be prepared for a sustainable lifestyle, a sustainable social and economic operation that guarantees that life can be lived here in the Carpathian Basin for decades and centuries. I hope you agree with the sentences quoted, the first one comes from an 2021 interview with single-use plastics, including plastic bags, and the second one was just three weeks ago here in the Parliament, and both quotes came from Congressman Tordai. Honourable Congressman, You criticized the EPR award, while in 2021 it was considered a good idea and even an incentive to raise the product fee. [[Bence of Turda: Rates!]] In the debate on next year's budget, sustainability was recommended to the government. The new waste management system introduced last Saturday, part of which is the extended producer responsibility introduced in Brussels, serves sustainability, while the public's reduced waste costs remain. The aim is to make less and less used products in our country waste and to make more and more use of the resulting waste. While you are proud to proclaim that you are in favour of protecting the environment [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Neither the Law on Circular Economy Legislative Amendments or Waste Management (The President bells) concerning the specific issue. Convenient Act (The President bell rings.) Nor the national environmental programme (the president bell rings) have not been voted or abstained... [[Bence of Turda: Because they're bad! Because they're bad!]]
u2023-07-03-221	Thank you very much.
u2023-07-03-222	I ask the congressman that in these matters...
u2023-07-03-223	Thank you very much.
u2023-07-03-224	...to support the government's vision. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-07-03-225	Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Foreign Minister:. Instead of the economic interests of China, should we not represent the interests of our fellow countrymen? It's an address. Congressman Antal Csárdi has the floor.
u2023-07-03-226	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, You always say with great confidence that there is nothing to see here, everything has been examined and everything is super-secure. Then reality arrives, and the mountain falls on the crackheads because of the mine, people have to be taken to the hospital from battery factories, and they show severe pollution or carcinogens in the wells in Göd. Your latest wonderful idea, according to press reports, is to finally make Hungary a chemical distribution centre. In practice, this means that China will transport a significant part of its production of chemicals to Europe by rail to Hungary to supply the entire continent from the distribution centres to be established here, i.e. to transport toxins through the country by rail. The system is not even closed, as the distribution centres need to distribute hazardous chemicals, which is a huge risk. According to press reports, the center of this is planned for Soroksár, but it may be somewhere else, that is, within Budapest, where families live in the immediate vicinity of the planned establishment. But if the train starts, then I think that we can all start worrying, because at the end of last year, you can remember it, too, was derailed by an ammonia train in Serbia, 15 people had to be hospitalized for poisoning. Dear Secretary of State, Mr. Secretary of State! Will you personally take responsibility if you start leaking and puffing poison on Hungarian people by a chemical distribution centre, a warehouse or a wagon carrying chemicals? What were they thinking? [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] That they're gonna make the capital and the whole country a cesspool in China? (The President rang.) And he didn't think that people should be informed first (the president bell rings). Before such a plan? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause in the dialogue.]]
u2023-07-03-227	Thank you very much, Congressman Csárdi. The question will be answered by Secretary of State Tamás Menczer.
u2023-07-03-228	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I don't know if he was here in Parliament earlier on the sitting day; maybe he wasn't here; or he was here and he wasn't listening; or maybe there was too much information to be received. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] But I have the honour to draw your attention to the fact that the Prime Minister answered this question a few hours ago, and I think that according to the rules of interpretation of the Hungarian language it is relatively clear, and he said that there is no need to worry, because there is no such case or decision that you have spoken about. This is the first thing I'd like to draw your attention to. [[Antal Csárdi intervenes.]] The second is that the subject was given by the Hungarian government representing Chinese economic interests. Honourable Member, regarding who represents whom, who represents what interests, there is a slight misunderstanding: we do not represent foreign interests [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] It's you. Didn't they fill us with cash from abroad? [[Bence of Turdai: Rubel!]] But you, Congressman, you've been bought a kilo, and there's been a misunderstanding. You represent foreign interests [[Antal Csárdi intervenes.]] [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] It's you. They didn't fill us with money from abroad (Bence of Turdai: Rubel!) But you, Congressman, you've been bought a kilo, so there's been a misunderstanding. You represent foreign interests [[Antal Csárdi intervenes.]] [[Antal Csárdi intervenes.]] "We must protect the country and the interests of Hungary against you. And by the way, this is very well demonstrated by the fact that you call yourselves the Green Party; what kind of green party is it against electromobility? (Bence of Turdai interrupts.) At global level, the transport sector accounts for 14 percent of emissions, and this amount of pollutants can be reduced if electromobility gains ground (Antal Csárdi intervenes). If electromobility moves forward, and you need a battery factory to do that, because the electric car, however surprising, works with a battery. (Antal Csárdi intervenes. ) That's what you're gonna do. What kind of green couple is that? Well, obviously you're a green couple filled with money from abroad, and your excellent colleagues at Jobbik, for example, just to give you another example, the president of Jobbik once wanted to list the Jews, and today he's going on a seder night with the American ambassador in Budapest. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: What does this have to do with anything?! Antal Csárdi intervenes.]] That's the kind of thing they do. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] who have been loaded with money from abroad, honourable Member. (The President rang.) We can't meet your demands. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Antal Csárdi applauds.]]
u2023-07-03-229	Thank you, Secretary of State, Tamás Menczer. Dear Parliament, Tamás Herczeg, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Construction and Transport:. When will the end of the M44 motorway between Lakitelek and the M5 motorway be completed? It's an address. Mr Tamás Herczeg has the floor. [[20.10]]
u2023-07-03-230	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, We're happy with all the signposts that show that the M44 expressway is increasing, but the real milestone for us will be when the last two sections between Lakitelek and Kecskemét are completed. The availability of a settlement, a county, is extremely important for its visibility; it is extremely important, if you look at the tourist aspects, or if you look at the ability to attract capital. We have plenty to do if we want Békés County to catch up with the national average, whether in terms of per capita income or in terms of increasing national income or in terms of the amount of capital invested. The good news is that line 120 will become two tracks between Békéscsaba and Lőkösháza. It is also good news that the government has not abandoned airport development, but our most important direct goal now is that the two-track motorway between Békéscsaba and Budapest will finally be completed; thus Békéscsaba, Békés county, will finally join the entire national motorway network; thus, road safety will be improved. Those who live in the five settlements between Békéscsaba and Kecskemét had to endure a great deal of traffic every day because that section of the M44 was not completed, they feel the benefit of it. In terms of road safety, environmental protection, speed, we feel the eighty or a few kilometers that have been completed, but the really important question is when the entire section of the road will be ready. Therefore, I respectfully ask Mr Secretary of State when the date for the final two stages is due. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-07-03-231	Thank you, Congressman Tamás Herczeg. I give the floor to the Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy.
u2023-07-03-232	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Allow me, on behalf of Minister János Lázár and the Government, first of all, to congratulate Békéscsaba and you on last week's exhibition hall. Békéscsaba has made a lot of progress in recent years, partly thanks to you. As you, Congressman, and the general public of the Parliament know, today the country has a country-friendly government, as by 2022 some 20 county-righted cities can be reached by express traffic, twice by two lanes. This was a dream for rural Hungary. This dream, I think, has been fulfilled, and we will go further in this regard, because the interoperability of the countryside, the cheap and efficient provision of people's mobility, is a priority objective for the government and thus also for the Minister of Construction and Transport. Thanks to our spending 4,000 billion forints in the last 12 years to build and renovate new roads, we have been able to implement 703 kilometers of new motorways and renovate some 6560 kilometers of main and side roads. As far as M44-M5 is concerned, the project is divided into two parts: on the one hand, between a Lakitelek-Saint King and on the other hand, between a Szentkirály-M5 motorway. I can give Mr President the good news that both investments are being carried out. The section between the Lakitelek-Szentkirály can be completed by the beginning of 2024 and the section between Szentkirály-M5 can be completed by the second quarter of 25th; this means a total investment of HUF 181 billion. In addition, road 44 is being renovated in addition to the M44 development, with which Kecskemét's accessibility will be improved either to Békéscsaba or to the passing audience of the capital. I can therefore answer Mr President's question that by the summer of 2025 the journey time between the capital city and Békéscsaba may be reduced from the current 2:45 to 2:00 to 2:00 to 15 minutes. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-07-03-233	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy. Dear Parliament, Hajnalka Juhász, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, wants to ask the Minister for Culture and Innovation:. What measures does the Government plan in the field of innovation? It's an address. Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász has the floor.
u2023-07-03-234	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, In order for Hungarian universities and related research networks to be synonymous with quality everywhere, we have done much in recent years. The international competitiveness of Hungarian R &amp; D and higher education has been improved by the transformation of scientific research and higher education systems in recent years. This was very necessary, as Hungary was relatively behind even its direct regional competitors in terms of growth based on knowledge and innovation during the period of left-wing governance. This is well indicated by the fact that, in the 10-15 years before and then, in essence, the change in the regime has stagnated in one place, the proportion of R &amp; D expenditure in relation to GDP was around 1 per cent. The Parliament recently adopted a bill amending certain laws necessary to facilitate the economic exploitation of innovation and scientific results. During the debate on the bill, it was said that the government's aim was to bring Hungary to the top 25 in the world by 2030 and to bring Hungary to the top 10 innovators in the world by 2040, so that innovative technology solutions could facilitate life for Hungarians and create high value added jobs. According to the Global Innovation Index, in which all the countries of the world are present, Hungary is currently ranked 34th, and the world ranking of GDP per capita is 49th. We could be satisfied with this, but KDNP agrees with the government's goal of being even better, even more effective. The science and innovation policy mission is to help market products and services from innovative ideas, which, however,: [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] make life easier for the Hungarians... I apologize. In view of the above, I would like to ask what measures the Government intends to pursue. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-07-03-235	Thank you very much, Dawn Juhász. I give the floor to the secretary of state, Eszter Vitalyos.
u2023-07-03-236	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Indeed, the government's aim is to be among the top 10 innovators in the world by 2040, and I agree, as Congresswoman said, that there is potential for this in the Hungarian innovation system. In order to achieve these objectives, it is crucial to strengthen the business potential of knowledge created in universities and research institutes. This is why we have defined the link between universities and the economy as one of the key strategic objectives of the Ministry of Culture and Innovation. To do this, we have created a complex package of nine points called the John von Neumann programme, the content of which I would like to briefly describe. We are renovating the Eötvös Loránd Research Network, both in its name and in its management and funding, and we consider it a top priority to attract world-class research groups. We have set up a National Innovation Agency. We support innovative ideas from their birth to market exploitation and support projects through a mentor network. We have identified the focus areas for R &amp; D and innovation resources. These are areas: healthy life, greening, digitalisation and security. In order to further strengthen excellence research, we will establish the Research Excellence Council. Patent filing and maintenance fees are reduced by 75%. We increase the number of doctoral students and encourage the representation of patents in scientific progress. We will facilitate the financing of startups at international and international level by simplifying regulations; we will continue to develop science parks, as we believe that these are crucial areas for linking universities and the economy. And most importantly, they're... [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We also linked the funding framework to the measures, amounting to HUF 79 billion. Thank you very much. Thank you for your patience. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-07-03-237	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Eszter Vitalyos. Dear Parliament, Within the framework of the item on the agenda, the last question will be asked by independent MEP Ferenc Varga to the Minister for Economic Development:. It's an address. It is for Congressman Ferenc Varga.
u2023-07-03-238	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, He who is poor is the poorest, written by Attila József. This may never have been more true than in today's Hungary, when the average income of the poorest people, according to KSH, is barely worth 67 thousand forints. It's barely worth 67,000 forints! Mr. Secretary, what can you buy with that kind of money? How could anyone make a living with that? 67,000 forints! I cannot repeat this number enough; it is so shocking, so painful to think about the misery of these people, what they can go through every day. In their case, it is no longer a burden for them to buy or buy only the most basic food, but that they simply cannot make a living on their income. [[20.20]] Orbán inflation hits the poorest of our countrymen the most, because the price of overhead and basic food is rising the fastest, and the hardest thing to do is to save money on them, because you somehow withdraw food and drink from yourself, but what can you do when you see your child starving and you don't have enough money to give him lunch, Mr. Secretary of State, it's heartbreaking to even imagine. Klara Dobrev's social democratic government wouldn't let that happen. We would do everything in our power to break down inflation in Orbán, so that wages will rise, not prices. Dear Secretary of State, How can they leave the poorest in such poverty? What will happen to them, and how long will they have to endure these price increases? Thank you for your answer. [[Applause from the opposition parties.]]
u2023-07-03-239	Thank you, Congressman Ferenc Varga. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2023-07-03-240	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, Wages in Hungary have been rising for 13 years. Compared to 2010, the minimum wage, the minimum wage for skilled workers, has increased by more than three times. While the minimum wage was 73 500 HUF in 2010, from 1 January 2023 the guaranteed minimum wage rose from 89 500 HUF to 296 400 HUF in the last 13 years. The increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage also increased the amount of other wages and individual family allowances, ged, ged, ged, ged, ged, and student allowances. But the relative income poverty rate and the poverty and exclusion indicators show a better picture in our country than in previous decades. Undoubtedly, there are still poor people in our society, and the relative income poverty rate decreased from 14.1 percent in 2010 to 12.2 percent in 21, based on the latest data. Eurostat's poverty and exclusion rate in 22 was 18.4 percent for Hungary, which has improved by more than 12 percentage points since its first publication in 2015 and is better than the EU average of 21.6. I stress that we had to deal with your economic and social ruins after 2010; as we set the economy on a growing path, the number of poor people decreased by about 1.5 million from 2015 onwards. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity.
u2023-07-03-241	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, János Fónagy. Dear Parliament, We will move on to the next item on the agenda. There is a debate on the report before the final vote and the amendment before the final vote on the public works bill. The government referral is T/3677. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Proposal for an amendment by the Legislative Committee before the final vote T/3677/13. and T/3677/14, before the final vote. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, so I will give the floor to Gábor Törő, the rapporteur of the committee. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-07-03-242	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Deputy Minister, I would like to inform you that T/3677 discussed at its meeting on 29 June 2023. Bill No. 1 on the order of public investment. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 25 votes in favour, 5 votes against and 5 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The aim of the bill on the House's table is to adjust the development to the budget, to put the more for less, to prevent unnecessary or unsustainable investments from taking place. Investments need to be planned and built more rationally and economically sustainable investments should be made in order to achieve long-term energy efficiency and cost optimisation. It is important to emphasise that it will allow for stronger market protection and ensure that environmental aspects and sustainability and operational aspects are implemented throughout the life cycle. On the basis of the draft law, the Government will decide on a new mechanism for public works. The implementation of public works is based on the Public Works Framework Programme, which is based on policy sectoral concepts and sectoral investment plans. In line with the changes made in the legislative procedure, local authorities are not obliged to involve public procurement consultants. In order to ensure coherence, it is necessary to clarify the text of the single proposal in such a way that it meets the requirement of standard clarity, i.e. to have a regulatory content that can be clearly understood by the recipients, and it is therefore necessary to clarify the provision that local and national government budgetary bodies should also be removed from the obligated circles. The new state investment law puts the system of public works on a new footing, creates new opportunities for professionals, and ultimately opens a new chapter in the creation of a stronger Hungary, similar to the most developed countries in the European Union. Given what has been said, I believe that the bill before us should be supported. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-07-03-243	Thank you, Congressman Gábor Törő. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the political groups have 5-5 minutes and the independent Members have a total of 3 minutes. I would like to ask who would like to speak on behalf of the political groups and of the independent Members. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application, so the debate is closed. Decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2024 and the discussion of the draft amending proposal follow. The government referral is T/4254. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, so I will give the floor to Gábor Törő, the rapporteur of the committee.
u2023-07-03-244	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 29 and 30 June 2023, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/4254 on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2024. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 28 votes in favour, 9 votes against and 2 abstentions. [[20.30]] Dear House, This spring again, the government submitted next year's budget, and in parallel this House also discussed the bill on the foundation of the central budget for 2024. The motion before us amends 55 laws, the main objective of which is harmonisation. This package of amendments creates consistency between the budget and the tax laws. The summarised amendment tabled by the Committee on Legislative Affairs contains further amendments, as well as codification and grammar clarifications, of which I would like to highlight two. One is that from 1 January 2024 the National Media and Infocommunications Authority will be given a new function, since a national advertising register will be set up, which will be placed under the authority. I believe that it is extremely important from a municipal point of view that advertising should not be placed on advertising equipment that is not included in the national advertising register. Furthermore, I consider it an important initiative that certain food supplements can only be sold in pharmacies or in highly controlled stores with qualified personnel, since these supplements often contain high doses of vitamins, minerals, which may cause unwanted side effects and health risks. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the proposed legislation, together with the summarised amendment, will ensure the regularity and legality of the budget for 2024, and I therefore ask you to support it with your vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-07-03-245	Thank you, Congressman Gábor Törő. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Péter Benő Banai, if he would like to speak now. [[For signal:]] It says no. In the end, Mr. Secretary of State will have the opportunity. Dear Parliament, The designated Committee on Budgets did not draft a rapporteur. I now give the floor to the Bulgarian ethnic advocate Varga Simeon, rapporteur of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities related to the debate, who describes the first sentences in the language of nationality and then translates them into Hungarian.
u2023-07-03-246	[[???Köszönöm a szót, elnök úr. Уважаеми господин Председател, Уважаеми Народно Събрание, Уважаеми Държавен секретар! Позволете ми да ви поздравя от името на Малцинствената комисия в Унгария и от моето име.???]] Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Allow me to welcome you on behalf of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities and myself. As a spokesperson invited by the Committee, and also as Chairman of the Committee on Nationalities of Hungary's Budget Sub-Committee, allow T/4254 on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2024. I would like to express our committee's position with regard to bill No. I would like to inform the Parliament that, at the meeting of our committee held on 22 June 2023, a detailed debate was held on the basis of the T/4254. For the whole of the bill No 1. No amendments were tabled to this bill, and our committee did not intend to make any further amendments, so the committee did not submit an amendment closing a detailed debate and adopted the report on the detailed debate with 12 unanimous votes in favour. The proposed amendments make the relevant laws simpler and more comprehensible and include amendments that increase Hungary's economic stability and thus also improve the financial security of its citizens. Once again, I would like to stress that a year and a half ago, no one thought that after the pandemic, for our national governments and the institutions they maintain, there would be an even more difficult period of war in our neighbourhood. However, we have seen that if we do not react and consider our budget expenditure, then our achievements so far could be lost. As our country had to respond, we have seen that this is something that we need to respond to in our budget. Although everyone feels the increased expenditure on their skin, in order to preserve and maintain our institutions and our intellectual and cultural values, it is necessary to have a responsible budgetary management. Our national values created so far are worthless if we cannot continue to operate them. We are still counting on government support for both operation and investment. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In Hungary, the 13 nationalities have sought to achieve their goals, and since they have been represented in the Parliament, they have always sought to form a joint opinion together and continue. I think it is important to mention that from 2014 onwards, since nationalities have been represented in the Hungarian Parliament, thanks to the Government of Hungary, ethnic budget subsidies have increased six times, for which we owe thanks. That is why we are asking the Government to provide the necessary budgetary support for operational expenditure on the survival of nationalities in the future. Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your assistance and cooperation with regard to national resources. The Committee of Hungarian Nationalities proposes the bill to be adopted. Благодаря завашето внимание! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-07-03-247	Thank you very much, Mr Varga Simeon. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I'm looking at the screen, waiting for the candidate. [[There's no candidate.]] He is not coming, so the debate is closed, and I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Secretary of State, Péter Banai Benő.
u2023-07-03-248	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I'll be very brief. I thank you for the work that the Honourable Parliament has done. As Mr Gábor Törő said, the motion contains more than 50 legislative proposals, which are directly or indirectly linked to the implementation of the 2024 budget. I would like to confirm that in the difficult economic situation mentioned by Mr Varga Simeon, in the face of challenges, this bill has the same purpose as the proposal for a budget law next year: to defend the results so far. In this spirit, I propose to the Honourable Parliament the adoption of the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-07-03-249	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Péter Banai Benő. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Next up is the 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. Act XXXVI of 2013 on electoral procedure The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Presentation submitted by the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities T/4230. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal is, of course, discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate, and I will therefore give the floor to the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Boglárka Elias.
u2023-07-03-250	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 29 June 2023, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. Act XXXVI of 2013 on electoral procedure T/4230. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 30 votes in favour, with 6 abstentions. Dear Parliament, One of the main aims of the civil government is to ensure that the situation of nationalities living in Hungary is balanced, value-saving and valuable, and that their rights are guaranteed in both the municipal and governmental spheres. Based on the feedback received, the Prime Minister's Office, the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, the Association of National National Governments, the Deputy Commissioner for the Protection of the Rights of Nationalities in Hungary, the National Election Office, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Home Affairs and the professional wallets affected by the amendment were developed jointly. [[20.40]] As a result of the joint work, the Hungarian Committee of Nationalities adopted the proposal at its meeting on 5 June 2023 and then submitted it to the National Assembly. In addition to technical clarifications, the proposal before us aims to ensure consistency between the law on the rights of nationalities and the law on the local governments of Hungary. In this way, we also want to promote the fullest exercise of their rights to self-government and self-determination guaranteed by the Fundamental Law for nationalities. The amendment tabled and adopted by the Legislative Committee contains additional, but mainly text-focusing and legal provisions, as I have already mentioned. Dear House, The proposal has become timely on the basis of experience of law enforcement and feedback from representatives of nationalities. The proposal therefore aims to harmonise legislation in addition to technical clarifications. In view of what has just been said and what has been said in the general debate, I would like to ask you to support the T/4230 before us. Bill No. 1. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-07-03-251	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Elias Boglarka. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Imre Ritter, if he would like to speak now. [[Imre Ritter: Yes.]] Yes, you have the floor, but I remind you, within a 15-minute time frame.
u2023-07-03-252	Thank you. Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrter Herr Staatssekreter! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Allow me to briefly reminisce on the agenda with a little revision of the history of law. LXXVII 1993 Act on the rights of ethnic and ethnic minorities passed by the Parliament thirty years ago, on 7 July 1993, which entered into force on 22 July 1993. By doing so, a unique, exemplary system of national self-governments has been established to promote and promote indigenous nationalities in Europe. On this day, too, we should express our thanks to all the national minority self-governments of all 13 indigenous nationalities in Hungary, the presidents and members, the mayors assisting them, municipal notaries, officials and employees, the staff of government offices and, of course, the specialists and decision-makers of the wallets, who have helped to complete the noble idea of ethnic autonomy in Hungary over the last thirty years. And, of course, on behalf of the 13 indigenous nationalities in Hungary, I would like to thank the Government, Parliament, once again. Allow me, for one thought, to remember the first-way ethnic leaders, presidents and representatives. Sadly, many of them are no longer among us, so let us now salute in thought to their memory as well. We will also do this this autumn with a national minority conference to be held in the Upper House. The first minority born thirty years ago, then its successor, the law on the rights of nationalities has since been enriched with many amendments and clarification. These could be born, had to be born, because our ethnicity presence is growing stronger, and the dynamic development of our cultural, educational and political autonomy practically requires changes in the legal environment as well. The fact that we ourselves, the minority advocates and myself as minority representatives can make these amendments within the framework of the Committee of the Nationalities of the Hungarian Parliament is due to the important event of 10 years this year that the XXXVI of 2013 has been in force since 3 May 2013. Act on the electoral procedure, which ensured the parliamentary representation of the representatives of indigenous nationalities in Hungary. On the basis of the past nine years of parliamentary representation, we can clearly conclude that historical opportunities and results have been brought to the indigenous nationalities living in Hungary, which I thank many times, but also this time. After this brief reflection, allow me to describe as the author T/4230. CLXXIX of 2011 on the rights of nationalities. Act XXXVI of 2013 on electoral procedure Our bill amending the law, more precisely since the parliamentary debate on 16 June 2023. In my closing statement, I said that there was, in particular, one amendment to the bill, on behalf of Mr Ferenc Varga, on the institutional councils, to which I indicated that we would examine and, if appropriate and possible, amend the bill. In particular, educational institutions, including educational institutions operating in the maintenance of national self-governments, are the 2011 CXC on national public education. Law 73. Pursuant to paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Article, a school board or institutional council may be set up, which shall, inter alia, carry out advocacy tasks. The initiative to set up the institutional council can be used, among other things, by local ethnic authorities. In the case of the two institutions, there is a overlap with the organisations authorised to delegate to them. There may be cases where Njtv is a national government. 25. However, there is an institutional council in the school board, which is intended to become a public educational institution, and it is therefore appropriate to seek the opinion of that council in the course of the proceedings. That was the reason why it was Njtv. 25. § 1 (), (2) and () were added and, in addition to the school board, the institutional council was given the same opportunity to comment. We have initiated the procedure of the Legislative Committee for this amendment, which I would also like to thank. I also sincerely hope that the legislative amendment proposal is both codification and, in all other respects, appropriate. At the same time, and with all due respect, I look forward to any comments and opinions on the bill. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit! [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-07-03-253	Thank you very much to the rapporteur, Imre Ritter. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if someone from the government wants to speak. [[Miklós Soltész: No.]] They're signaling no. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to the Members to take part in their speeches within the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I'm looking at the screen, waiting for the candidate. [[No signal.]] No. Therefore, Honourable Parliament, the debate is closed. I'm asking you, someone wants to speak for the government. [[Miklós Soltész: No.]] They're signaling no. I ask Imre Ritter, he wishes to speak. [[Imre Ritter: Yes.]] Yeah. Then I'll listen, and from the 15-minute time frame, six minutes and ten seconds have passed.
u2023-07-03-254	I do not use it; I would just like to thank everyone once again for their work in preparation and at the same time ask Parliament to support and accept our presentation tomorrow, in accordance with previous practice. Thank you very much. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit!
u2023-07-03-255	Thank you very much for the closing thought of Imre Ritter. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the organisation of gambling and electronic administration, as well as the Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws to strengthen the coherence of the legal system, follow up and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. [[20.50]] Government referral T/4027. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I therefore give the floor to Congressman Gábor Törő, rapporteur of the committee.
u2023-07-03-256	[[No sound.]] Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee 2023... [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: No sound!]]
u2023-07-03-257	The microphone...! [[It's ringing.]] Microphone! [[The name of Gábor Törő appears on the display.]] That's good.
u2023-07-03-258	[[With a loudspeaker.]] Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 29 June 2023, the Legislative Committee discussed T/4027 on the modification of certain laws in relation to gambling management and electronic administration and to strengthen the coherence of the legal system. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 25 votes in favour, 7 votes against and 4 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The bill on the House's table is partly administrative in nature, based on practical experience, partly aimed at re-regulation of individual processes and the development of new processes. The amendments to the Law on the Organisation of Gambling aim to bring about regulatory needs in the context of gambling management, with which the legislator intends to strengthen the competitiveness of domestic gambling and, in particular, the competitiveness of remote gambling, bearing in mind its transparency, regulated organisation and the protection of the player. Among other things, this bill is the State Gamblers' Gamblers' Gamblers Zrt., which is the result of the opening of the market. reflects certain regulatory needs identified by the Member State concerned. Other regulatory needs, also indicated by the public gaming organizer, have also been raised in practice, which will further increase the efficiency of gambling management. The proposal also addresses the practical problems encountered by the Supervisory Authority for Controlled Activities with regard to the performance of tasks by the Authority, and the amendments aimed at strengthening the coherence of the rules on gambling at the statutory level. The draft also amends certain accounting, prize base and gaming taxing regulators, including in the context of the creation of detailed rules for other lottery games, and in view of market opening, due to the possibility of expanding the range of remote gambling operators. In line with the need for amendment in the legislative committee procedure, it clarifies the provision for the establishment of a child's home care fee for the relative. In order to reduce the administrative burden on customers and public authorities, the general two-year review obligation for children's home care fees will be lifted. Given what has been said, I believe that the bill before us should be supported. Thank you for your attention.
u2023-07-03-259	Thank you very much, Congressman Gábor Törő. Dear Parliament, Now I'm asking the author, if you'd like to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Then you have the floor, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör.
u2023-07-03-260	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just want to make a brief comment. As already stated in the previous debate, most of the amendments discussed concern gambling regulation. The goal is to be more effective in gaming management and greater gaming experience. The bill was originally used as a scraper's ticket game and not as a remote gambling game. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: Will casinos also tax? The president's ringing the bell.]] I have also listened to you, Congresswoman, but this has finally been removed from the proposal. As it is clear from the title of the bill, the bill also aims at the legal coherence of laws in other areas. These include, inter alia, proposals for procurement procedures at the University of Public Service. The aim is to create a new centralised public procurement and procurement system, backed by the professional background of the university. It is also a change that the proposals also affect the law on the status of military defenders. On this basis, the chief of Honvéd General Staff and the battalion's commanding ensign will be appointed indefinitely in the future. Also, the rules on data records relating to a national defence order are being amended. We believe that, together with these amendments, the bill is worth supporting the ladies and gentlemen of Congress. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-07-03-261	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to the Members to take part in their speeches within the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I'm looking at the screen, waiting for the candidate. [[There's no signal.]] No. Dear Parliament, Then the debate is closed. I'll ask the author if you'd like to comment. [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Next up is the 1993 XLVIII on mining. Act and Act XL of 2008 on the supply of natural gas The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Presentation by István Szilárd Németh, representative of Fidesz T/4251. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. I therefore give the floor to Congressman Tibor Pogácsás, rapporteur of the committee. You have the floor.
u2023-07-03-262	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee discussed the 1993 XLVIII on mining at its meeting on 29 June 2023. Act and Act XL of 2008 on the supply of natural gas T/4251. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 25 votes in favour, 10 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, The aim of the bill before us is to maintain the market stability of LPG. To this end, the authors propose to modify the current system of sales based on public pricing. The draft was substantially amended by the Legislative Committee, in agreement with its authors. The functioning of the LPG market and the enforcement of consumer interests will be ensured by the mining offices acting in the role of the licensing authority, the Hungarian Competition Authority and the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office. I would ask my fellow Members to support this proposal in order to preserve the stability of the LPG market sector. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-07-03-263	Thank you very much, Congressman Tibor Pogácsás. Dear Parliament, Minority opinion of the committee Gy. Congresswoman Erzsébet Németh will tell you. [[21.00]]
u2023-07-03-264	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. As my fellow Member Pogácsás said, the Legislative Committee discussed this bill and, as rapporteur for the committee's minority opinion, I would like to express my shock at the fact that Mr Pogács has now translated the majority opinion of the committee meeting in such a way that it is about the transformation of the official price of LPG gas cylinders. I would like to inform this House that it is not about its transformation, but about its abolition. At the committee's meeting, the minority opinion was formulated that this, in fact, removing the category of punishment in the case of control and inappropriate market behaviour after the abolition of the administrative price, would result in the fact that about 500 thousand people who are dependent on it because they live in a poor infrastructure area in Hungary that there is no fixed gas and other energy supply will be in a very difficult situation by abolishing the official price. At the committee meeting, I asked Mr Szilárd Németh, the rapporteur, what justified the amendment of the law that he had tabled, which still contained these control and sanctions, which you very much liked, and they were removed from this bill in a summary amendment adopted by the TAB at the committee meeting. At the time, the rapporteur said at the committee meeting that everything was needed to reduce the costs. Dear House, I think that this is an impertinent argument even from this government and this Fidesz majority parliament. To argue that we are abolishing the official price because, by the way, it serves to reduce the costs is quite simply unacceptable. At the committee meeting, Mr President, Mr President, he said that there are in fact three large suppliers of these types of LPG cylinders in Hungary, some of which are foreign owned, but we all know that MOL is the largest domestic supplier. Today we have heard from Prime Minister that national-owned industries are the ones that are important in the country. So, these three private operators are not managed by the government and the Fidesz majority, which in 0-24 hours here destroys complete sectors and rewrites the relevant laws. So I still don't know and I don't understand the reason why the abolition of the already unacceptable official price, although the author submitted a kind of monitoring and sanctioning function by amending the law... is simply included in the summary amendment tabled by the TAB. I am sorry, Mr President, I am not convinced, but I believe that not only me, but also the 500 thousand people who are forced to heat, produce and cook hot water with LPG bottles, because they simply have no other option. I understand that large capital and strong market players can even restrict the Orbán government, but in my view, it is the government's job to resist them, and to create laws for these market operators in some way that force them not to raise prices. At a committee meeting... I don't know how much time I have left, Mr. President.
u2023-07-03-265	Three minutes.
u2023-07-03-266	Three minutes. Thank you. Then I can tell you that. So at the committee meeting, the rapporteur said that at the moment, the Hungarian Energy Office and all the other listed agencies have the opportunity to intervene if there is cartel or unfair pricing. I think the most relaxing thing would be if this $500,000 supply of LPG would continue to be at the expense of the authorities. On this basis, the minority of the committee considers that this legislative amendment proposal cannot be adopted, should it not be adopted, and if the Fidesz majority and the Fidesz government were to be faithful to what they promised at the elections to protect the reduction of the rent, this would mean that an important element of the reduction in the rent is now being abolished and, in fact, made uncontrollable and uncontrollable, not for the reduction of the rent. Thank you so much for listening. [[Balázs Barkóczi and Szabolcs Szabó applaud.]]
u2023-07-03-267	Thank you, Gy. Congresswoman Erzsébet Németh. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he wants to speak now or at the end. [[István Szilárd Németh: At the end, thank you.]] In the end, thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if someone from the government wants to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see a signal. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I'm waiting for the candidate. [[No signal.]] No report. The debate is closed. I'm going to ask the government's representative if someone would like to speak. [[No signal.]] No one's reporting. I now give the floor to István Németh Szilárd, representative of Fidesz, the author. Is your card in there?
u2023-07-03-268	Yeah.
u2023-07-03-269	They said they didn't.
u2023-07-03-270	The system says he's in there. In fact, I even got a word.
u2023-07-03-271	Then you have the floor, Congressman. Let's hear it.
u2023-07-03-272	Is he gonna be okay?
u2023-07-03-273	We're listening, yes.
u2023-07-03-274	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, To get criticism from those who, under their governance, have practically brought this country into a debt crisis... The price of domestic gas and electricity was increased 15 times, the price of gas tripled 208 percent, the electricity nearly doubled by 97 percent, during the eight years they were on the steering wheel, the Gyurcsány, Bajnai period and the Medgyessy period, people accumulated HUF 52 billion in yellow check debt for their livelihoods. There was a really poor part that you like to refer to in the housing estates, where a family had to pay up to 35-40 percent of their earnings. So, it was an amazing situation, otherwise, that cumulative inflation didn't reach 59 percent during this period. In an incredible way, energy suppliers who had been given foreign ownership were allowed to do whatever they wanted with Hungarian people. So what we have here as a minority position, either as a opposition or as a left-wing position, is completely discredited. Erzsébet Németh wrote it. At the committee meeting and before that, I referred to in the press that, when we launched the reduction in the rent at the beginning of 2013, the Prime Minister had a firm request that we create affordable energy, cheap energy for households, that there should be no energy disruption. I think it's very important. Here for the 500-550 thousand people who use it on a daily basis a year, of course, it is not just the poorest areas, but it is not necessarily used for heating, but it is used primarily for cooking, and it cannot be allowed in the market to create a shortage in certain areas of the country, where this is very much needed, primarily North-East Hungary and Baranya County. And it is not possible for companies that are given the opportunity to market in this market, so they are allowed to abuse their power, and they are causing this shortage, and they say that if they do not benefit from it, they will indeed withdraw from the market. We are talking about 500,000 people, 500,000 Hungarian families, and we need to create affordable energy at the same time, and energy at the same time. So security of supply is practically, if you like, the most important part of the reduction of the overhead, and in this energy crisis that has developed since the war, in fact, in an almost inexplicable way, but we can still find an explanation, the sanctions have pushed the price to the sky. So Hungary has managed to preserve not only the supply of households, but also the supply of Hungarian industry, the Hungarian economy, by, for example, buying back the companies that supply energy and buying back the reservoirs that you also sold to the Russians so that I could not say anything else, including the Russians. [[21.10]] So, in this area, we also need to ensure in the area of bottled gas, LPG cylinders, and we also need to ensure that if the LPG bottle weighs 11.5 kilograms, then it must be filled with 11.5 kilograms of propane butane, not 10,9 kilograms. Well, that's the purpose of this proposal. I went a little beyond defense, and after the negotiations, and talked to the authorities, that the authorities had the power, in fact, to do with what I had originally put forward. Mine stations give us permission, they're the ones who gave it to these three companies. This has a review phase, and it is constantly watched by the licensees, who place about 4.5 million bottles of gas on the market each year, they have the right tools, the right conditions, the right conditions and, if not, they will be withdrawn from any of them. MOL is not the largest, by the way, in the market, they share about one third of the share, but there are two Hungarian and one American players in this market. On the other hand, the Hungarian Competition Authority has the possibility that if cartels were to take place between the three companies and this would appear noticeably in the prices, they would strike and punish these companies and force this cartel to cease. Carteling is not only a category of economic law, but also a category of criminal law, so the management of companies and companies is also playing with it. On the other hand, the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office is also working with a scientific, market research method: it makes various reports on Eurostat data, I think, with a Swedish and Finnish-owned statistical company, and in all respects Hungary provides the cheapest household energy for Hungarians in Europe, the European Union. The market price of bottled gas, which can be purchased today, is cheaper than that of Poles and Spanish. The Poles have a special acquisition. I wouldn't talk about that here in Parliament. I promised you I'd be happy to tell you how the Poles operate. In Poland, however, about 3.5 million passenger cars run with propane-butane gas, so they have teams of very strong small players, and Spain is a propane-butane gas power, so they can sell it slightly cheaper than they can buy in Hungary. So I think all the conditions are fine. If this legislation is adopted, this legislation, this amendment to Get, and this amendment to the legislation on mining will ensure that all 500 thousand people in Hungary have access to this propane-butane gas bottle in all areas of the country where this is needed. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-07-03-275	Thank you very much, Mr István Szilárd Németh, for the closing words of the author. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of Act C of 1990 on Local Taxes and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow. The submission submitted by the representatives of Balázs Győrffy and István Nagy, István Jakab and Zsolt Nyitrai Fidesz, T/4064. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, and I will therefore give the floor to Mr Tibor Pogácsás, the rapporteur of the committee.
u2023-07-03-276	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 29 June 2023, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/4064 amending Act C of 1990 on Local Taxes. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It adopted it by 32 votes in favour, no votes against, with 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The competitiveness of the agricultural and food economy is of particular importance to Hungary, the Hungarian national economy. Hungarian farmers must compete both at national, European and international level. The bill on the House's table is justified by the significant burden on farmers in some cases by levying a land tax. This created a different situation as it affected farmers to varying degrees, thus having a major impact on competitiveness. Moreover, not only the local tax, the land tax, but also other contributions and public burdens have appeared to farmers and this has put a significant burden on the costs of farming. It is therefore appropriate that, in order to safeguard the competitiveness of the Hungarian agricultural and food economy, taxes on agricultural land should not be levied. In line with the changes made in the Legislative Committee's procedure, it is appropriate, for reasons of legal certainty, to provide for a specific provision that the local government needs to adapt, amend or repeal its municipal tax regulation to the changed legal rules. In light of what has been said, I ask this House to support the bill. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-07-03-277	Thank you very much, Congressman Tibor Pogácsás. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Balázs Győrffy, if he would like to speak now. [[Balázs Győrffy: At the end.]] At the end. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Does anyone from the government wish to speak? [[For signal:]] They're signaling no. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to the Members to take part in their speeches within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I'm looking at the screen, waiting for the candidate. There is no applicant and the debate is therefore closed. I have to ask the government's representative if anyone would like to comment. [[No signal.]] He doesn't want to comment. I am now giving the floor to Balázs Győrffy, who is preparing for the debate closing. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-07-03-278	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, After a very serious year last year, we thought that a further blow was no longer in the hands of the Hungarian economy, and the Hungarian countryside supported us in this idea, because in a very short period of time we could collect some 120 thousand signatures in order to stop the kind of crazy idea that Péter Márki-Zay, as a candidate for fallen Prime Minister, had come to us; and his aim was to sabotage farmers who traditionally didn't vote according to his intellectual values. He came to this conclusion in a year that has been the worst drought in recent decades, but it may not be exaggeration to say that it has been the worst drought in recent centuries. We cannot go without saying that there is a war going on in our neighbourhood, which is a tragedy in itself, but it has also had serious consequences for Hungarian agriculture. The European Union has poured Ukrainian grain on us without a very wrong decision, which fundamentally changed the possibilities, competitiveness and liquidity of the Hungarian economy in the wrong direction. Of course, war as such brings inflation with it, which has reached a rather high level in Hungary as well, and we think it is insane to think of the attitude to add further impetus to inflation by smearing farmers, increasing the burden on farmers, thereby increasing the cost of food production. [[21.20]] That is why I think, together with my fellow authors, that we will never again be able to see the Hungarian farming community being smeared, so we very much hope that the Parliament will accept this initiative. I would also ask my fellow Members to stand by us and vote in favour of this bill. We believe that the policy of the economic society that forms the backbone of the Hungarian countryside must be put to an end. Thank you very much to the Committee on Legislative Affairs for the amendments that have made this legislation more precise and enforceable. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-07-03-279	I thank the rapporteur, Mr Balázs Győrffy, for his closure. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the contribution of airlines and the amendment of certain tax laws and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. The government referral is T/4243. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, so I will give the floor to Congressman Gyula Földesi, the rapporteur of the committee.
u2023-07-03-280	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 29 and 30 June 2023, the Legislative Committee discussed T/4243 on the contribution of airlines and amending certain tax laws. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution 46. By 25 votes in favour, 8 votes against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The tax package submitted by the government aims to protect the family-friendly tax system despite the current war situation. To this end, it preserves one of Europe's lowest personal income tax, family tax relief, tax exemptions for four children, mothers under 30 and under 25 and, moreover, continues to guarantee a reduced VAT rate for basic foods. On the basis of the bill, fuels are not subject to excise duty for airlines and therefore the level of public transport charges is extremely low. The submitted proposal contains a number of proposals, some should be highlighted without the need for completeness. Thanks to this proposal, Hungary can be the first to introduce the so-called e-rest in the European Union. Paperless requisition means less administration, easy use and cost reduction for entrepreneurs. In addition, it can become a way of giving receipts from an environmental and epidemiological point of view around the world. The proposal raises to a legislative level the requirement of emergency legislation extending by two years the duration of a reduced VAT rate of 5% on the sale of new residential immovable property. It also includes transitional arrangements for the management of prolonged construction. It is also good news to those who are about to expand their homes that the acquisition of assets through the expansion of another owned property with a CSOK grant will be free of charge. A typical case of this could be attic construction. During the procedure of the Legislative Committee, the proposal has been supplemented and clarified in several places. For example, the proposal reduces the VAT rate of newspapers at the initiative of the Hungarian Publishers' Association. The aim of the VAT rate reduced to zero per cent is to support access to diverse information, culture consumption, widespread mass media and media pluralism for all. In addition, a specific part of the tax revenue from the public health product tax may be offered not only for health-preservation programmes, but also for pleasure and recreation and health-preservation programmes, as well as for investments for existing and complementary purposes. Dear House, The proposed legislation provides an appropriate basis for next year's budget, which will protect families, pensions, jobs, reduction of rent and safeguard the security of Hungary. In view of this, the proposal should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-07-03-281	Thank you very much, Congressman Gyula Földesi. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak now. [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if someone from the government wants to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I'm looking at the screen, waiting for the candidate. [[No one's reporting.]] There is no applicant and the debate is therefore closed. I'll ask him if he'd like to comment now. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2023-07-03-282	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd just like to take your time for a minute. I would like to thank Mr Földesi, who has very well summarized the most important points of the presentation. I would like to thank the Economic Commission and the Legislative Committee for making the text of the law even more precise with a number of improvements. As the Member summarized, there are a lot of positive elements in this bill that should be supported, so I ask you to vote on this tomorrow. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2023-07-03-283	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Izer Norbert. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the new career of educators and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. The government referral is T/4255. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, so I give the floor to Mr Gábor Törő, rapporteur of the committee.
u2023-07-03-284	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 29 June 2023, the Legislative Committee discussed the new career of teachers, T/4255. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 27 votes in favour, 11 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The main point of the bill before us is the creation of a separate rules of effectiveness for teachers and workers directly assisting in educational and educational work in public education institutions, which eliminates the current mixed legal relationship. The aim of the new career model is to improve the social, professional and financial appreciation of children's educators. Dear House, The summary amendment proposal negotiated and adopted by the Legislative Committee contains several amendments, some of which I would like to highlight. The amendment also identifies as a system of odds pay the 20% wage advantage for underprivileged children and pupils, as well as the cumulatively disadvantaged pupils under the conditions of entitlement to the system of chances. The portion of the salary for the creation of a chance shall also apply to employment other than appointing. Under the bill, a fixed-term appointment may be made in respect of the employment relationship in public education only by replacement. As this tightening up is not justified for private and ecclesiastical institutions, the provision is amended to apply only to institutions with state and municipal reservations. [[21.30]] Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment also makes it clear that, for the purposes of severance payments, the time spent in the employment relationship with the employer or his predecessor in general education must be included in the period of employment of the employer or predecessor in the public employment relationship prior to the day of 1 January 2024. It is also proposed that the amount, freedom, Jubilee Rewards and Departure Period for the public education worker should be determined by the Kjt. The provisions in force on 31 December 2023 shall apply. Finally, according to the amendment, if a trade union with a ten per cent membership condition at the level of its maintainer or employer does not operate, the trade union with the largest membership has the right of opinion, agreement and consultation at that level. Dear Parliament, I believe that the proposal before us is beneficial in changing the current legislative environment for teachers, children and institutions. Hopefully, the new career model can contribute to the strengthening of the prestige of educatorism, ensuring replacement, and thus indirectly further improving the quality of public education. I ask this House to support this proposal. Thank you for listening.
u2023-07-03-285	Thank you very much, Congressman Gábor Törő. Dear Parliament, I will ask the rapporteur whether he would like to speak now or at the end of the debate. [[Dr. Zoltán Maruzsa Viktor: Now.]] You have the floor, Secretary of State, Mr. Zoltán Maruzsa.
u2023-07-03-286	Mr President, Dear Parliament, We have often said that the purpose of the new law on the teaching career prepared by the government is to improve the respect and pay of teachers. We've been through a long debate, we've been through committee meetings. I was sad to hear that the opposition called this draft a Vengeance Act, because I am convinced that that is not the case. I remember well that in 2019 our amendment to the law at that time was referred to and attacked as Taigetos law, and they said that if we accept it, then it's all over. Then reality came to light, and it didn't turn out the way you said it did. I hope it will be the same with this bill. The big debates will be put behind us, forgotten, and there will be no nuclear strike, no burnt earth that has been mentioned in the debate, and life will go on. With regard to the negotiation of the bill, I confirm once again that we have discussed 20 times, we have discussed all the elements of the law, and in 34 areas, we have made a substantive change to our published proposal. I've heard an opinion that this was a mock-up. I understand, of course, that if we don't agree, then the problem is that we agree, and then it's not a real negotiation. Please believe me, who was there for meaningful discussions, we have adopted the proposals in a lot of things, we have spent a lot of work hours with the negotiating partners, and I can even say that I would have liked to have been more constructive in some matters. Some people, of course, only get to withdraw this bill. I think it's the easiest thing to say, it doesn't take much of a spiritual effort. Let's deal with the merit of the law. If the law is passed, the employment relationship in public education will be established. The main aim of this is to create a self-regulation for educators, taking into account the characteristics of public education, to strengthen the prestige of the teaching profession. We are not abolishing the current rules on teachers in public education, but we are extending them to the third of the public education system to whom the Kjt applies. to date, it has not; I mean private and ecclesiastical institutions. The main element of the proposal is the introduction of a new performance-based wage system. I have already spoken about certain details of this during the general debate. I would now confirm that the change will be the most significant in this area, since today, within each rating category, the salary of the teacher is determined by how old he is and by the fact that he graduated from college or university at one time. I am glad that this changes, because the pay should be more reflected in who does what work, what work results are, what children's learning outcomes are, what educational added value is. If we pay working hours, everyone will work a lot of paperwork, but it doesn't follow that they will work more effectively. That is why we need professional measurement data to capture learning outcomes, and that is why we need an annual benchmark assessment based on this, a fair benchmarking that rewards those who deserve it. I am not surprised that the union does not want this to happen, but we want to take into account not only the interests of the worker but also the interests of the student on this issue. It should be noted that the very broad possibility of setting wages will greatly increase the governance autonomy of directors and, of course, their responsibilities, as they must manage the wage burden entrusted to them in such a way as to make the best possible use of it in terms of learning outcomes. This will give the director the means he's never had before, and I think it's the right direction. An outstanding element of the law concerning social inclusion is teachers working in a public educational institution in one of the so-called beneficiary and catching up settlements, and those who, although doing their work in other settlements, have at least 10 percent of the proportion of disadvantaged or cumulative disadvantaged children in their institution, operate a programme for catching up with them. They will be entitled to an additional payment of 20% of their basic salary. We're gonna call this a paycheck. This proposal was also supported by the opposition at the Committee on Legislative Affairs, which I thank, although I would be even more pleased if the entire bill was voted on. Under the new law, everyone will receive the Jubilee Prize, not just in public service, as they are now. We significantly reduce the administrative burden on teachers, their freedom increases. I'd like to move on to one more case. In his speech in the general debate, Mr Hiller missed the lack of a vision of the new digital way of transferring knowledge in the bill. The good news is that there is, although it is a fact that this is included in the draft with a dryness worthy of the law. I would like to draw attention to the obligation to make the CRETA system mandatory and to the new functionality of this system which will now be laid down by law. The KRÉTA has been a learning system with many modules, but the new law sets out a development direction that I believe is the future. You, who are present here, know precisely that we have introduced a number of measurements in public education in the last year, and not only in the case of text understanding and mathematics, but on digital basis, a new system of measurements has been launched from 4th to 11th grade for science and virtually every measurable subject. When the results of this are entered into the KRÉTA, the software will know the student's strengths and weaknesses, and on this basis it will be able to give you the exercises you need to study for a given grade, and you can measure their solution, and you can return the data to the educator. Individualised, artificial intelligence-supported assistance will be provided to the educator in the very near future, which has not yet been experienced. This may be science fiction today, but it's gonna be real sooner than you think. Finally, I would also like to mention that the amendments tabled to the Committee on Legislative Affairs have a number of substantive changes. In particular, I would like to highlight the definition of a fixed 24-hour weekly working time with education. The amendment concerns only those who have so far been subject to 22-26 hours, which have had a lower number of hours in place, but does not change. The 24-hour rule will be introduced from the first day of the 2023-24 school year, before the teachers enter into a new relationship, as the hours cannot change during the academic year. The rules for ordering non-appointing employment are also clarified. In addition to the spatial limitation, i.e. the ability to order within the district, there is also a time limit, and instead of the teaching year, it is only until the end of the teaching semester that this kind of task can be performed. Furthermore, the condition of the order will be to examine it in advance, to volunteer for the task. Furthermore, at the initiative of the Waldorf institutions, fixed-term appointments will continue to be maintained without restriction by the bill at the church and private institutions covered by the Labour Code. Dear Parliament, I ask you to support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-07-03-287	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you that you will have 7 minutes 45 seconds to further comment on the debate and to say the closing word. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Committee on Culture. I now give the floor to the Slovenian ethnic advocate Erika Kissné Köles, rapporteur of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, who is involved in the debate, who will present the first sentences of his speech in the language of nationality and then translate them into Hungarian. You have the floor, Congresswoman. [[21.40]]
u2023-07-03-288	Hvala za besedo gospod predsednik! Gospod predsednik, gospod državni secretar! Gospodje Poslanci, Poslanke in Zagovornik. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Members, Congresswoman, Speaker! As a committee related to the debate of the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary, the Committee of Nationalities of the Hungarian Parliament adopted its opinion on the specific provisions of the House Rules 10/2014. [[ANNEX II 24.]] Parliamentary resolution 44-45. On 22 June 2023, he held a detailed debate on the proposed legislation. The committee, examining the bill, found that it complied with the House Rule 44. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. In accordance with established practice, our Commission did not take a position on the proposed amendments to the bill and did not intend to make amendments during the detailed discussion phase, and therefore our committee did not submit a proposal for a detailed amendment to the Commission which closed the debate. For indigenous ethnic communities living in Hungary and recognised as a factor of state under the provisions of the Fundamental Law, nationality education and education are of paramount importance. For the future of the survival of nationalities, it is essential that the education and education of ethnic students be carried out in the framework of quality, balanced, harmonious and calm educational work, with the work of financially, morally and professionally respected educators. Both existentially and professionally respected ethnic educators by exercising their profession strengthen the consciousness of ethnicity of children, pupils and students, develop their linguistic and cultural identity, and transfer national traditions through their educational and educational work. Our Committee sincerely hopes that T/4255 on the new career of teachers With the adoption of the legislative proposal No.3 the legislative proposals will increase the attractiveness of the pedagogical career, and as a result of the changes to be introduced, all sections of society, including those present as workers in ethnic education, may face the fact that the changes will result in the moral and material prestige of teachers in our kindergartens and schools in a positive and non-disadvantage situation. Hvala za posornost! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of governing parties and ethnic advocates.]]
u2023-07-03-289	Thank you, Mrs Kiss, for Erika Köles' speech. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I would like to give the floor to Mr Szabadi István, representative of our country, who has a six-minute timeframe.
u2023-07-03-290	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, As Dóra Dúró, Vice-President of the Hungarian Movement, said during the general debate of the bill, our party does not support the pedagogical status law because it does not create the financial security, professional freedom of teachers and does not reduce their burden; in many respects, teachers are put in a worse position than at present. Our position has only been confirmed by the fact that in the legislative proposal, Dóra Dúró tabled 14 amendments aimed at reducing the workload and making the regulation more lively, but these amendments were simply swept down unanimously by the Fidesz majority of the Committee on Culture. As we're used to, the government is also pursuing a two-gallon policy in the field of education. While at home the indicators of how the situation of education improved, the EFOP Plus application submitted to Brussels described exactly how serious the Hungarian education system is. According to this, Hungary is below the OECD average in terms of expenditure per student; public education is facing structural challenges on the basis of coral and deficit areas; unfortunately, the population of teachers is ageing; in 2019, 45 percent of teachers were 50 years old or older; one of the reasons for the lack of competitive pay for teachers and one of the lowest in the EU. The government is therefore very aware of the problems of education, so this bill should be a milestone of the Hungarian education system based on the professional consensus of parliamentary parties and trade unions. Instead, the policy and expert discussions announced in the media took place in the Ministry of Interior only for appearances, the substantive negotiation was lacking real government intentions, despite the fact that the MiHazak Movement has developed and submitted concrete proposals for solutions to systemic problems. During the political consultation with the Minister of the Interior, the parties were caught off guard by the fact that experts with them could not speak, for example. The left-wing parties withdrew from the room, Dóra Dúró, Vice-President of the Mi Hazank Movement, from among the opposition politicians, was the only one who stood by and proposed to amend the parts of the status law which are detrimental to teachers. For example, he indicated that the bill does not provide sufficient guarantees for mothers with small children returning after the birth of the child. The Minister of the Interior has promised to review these points, but this remains an empty promise as we get used to it. The next day, at the expert meeting, representatives of the Ministry did not even create the appearance of cooperation, which is well shown by the fact that the discussion was not recorded. Two other experts from the seven invited opposition experts were present in addition to the training educators delegated by our country. During the meeting, the staff of the Ministry spoke of teachers in an offensive tone and scornful scorn, for example, in their opinion there is no explicit shortage of teachers; there is no aggression in schools, if there is a problem of conduct with one of the children, due to the lack of methodological preparedness of the educator. In their opinion, the teacher has all the tools available in the field of education and has a number of opportunities to seek help, which is also an insidious one, the staff of the wallet cynically noted that teachers would also like to earn a million forints a month and would like to sit in punchy hours or at home during the summer holiday. Now, that's what the government press called an expert meeting. Our party's expert pointed out, among other things, the lack of detailed rules and the pressure on school management in relation to congestion and unpaid extra work, but they did not want to hear these problems in the Ministry. The fate of future generations depends on this law. If the teacher's respect is not created, in a few years there will be no one to teach our children. There is no progress in the bill, no predictable careers, and the inflexibility of regulation further reduces the attractiveness of the profession. So far, about 16,000 teachers are missing from schools, and at least 5,000 teachers have indicated that they will resign if this law is introduced. After six years of teacher training, young people prefer to be hotel receptionists, where they simply earn twice the salary they would receive as teachers. According to the view of the Hungarian Movement, the wage-setting of teachers is a matter of national strategy. We find it unacceptable that the government itself, claiming to be a sovereigntyist, makes the wage increase of teachers dependent on the money in Brussels, all the more so, because, according to Minister Gergely Gulyás's statement in Government Info, a total of HUF 7000 billion is planned to be spent on educators' wage increases by 2030, only 11 percent of which will be EU funding of HUF 800 billion, i.e. primarily from domestic budget funds. In the opinion of President Katalin Novák, the salary of teachers should be increased regardless of EU funds. Márton Nagy recently spoke with a noble simplicity about the fact that Hungary does not really need EU funds. This is why it is incomprehensible to us that if EU funds do not arrive, they will only increase teachers' salaries by 10 percent a year, which did not cover inflation this year. Why will wage increases be retroactive only until July, as opposed to promises? Furthermore, there is no guarantee in the bill [[The president's ringing the bell.]] that the compensation will be covered. I can't go on without time. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2023-07-03-291	Thank you very much, Congressman Szabadi. The next speaker is Mr Balázs Barkóczi, representative of DK. [[21.50]]
u2023-07-03-292	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I must admit that I am a little embarrassed, because we are debating the law on changing the status of teachers, which, in fact, negatively affects the teacher-life model for years, that no one on the part of the rapporteur is involved in this debate at ministerial level; but not only in the debate on amendments, but also in the debate on the law, and I believe that this clearly shows nothing personal, Mr Secretary of State, not to take on what you think about teachers and the state education and this law. In the first seven hours of the 18 o'clock debate, you didn't speak, you smiled very well under your moustache, and it was typical that the debate was finally concluded by the Minister of Health of the Ministry of the Interior. I don't know that Péter Takács is a god-daughter genius, that he knows all the sectors that belong to the Ministry of the Interior, that is to say, law enforcement, education, health care, and so on, that he would surpass his boss, because Sándor Pintér himself admitted that he didn't know about education, or that this just shows that the government is unwilling to hear the voice of the players in the sector, and he refuses to hear what is wrong with this status law. I'd prefer the latter, and I'll explain why. Let me just say, from the outset, that the position of the Democratic Coalition is clear, this law cannot be amended, it does not need to be unravelled. You may think that this does not require too much mental stress, but it is still the truth that this law must be thrown into the trash. And by the way, this will be the first task of the education policy of the Social Democratic Government, led by Dobrev Klára, to dump this law; also because, as I told your fellow State Secretary, Bence Rétvári, in the interpellation, it is outrageous that this law does not actually answer the general problems affecting public education. So it doesn't answer or even make those problems worse. It doesn't respond to the lack of teachers, it doesn't respond to the overload of teachers and students. It has also been said several times here in the debate by a woman who advocates nationality, that we hope that she will increase the prestige of the teaching field, well, that is not what this looks like for the time being. Now, dozens of teachers have announced their resignations, that they will no longer be imagining themselves on the teaching field as of September, precisely because of the law of vengeance that you have presented. At national level, five thousand teachers who, if you vote in favour of this bill tomorrow, can also turn their backs on their careers, which is a disaster, and I do not think that forcing parents to use a platform to communicate with the school, which, by the way, some bored hackers are playing with ease at the time, would certainly point to the modernisation and digitalization of public education. However, this law does not provide a solution to ever-increasing segregation and selection problems, nor does the law provide a solution to wage-setting, to the fact that Article XXI. Students can learn in a century environment; to create a safe and motivating atmosphere that makes all children think they can unfold, and in addition, most of the amendments that are being discussed are technical and do not take into account the substantive objections raised in the debate. We have all read, I hope, the Facebook entry by Secretary of State of Rétvári, in which he said that opposition parties could not bring up new aspects during the debate on the Vengeance Act, well, it seems that Minister of State did not pay much attention either, although I believe that he was given the night job assignment from the Ministry, and that he might have been tired at that time or not rested before him. A number of opposition proposals were made in the debate, and I myself did several of these in my keynote speech, but you imagine that the truth, Mr State Secretary, is that a 150-page law will be issued to trade unions and professional organisations with a one-week deadline, and then only a mock-up agreement will take place with, for example, the National Pedagogist Faculty, which you grunted with and other anonymous actors in public education. I would like to talk about three amendments if I still have time. The first is the principle of representativeness. Secretary of State, your government has been continuing for 13 years with its policy of sharing and conquering, and it is very easy to refer to representativeness in relation to the National Educational Faculty of compulsory membership, but at the same time to exclude organisations with a long history and real interest in the negotiations, such as trade unions. If you were looking for substantive amendments to this bill, then trade unions have done a number of these, and even the Democratic Trade Union of Teachers has created a separate website where they were collected. However, on the other hand, you said in your own propaganda door that anyone who is against this is campaigning or protesting against the law that is unthinkable and that destroys future generations and that is destroying the public education of the future, all of which are disruptive by the dollar left. Let me get stuck here for a moment: this is not the case, Mr. Secretary. So why don't you consider him a partner and treat your own voters as adults? As Shadow Minister of Klára Dobrev's shadow government, for example, I have consulted many professional organizations, trade unions and student organizations to say that the Teachers Movement receives the European Citizens' Award on the recommendation of Klára Dobrev. This year I think this is the real dialogue, which is lacking in your policy and practice. The other one, you said, is that you would record the working hours committed to education and education 24 hours a week. On the day of the debate of the law, this was announced with a great deal of chinnarat, not taking into account the fact that trade unions have been talking about 22 hours of working time maximization for years and are asking the government to do so. On the other hand, putting the 24-hour fixed hours per week into law does not pose a great risk, because at the same time, additional teaching, imposing unpaid ad hoc replacements and introducing the working time limit, you continue to have the opportunity to impose extreme work on teachers, i.e. on extreme workload. Not to mention the fact that the few who work full-week jobs and work less than 24 hours a week with education and education are at risk of full-time employment. Finally, the third is a question of transfer. You have mentioned it, and I would like to stress it very much, that it seems as though you have once again made a concession on this issue, which I think was one of the biggest debates that triggered the debate on the negotiation of the draft law. However, unlike the original plans, they were willing to agree to what you said was that teachers can be relocated within walking distance or, according to the current amendment, only if the journey does not exceed three hours. However, there is still not a single word about who will pay the extra cost of travel, Mr Secretary. The teachers, with the little salary they have because you refuse to raise me? They are constantly pointing to Brussels, and if you really consider teachers to be partners, as you stress, and say that there have been substantive negotiations, then why have you not listened to the union's request on this point to have a common understanding about the transfer? Because I think that as a teacher who has been practicing for 12 years, that who, during the course of the year, and now completely doesn't care if he rips a teacher out of any class community for a year or six months, is not suitable for teaching or for the professional management of education. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] So I would like to emphasise once again that the Democratic Coalition faction believes that the amendments, together with the original text and spirit of the law, are unacceptable, in no way eligible, and that the Democratic Coalition will not support them. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2023-07-03-293	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members, to our work. On behalf of Momentum, I give the floor to Szabolcs Szabó. Here you go.
u2023-07-03-294	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. He said, Mr. Secretary of State, that I will not quote it literally, but in substance he said that the opposition, as always, said that if this law was passed, whoa, then there would be only the scorched earth left, and that is not usually the case for the opposition. I think there's been a misunderstanding, but we've talked a lot in 18 hours. Here the claim was that it was already scorched. So this was not a future period, and I think that is factually true, and you also acknowledge that the salaries are very low. [[22.00]] They admit less that there is a shortage of teachers, but if you go to a school, you will find that there is a shortage of specialized teachers, especially in the field of science. Well, you have to look for a physics and chemistry teacher with a magnifying glass, and there's a shortage of major teachers of this kind in the capital high schools. So there is indeed a very massive shortage of teachers; and then we have not talked about the overload of teachers, students, and professional autonomy, and so on. And that is what we have explained, that the bill does not provide an answer, and otherwise the amendments adopted in the summarised amendment do not provide an answer. I'm glad the miscalculation formulas have been corrected by the damn division, right, but they've noticed that. Back in the day, education was good, and they noticed that division was important. I'd like to draw attention to something that you can't really say is a threat here, and that we're just saying that it's gonna be bad, and it's not true. The thing is, when I think about what we have here in Csepel, Soroksár, I now need two hands to count how many schools have the principal's applications been cancelled. So really, now, it depends on how I count, but it's actually the nine where we're at. The last two cases have been resolved, and in one school we are talking about an institution that is one of the best schools in the city, perhaps within the top 10. Nevertheless, the tender was cancelled. For example, we have repeatedly said this in the debate that, even in the current situation, it is a fundamental problem that the most fundamental professional autonomy of the institutions does not exist, so that the head of the institution can now intervene again in the election of the school director, and this law will no longer give us the opportunity to do so. So, as it happens now, that you cancel applications, that everyone points out to each other, that nobody knows why they've actually been invalidated, because no one can hear real arguments, that teachers in the institutions, students and parents of students can only see that the teacher they love and otherwise recognized by the profession can no longer be a director, or can no longer be, because they are not appointed, so far, he has been a teacher or vice principal, and that still means they have zero influence on this. So their professional autonomy is on the zero level, including the institutional leadership election, and then we can talk about the pedagogical program and a lot of things. I think that once these things don't get better, but they stay in bad shape, we don't say that we're gonna scare you, but that we're not having a good time, and we've talked a lot here to make this at least a little bit better. And I still have the courage to say that this bill will not improve the state of public education. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2023-07-03-295	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask my fellow Members, who else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Zoltán Maruzsa, State Secretary, if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Seven minutes and 45 seconds is the time frame available. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2023-07-03-296	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the answer. For Mr István Szabadi: I also listened to Dóra Dúró's speech on the outcome of the expert consultation. I wasn't involved in this, so I asked my coworkers how they remember what happened there. I would very much like to organise a discussion on both sides of the participants, where we can clarify exactly what was said there. Remember, Minister, although there is no obligation to do so, it is a tradition in the Ministry of the Interior that the representatives of the parties are invited once again in connection with the laws initiated by the Ministry of the Interior: the representatives of the parties, Minister, have kept to this end, which is why he invited the representatives of the parliamentary parties. As a result of the fact that the parties have brought in the organisations with whom there have been dozens of consultations, I think that this cannot be the beginning of the House, if the Minister has indicated at this meeting that he will continue to consult with the delegates of the parties and the delegation leaders present here. This, by the way, was accepted, even if they resented that not everyone could comment uncoordinatedly. It was then proposed that the experts be invited on another occasion; this was done in the manner described by you, but not in such a way and in my view, not with such content, but we can clarify this. The lack of teachers has been mentioned in several contributions. I think that if we look at it in the Western world, there is an increasing shortage of teachers everywhere, which is far from being explained by employment conditions, only by wages. Even in any country where the statistics mentioned by you show a more favourable picture, let's say that the pay of teachers is, interestingly, becoming less attractive there as well. There are many explanations for this, not in this few minutes' time frame. But I also said in the general debate that in the last 12 years, the number of teachers in Hungary has decreased by 3 percent and the number of students has decreased by 13 percent. It nuances the picture. The absence of 16,000 teachers comes from a virtual calculation. I asked the unions, they told me how they calculated this number, but it's not a real situation. Indeed, in the debate planned for 72 hours, Minister of State Péter Takács said that he had shown a real standing and readiness; I thank him for that. We had no idea the debate was only 18 hours old. I would have been very happy to be here at the end. We were told that we heard on the street that we had to prepare for a 72-hour debate; please forgive me, for us. I can tell you about dialogue, negotiation, partnership that we have never agreed so much on a bill. I would like to make it clear that this does not mean that the representatives of the honourable trade unions will arrive, that they will tell me how to do it, and then the government will implement it in a hurry because that is sometimes my impression. During these discussions, they also made proposals, and we made proposals. By the way, there's some stuff that I would have liked very much if they had done in March, and we could've built it up. Compared to this, I have received a proposal for pay in the last few days that could have been interesting, but they did not do so at the time. As I said in my introduction, I would have liked to have a more constructive attitude in some cases. The cost of travel is, of course, paid by the employer. So if the colleague is led to a place that assumes travel costs, then the employer has to pay for it. In relation to the Csepel director's applications: a partial question, the merit of the bill is not affected. We have issued 527 director's applications, of which a few dozen are the ones for which no application is received; a similar magnitude is what the wallet does not decide, but initiates a new application, in the sense that we have not appointed anyone unfit, we have not appointed a non-suitable person; a decision has been made to issue a new application in a few dozen cases. From the 527 applications, I have seen media coverage in some cases in the last week. I'm sorry to say, for 527 cases, in terms of proportion, I don't consider this to be some huge scandalum. In most cases, I think we've been able to find the right candidates, and I'm sure all of you will do your job very well. If a better candidate is found in a new application or if they are re-subscribed, it may be examined whether they are invited to run the institution. I think that the professional autonomy of teachers is laid down by law. The National Basic Study Plan also provides the degree of freedom on content issues, which is fixed by the content regulators at a level of approximately 20 per cent. You could say that's not enough. It is important to draw attention to this: the very point of the National Basic Science Plan is to tell us what is required, general knowledge content in all schools of the nation, in all public education institutions. [[22.10]] Compared to this, if the rate of derogation is fixed at 20 per cent, this cannot be considered small, and I also think that the teacher has great freedom in methodological and professional matters. From the point of view of many, I have to say that I also read criticism from parents that sometimes it may be a little too big, because after closing the door, then in the classroom, what the teacher considers to be good happens, and not necessarily what the academic regulators record. I don't see that as such a bad problem. I think that the educator really needs to know what's good for the kids in that class, what's there to base their effectiveness. I believe in my colleagues, who perform this work in a good quality, but I would argue that this is really what we should strip his professional autonomy down to, that they should have the decisive word for leadership, and I do not agree with that. Today, in Hungary, in the course of his work, I think that he has considerable freedom in terms of both content and methodological issues, where there is essentially unlimited freedom. Thank you very much.
u2023-07-03-297	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First, I give the floor to Congressman László Varju, representing DK. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-07-03-298	Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, I am also taking advantage of this opportunity that, while the government is trying to take very serious steps and put them at a disadvantage against the local governments, the municipalities, the bodies of representatives, the management of each city, the leaders of each city are doing what they can to help people living in their residential areas in some way. And in that sense, I think that, of course, everyone has their own territory, and so I consider Újpest to be a special place with special people, which is our home, and for us, the center of the world. It is important for us to know the past, to plan for the present and for the future; new opportunities and new challenges are emerging in the lives of the population. It has become important for everyone to have a greener and more vibrant environment. The municipality has been working with the population along a well-built concept for years to ensure that our territory achieves this, so it is greener and more livable in this area. Surprisingly, we do it with a purple heart to make our territory greener. Historical moment In the life of Újpest, the park design of the Újpest main square: for decades ahead, Szent István tér can define the future with its new image, as it has made our main square one of the most beautiful main squares of the capital in 2010; since then it is still a place for many cultural events and events. As a continuation of development, a huge green investment was launched in spring. I hope that the main park itself, when it's finished, will please everyone. I am sure that the new green park will be harmoniously co-existing, living with the enveloped main square, the market, the closed event area, which makes the heart of our city truly unique, because we are in Újpest, this is our home. Government decisions, as I said, require and work with narrower resources for the city's leaders, and in the meantime it is also necessary to combat fast-track inflation. However, I think that with smart farming, very careful farming and careful attention, the leaders seem to be able to make events possible in addition to creating spaces; this can also be seen as a kind of emotional investment, so that most of our events provide programmes primarily to families. And if our vacation this year is hampered by a lack of money, more and more people are not in a financial position to fit into the family budget for a vacation, so it may be important and important for us to offer a variety of cultural and leisure programs in the city itself, and this is the IV. It's happening in the district this summer as well. Since last weekend you can visit the active main square, where young people, adults and families who love to move, play sports are expected. The daycare camp, the camping of disadvantaged children, will be an inevitable program this year as well. The city days of Újpest, BorVikend with high-quality concerts and gastronomic specialties, are becoming increasingly popular. This is still ahead of us, which will take place later. They're very dedicated to opening an extraordinary exhibition this week, for example. Last year's exhibition in Újpest was a memorable monument to the Jewish families of the pope, forgotten neighbors. Such an exhibition will undoubtedly hold its place anywhere. The title of the exhibition is this time. Forgotten Újpestians, which refers to the Jewish families that lived in Újpest, had or could have been neighbors in Újpest and were taken from Újpest. I think that last year the organizers of Újpest have taken a great part in the Hungarian cultural life, since last year the events brought to life have been a great success. However, we will not stop here this year; the city's leaders will continue to work on this, and in 2023 we will also be preparing special programmes. Come visit us as many as possible, we'll be waiting for you, and let's work on making the Newpestians feel better. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2023-07-03-299	Thank you very much, Congressman. Member Balázs Barkóczi of the DK Group has also applied for a speech after the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-07-03-300	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Although the 2011 CXCVI., the National Property Act requires that national wealth be managed in a transparent and responsible manner, since it should always be used for the purposes of public interest and community needs, we all know that this is far from the Fidesz reality of Orbán. For the NER elite, which has developed over the past 13 years, which has been called the Euphemistically National Capital Class only, the national wealth has not once lost its common character, so that the pals, the business partners, the party's hold-up and the narrowest family can become richer. Mészáros, Tiborcz, Garancsi, a gasman rich in rapid tempos with his childhood becoming a good friend Prime Minister, the family member who suddenly offers the best for every public procurement, the oligarch who has shared soccer passion for several decades, and the comet-like comet under the Fidesz government, are just a few examples of irresponsible management of the Hungarian public life as an octopus. However, if all of our common money is not used to loot and distribute to our friends, then things can be born nationwide and locally that are truly in the interest of our residents and contribute to the beauty, livableness, beauty and development of our place of residence. A good example of this is the XV. district, where Rákospalota, Pestújhely and Újpalota have not only remained viable in recent years, but have become more livable. A few weeks ago, I reported on the most important developments here in Parliament, and today I would like to address the issues of local social services, health and public security. Thanks to the extensive system of district grants, 5500 people have received pharmaceuticals in the last four years and 2200 people have received housing support in the 15th century. in the district. The majority of left-wing municipalities helped 868 families and nearly a thousand children with initial school support, and more than a thousand families and 2 thousand children received child protection grants. We were able to give a study scholarship to 925 students and HUF 57 million; during the pandemic, we supported families and people who had lost their jobs from the hospital, and we extended social catering; and our volunteers helped elderly people in the district shopping and administration. During the pandemic, we also contributed HUF 28 million to the protection against Covid, of which we were able to buy more than 100,000 masks and protective clothing, while in total we allocated almost HUF 4 billion to the costs of reconstruction and to protect the residents from the pandemic. The district waiting lists were shortened by the self-built CT machine purchased by the municipality, and not only gastroenterology was renewed in the Rákos út clinic, but also empty traumatologist, burner and psychiatrist specialist positions were filled. [[22.20]] In addition, we set up a medical emergency room on Bezsilla Nándor Street, handed over a new GP at Hubay Square, filled two district GP practice, and New Palota also became richer with a nonstop pharmacy. And what happened in the district in the area of public safety? In short: In Rákospalota, Pestújhely and Újpalota, public safety has improved, we have created a more orderly district, where each resident can boldly enter the street and live his daily life more peacefully. Only a few data: continuous expansion and modernisation of the CCTV system, with a total of 97 CCTV cameras operating in the district. Thanks to the successful cooperation of public sector supervision and the police, a police officer is also involved 24 hours a day in the ongoing surveillance of our public areas. We've launched a park ranger service within the framework of the Public Space Administration. So far, our park rangers have completed over 19,300 hours of work in four public parks in total. The machine park for public area control has also expanded: our patrolmen now provide the right presence in the district by four cars. With the operation of the field guard service as an independent field guard, four field guards serve each day of the year in the fields and fields of the district. We have not forgotten, of course, the police, firefighters and vigilantes of the district. We supported the operation of the organizations with tens of millions of HUF. The work of our excellent police officers and firefighters was rewarded with more than 6 million forints. So we have something to be proud of. The work will continue in the 15th century. Circuit. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2023-07-03-301	Thank you, Congressman. Congresswoman Andrea Hegedüs also applied for the post-meeting speech from the DK Group. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-07-03-302	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, It is time for Hungarians not only to hear about EU money when they watch the news at night, what kind of pro-government politicians have stolen, and how many billions of Fidesz brother-in-law's-coma accounts have swelled, but also to feel in their own skin, housing and circumstances that the European Union is helping them, European citizens with full rights. This is especially important for Miskolc. The only way they'll really feel like this is if the heating and cooling costs a lot less in renovated, upgraded panels and apartments, not to mention in an environmentally friendly way. It should be noted that many people cannot afford to show themselves hundreds of thousands of forints. As long as the Social Democratic Shadow Government of the Democratic Coalition has created a panel program, the Orbán government will send its Minister of Justice to Brussels, impose restrictions on young families, abolish the CSOK and baby shower loans that can be used to buy housing, and continue to have inflation in Orbán. The shadow government, on the other hand, took a positive step. One and a half million flats, apartments and family houses would be renovated, insulated and modernised from European Union funds without paying their own share. Household bills would be significantly reduced. Such an investment would also give Hungarian construction and its suppliers years of work. This is particularly important now, since the construction industry is the first loser of the failed economic policy in Orbán. Miskolc's housing stock is of particular importance and is particularly affected, because the number of inhabited apartments is more than 69 thousand, of which 48 per cent is traditional, with industrialized technology, or 52 per cent of the panel was built. There are 17 housing sites in the city. Until 2011, more than 14,000 apartments were renovated in Miskolc, with a 10-50 percent reduction in their thermal charges, i.e. making these homes more comfortable and more livable. The government hasn't touched the district heat charge yet, but it is planning to do so next year, since the operation of the teleheater is a thousand billion-dollar cost. So families living in unrefurbished flats without individual measurements will be at risk. This represents two thirds of the panel stock in Miskolc. What has Fidesz done since 2011 to improve the living conditions of the people of Miskolc and to ease the problems of the people living in the housing estate, so that the terrible conditions can be brought to an end? The answer is disappointing. While asthmatic children sleep in moldy apartments, the members of the government spend their carefree lives on lord's estates, castles and luxury houses, ignoring their real task, representing the Hungarian population. Some residents reported that their chandelier had been running water for the fifth week. There are panels where people on the upper levels are terrified of rain, because 6-8 apartments are leaking. Many small - money people, pensioners, or young families live in the housing estates. Without the help of the state, they have no hope of modernising their obsolete apartment built in the early '70s. The Orbán government has made the panel program impossible because it has announced applications under conditions that were inexorable. The Fidesz management of Miskolc has assisted and supported failure investments instead, such as the reconstruction of the Castle of Diósgyőr, which is referred to as a torso, the conclusion of which is still doubtful and the badly built, energy-eating, non-profit-making Ellipsum Experience Bath. Meanwhile, Miskolc's housing population is rapidly dying. It's enough to walk through the city, you can see how much the building needs to be refurbished. Time is pressing because the youngest panel apartments are 40 years old, so in this area Miskolc is at 24 hours. The only hope left for the city is the DK panel program. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2023-07-03-303	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Zoltán Varga also applied for the post-meeting speech from the DK Group. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-07-03-304	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Nationalization, party state, yelling propaganda. You know those words, don't you? Of course they are familiar, because we have all experienced them once in the modern history of our country. And, well, we've also seen how this ends: in the vast majority of cases, total bankruptcy. Suppressive systems use the party state as a whip, and they also use nationalization as a whip. Of course, the nationalized property was regularly distributed, and the rest was destroyed. And today again, this old, scratchy plate is spinning: it is a dictatorship again, and what a surprise, they are renationalizing. The end result will be neither, nor can it be anything else. Perhaps it is different in that nationalization here is not an endgame, but an intermediate stage, the first step to the Orbán family, the yachting buddies flying the government, the Mészáros useful little boxes playing all this wealth into the hands of the oligarchs. And, well, let's just say, whatever Orbán's sick system touches, it either steals or destroys. We have seen many of these examples in the past 13 years, and it is no different now. Nothing's changed. Unfortunately, it is the patronage service that is on the table, and what the system has just shredded; the service that is hungaricum was unique throughout the world, and it has worked perfectly for over a hundred years, and what even the dictatorship of the last decade in Orbán couldn't destroy, where the relationship between the municipalities and the service has long been more than a working relationship, and in many cases it was the women of protection who reported the last and only connection between the destitute and unsatisfy families and the otherwise dying and shattered health care. Of course, it's clear there were mistakes. We know that there have been careless or difficult protection zones, that there have been countless unfulfilled statuses. Everyone knew that. The government, however, did not seek to speed up or simply favour the filling of protective positions, but the already known bureaucratic, and I must add it in a completely nonsense, inadequate and insane way, with its command control tools, handing the defence service into the hands of the Minister of the Interior, as a military unit, as it will continue to operate it, or continue to operate it from 1 July. And what we were terrified of was that they began to transfer the women in charge from the well-functioning areas to the less equipped areas. Here we are now: on 1 July, the party state put its furry paw on the patronage service, all of which was protested by about a hundred municipalities known to me, including Fidesz, independent and obviously opponents, so that this would not happen, and decided that they did not wish to hand over their patroness' service, which they have managed perfectly. [[22.30]] But in the same way their protests have been expressed, we know this very well, because there have been many times in the House, for example, the well-known professional and advocacy women's organisations. And it's only been two or three days since the forced nationalization, but in the so far well-functioning protective system, there's already been a disturbance in three days. As far as we know, 24 and 21 of the very few women in charge have decided not to quit, but to retire. What did I tell you they could do anyway? What we were afraid of happened, in a few hours, from other settlements, has been replaced by the status that has become vacant here, with the result being quite clear, since there has already been a worse treatment for women, and it is obviously worse where they are taking over the women. The forced nationalization has taken place, and the question marks are growing. For example, how will the maintenance of service property then take place? Where appropriate, how will the movable equipment be replaced? For example, the municipalities have no legal opportunity to advance money payments for an institution that is no longer legally responsible for the maintenance of institutions. We have to tell you, and obviously, if the government representatives put their hands on their hearts, you will admit that Orbán's kleptocracy has managed to destroy a system that has worked well so far. With this step, the tasks of the democratic government, which will soon be led to Dobrev Klára, will be increased. Reorganize, restore the status of local government, and reorganize not only health care, not only education, but also protective service from the ruins. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2023-07-03-305	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the DK Group is Mrs Judit Ráczné Földi. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-07-03-306	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As usual, Viktor Orbán and András Cser-Palkovics announced with a huge csinadatta in 2015 what great improvements will be made in the coming years in Székesfehérvár, under the programme "Modern Cities" in Székesfehérvár. The front page of the local press was straight up as follows: Viktor Orbán in Székesfehérvár with 20 billion promises. You know the saying that no one is so poor that they can't promise. They take the cars underground at Zichy Island, they build a multifunctional hall, they develop the hospital, they turn Börgönd into a small plane airport, you could say sausage becomes a fence. Eight years later, in March 2023, János Lázár reported that the program had been shut down. Now there were no live broadcasts, no mayor press conferences, and a program ended quietly. Times have changed a lot. János Lázár is no longer negotiating the closure of the programme, and not the representative of the government is travelling to the mayors, but they must go up to the minister. In Székesfehérvár, as in many other settlements, more than one third of the great developments promised will certainly not be realised, 13 percent of them have been completed as they are now. In order to improve the quality of life, the car traffic at Zichy Island would have been underground. The idea, which was completely out of place, did not even reach the stage of planning; in this case, perhaps even great luck. Just like the reconstruction of the Black Eagle Hotel with the patina is cancelled. Instead, in June 2022, the mayor of the city expected ideas from the Székesfehérvár people about the fate of the building. It has been almost 30 years since the Black Eagle Hotel, also known as Pilvax in Fehérvár, has been empty. Its renovation would have increased the tourist attraction of the city; it didn't matter either. High school campus doesn't even happen. Originally, the high school campus, which focuses on sports and arts, would have been able to accommodate 2,500 students in Székesfehérvár from HUF 16 billion in 2017 prices, ending in 2020. The project has not even started, the costs have already increased to HUF 30-32 billion; however, the overpriced NER companies have a major role to play. The government therefore left the original subsidy amount and finally approved a school reconstruction programme. The difference is quite noticeable. The promised housing programme has not even been launched, with the aim of increasing the city's competitiveness, keeping the workforce; it has not become anything. The planning of the development of Börgönd Airport started in 2021, i.e. nothing happened for six years. At its meeting in May 2023, the City Assembly decided to reopen the procurement procedure for the design of the airport. When will this become a functioning airport? You don't know the answer. However, it is no surprise that the multifunctional sports hall will be built. The government provides a net grant of HUF 35 billion for the investment. The facility is built by István Garancsi, Viktor Orbán's good friend, so NER will benefit. When planning the investment, they talked about a total of 7 billion, which is slowly reaching 50 billion. I wonder who's gonna run it and maintain it. The roads of Székesfehérvár are becoming increasingly difficult, especially in peak times traffic jams are common. Since 2014, Székesfehérvár people have been promised that the so-called Auchan roundabout will be expanded. However, it is now clear that all promises have been a deception. This investment was no longer included in the list published by János Lázár's wallet, which was suspended by the wallet. The expansion of the city's other important transport routes has not even been mentioned. The deadline for the construction of the M81 road for the M0 relief is 31 August 2032, i.e. far beyond sight. According to DK, it is not necessary to build stadiums or multifunctional halls, but rather to implement improvements that make people's daily lives easier. We need to reduce jams, unnecessary expectations, environmental damage. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2023-07-03-307	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker was Mr Szabolcs Szabó, representing Momentum. Here you go.
u2023-07-03-308	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It hasn't been a week, exactly six days since it appeared on the news that the government has been conducting advanced negotiations on a chemical waste disposal facility designed for Sooksár. This negotiation was continued with Chinese regional government representatives, private companies. And in order to avoid any misunderstanding, it is worth noting that this is written down by investigative journalists who do not usually err, what they have described so far has always proved to be true, so I think we should leave the Fake News. One thing is certain: Soroksar, the surrounding districts, and even the whole of Budapest have become quite outraged over the past few days. In a few days, thousands of people signed our petition. So it is quite clear that the Soroksarias and the people of Budapest thank you very much, but they do not ask. In order to detect the magnitude, according to the leaked news, they not only want to solve the material supply of the Hungarian battery plants from here, they not only want to fix the raw material supply and supply of the European battery plants, but also other chemical goods via Hungary. This is 24,000 railway trains, two million containers, all in the immediate vicinity of residential areas. What has happened since then, what can be done, and what do we expect as a sorority? As a representative of the Soroksarias, what can I convey to you, what do we expect from the government? On the one hand, what happened, I think, is forward-looking in the sense that the Metropolitan Assembly reacted very quickly. Already the next day, at the meeting, which took place, fortunately at that time, a decision was taken to launch immediately the reclassification of the area potentially affected by the development into a forest, thus trying to make this poison hole impossible in spatial planning. [[22.40]] On the other hand, an agreement has been concluded with the district municipality with this decision that the restructuring of the district building regulations will also be launched. The Soroksár municipality is meeting this week. I very much hope that this decision will be passed on, and I also hope that a referendum will be issued in its own jurisdiction, which our Members will also initiate. Of course, I do not have any illusions, as the government is able to classify such investments as of particular public interest, and to neglegate settlement tools. However, I think that both the government and Fidesz have received a clear signal, and the indignation is clear to everyone, that the Soroksarias and the Budapesters do not want such investments, so they do not want the government to start tricking, lie, negotiate in smoky rooms, because this is what happens. These battery companies are not usually reported as an investor and begin to negotiate in public, but we always find out in hindsight that a new battery factory has been announced. In all likelihood, this process is also taking place in Soroksár in the case of Chemical Goods Storage and Deponia. Because of this, I can only speak as the government does: I do not ask, but I say and call. It is quite clear that we Soroksarias do not ask for this investment, so I call on the government not to think about installing it here, so there is no need for such landfills in Soroksár near the residential area. Thank you so much, take him somewhere else. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-07-03-309	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work, thank you for keeping the record, thank you for the work of the staff of the Parliamentary Office. Meeting day's closed. The Parliament will resume its work at 9 a.m. Good night, everyone.
