u2023-07-07-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. We'll start our work. Dear Parliament, The 3rd meeting of the 2nd Special Meeting of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, notary Béla Mihálffy and Sándor Berki will be of assistance to me. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. Please, as soon as you have your seat, check that your card has been placed in the polling machine. Dear Parliament, Following is the T/4181. on Hungary's central budget for 2024. Final vote of bill No 1. CXCIV of 2011 on Hungary's economic stability. Act T4181/471, and the Rules of Procedure of the House of Decisions, the President of the National Assembly submitted by the national Parliament. The Single Budget Act No 1 was sent to the President of the Fiscal Council. Opinion of the Council on the grant of preliminary consent T-4181/479. Number 2 is available on the network. I would like to welcome Dr. Árpád Kovács, President of the Fiscal Council, to whom the House Rule of Decision 96. In accordance with paragraph 2a of Section 2a, I now give the floor. Mr. President, please.
u2023-07-07-1	Dear Parliament, [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Mr President, Dear Minister and Secretary of State, On 3 July 2023 the Speaker of Parliament sent a single bill on Hungary's central budget for 2024 requesting the opinion of the Fiscal Council on compliance with the sovereign debt rule and the prior consent of the Fundamental Law to the final vote on the bill. On the basis of its examination, the Council took the following decision at its meeting on 6 July 2023. It concluded that the amendments proposed for adoption in the Single Budget Act do not alter the planned cash flow deficit as the total revenue and expenditure of the budget of the central subsystem for 2024 will be reduced by the same amount. Consequently, the planned amount of government debt and, similarly, the so-called deficit in terms of profit or loss are not changed. The Council took note of the Parliament's vote on the legislative proposals for the increase in tax law and fines necessary for the performance of budgetary revenue, and the amendments adopted only slightly increase the risk of overachievement of expenditure. The Council took note of the 66.7 percent of the government debt indicator planned for 31 December 2024 in the draft single budget law on Hungary's central budget for 2024; it was established in accordance with the provisions of the Stability Act, in line with the economic and public finances processes underlying the bill. After the value of the sovereign debt indicator calculated by the end of 2024 is 3 percentage points lower than the expected value by the end of 2023, the requirement of the Fundamental Law is met. The Council thus gave its consent to the adoption of the central budget for 2024 in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Stability Act. Dear Parliament, Please allow me to give a brief justification for the decision of the Council, in accordance with its mandate. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] The framework of the sovereign debt rule is defined by the Fundamental Law as follows: . As long as the government debt exceeds half of the total domestic product, Parliament may only adopt a central budget law containing a reduction in the ratio of the government debt to the total domestic total product. The bill also complies with this rule in the light of the existing risks. The Stability Act also provides for a requirement for debt to reduce the debt-to-GDP ratio by at least 0,1 percentage points. According to the single bill, if circumstances do not ultimately lead to the identified risks, this indicator may decrease to a much greater extent next year. On the basis of the Council's assessment, it considered that the significant planned reduction in the sovereign debt ratio would provide a considerable reserve to ensure that the risks indicated do not substantially jeopardise the reduction in the sovereign debt ratio. The Council could therefore give its preliminary consent to the final vote on the proposal for a single budget law. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, In the process of the Council, he followed the parliamentary discussion of the draft budget law. He felt that the total revenue and expenditure of the budget of the central subsystem for 2024 would be reduced by HUF 20,5 billion in the same amount. The fulfilment of the revenue estimates of the bill required a number of amendments to tax and other laws. The Council notes that these amendments have been accepted by the Parliament. Taking into account the government's response to the draft budget, the Council considers that it should finally remind it of a number of the attention raised in the draft budget law. Among these, the risk of lower household consumption than expected in 2023, higher than predicted inflation and their budget expenditure and impact in 2024 is stressed. [[10.40]] The Council considered that inflation had started to decline in February 2023 and that disinflationary was becoming increasingly marked compared to the January summit. However, the average annual inflation of 15 per cent projected by the budget for this year is expected to continue to be higher, increasing the likelihood of an additional pension increase in November 2023, while raising the base for pension expenditure in 2024. The drop in domestic consumption, which is higher than expected, could be accompanied by a lower than planned increase in VAT revenue in 2023, which undermines the base of the budget for 2024. The Council also maintained its observation that there is a risk that maintaining the functioning of budgetary bodies could require a large amount of unplanned expenditure over the course of 2024 without targeted savings and task rationalisation measures. As the budget accounts for the cohesion and recovery resources of the EU budget cycle 2021-2027, the Council considered it still necessary for the implementation of the budget to arrive at the planned time and amount. Dear Parliament, The Budget Council finally took note of the non-payment of losses from the Hungarian National Bank because, according to the letter of the Minister of Finance dated 3 July 2023, the Government decided, in agreement with the Hungarian National Bank, to initiate the amendment of the Act on the National Bank of Hungary. The intention to amend the European Central Bank, which still needs to be consulted, is to compensate for the negative equity capital of the central bank with a positive result expected in later years. As a result, no real loss compensation would take place in the coming years, so that in 2024 the deficit target would not be compromised by 2.9 percent of GDP. Dear Parliament, When I thank you for your attention, allow me to wish you again a pleasant summer to relax. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-07-07-2	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4181/471. Proposal for a single budget law No 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the proposal for a single budget law by 121 votes in favour, 44 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Following the year 2022, the list of the ministries of Hungary was published in the Official Journal of the European Union. T/4545. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. I would remind you that, according to our decision on Monday, the bill will be dealt with in an exceptional procedure by the Parliament. T/4545/3. T/4545/4. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/4545/3. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 122 votes in favour, 35 votes against and 9 abstentions. The final vote now follows, in which we decide on the text of the bill as amended by the summarised amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4545. The text of the proposed amendment, as amended by the summary amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 122 votes in favour, 35 votes against and 9 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions, and I'm now ordering a two-minute technical break. Those who leave wish you a pleasant summer rest and good work. [[Several Members leave the Chamber.]] (Recess: 10.47-10.49) President: István Jakab Note: Béla Mihálffy and Sándor Berki)
u2023-07-07-3	Dear Parliament, At the end of the discussion of our agendas today, we now have the speeches after the agenda. I will wait for the historical photos to be taken, and then, with all due respect, my fellow Members, who no longer wish to participate in our further work, will, if possible, leave the Chamber quietly. Thank you. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr President Novák, the Group of Mi Hungary, spoke with the title of "Active Public Affairs." You have the floor, Congressman. [[10.50]]
u2023-07-07-4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Rainbow flag can be placed on schools and kindergartens after local governments. After initiating the ban on the inclusion of the LGBTQP symbol in public buildings in my bill, no one supported it in the Committee on Justice of Parliament, unfortunately the governing parties also voted against it. Similarly, our country is the only party that demands the ban on the homosexual propaganda parade, because we do not support the support and tolerance policy of the Gyurcsányek or Orbáns in the case of the marches promoting all kinds of sexual deviantism. Yet, the government always succeeds in our protests, which again knelt down in front of the homosexual lobby this year. Instead of their provocative march, the anti-demonstration of the Hungarian Movement was banned by the police, although both parties submitted their announcements at the same time as possible in the first second. The organizers of the LGBTQP-propaganda parade can thank you for the two-thirds victory of Fidesz, because the writhing is not officially banned. According to the so-called Child Protection Act, homosexual propaganda should not be carried out in a visible way for children, but in fact, the government tolerates it in the same way as the bannering of rainbow flags on public institutions. It's a hoax, the Child Protection Act! Homosexual Propaganda parades also exhaust the definition of disorderlyness, as there are a number of flagrantly anti-communicative behaviours that cause others to stumble. Yet our reports are rejected. Dr. András Falus, geneticist and academic, also made it clear that in the field of homosexuality, I quote, the existence of a genetic background means an increased tendency and not destiny. So the way homosexuals reproduce is clearly propaganda. [[Dr. István Apáti laughs.]] Which our country would put an end to, at least, to reducing the number of fashion homosexuals. This sexual deviance is an unnatural biological dead end; like a drug, it can bring pleasure to some, but not lasting happiness widely. According to a study by Ákos Tárkányi, former senior research fellow at the KSH Institute for Population Studies, alcohol was nine times as common among teenage homosexuals, and cocaine consumption was 19 times as common and suicide attempts were one and a half times as common among youths who did not claim to be homosexuals. So it's empirically proven that homosexuality doesn't make you happy, but it can be cured. With psychotherapy, heterosexual adjustment can be gradually formed. Many ex-homosexuals today are happily married heterosexually. I wouldn't deprive them of this opportunity, so I wouldn't deprive them of recovery. I know the homosexual lobbie doesn't think it's a disease, but it's a good thing that people with mental disorders decide whether they're sick or not. Sick pride. Let's take a look at this. He had sex with a tree in front of a male passerby in Debrecen. Dendrophile or something? I'm not an LGBTQXYZ expert. [[Dr. István Apáti laughs.]] Another rumor is that a man was depraved by a car, and the CCTV footage came back after he destroyed dozens of cars' gas hatches. Mechanophilia, or what the hell is this? ! There's still necrophilia, and we could continue the acronym that started with LGBT for a long time. Do you think they'll be supportive of eating people? ! After all, it's just a feeding habit! It is a scam, it is a scam, Honourable Parliament, that the LGBTQstb.-lobby represents itself as a happy, cheerful, positive community who only want their rights. The reality is that this leader is a sick, twisted, damaged society that wants revenge on normal, successful, healthy people. In contrast to the patient's pride proclaimed by the aggressive movement of homosexualism, they should bear their fate with dignity, not bragging about their deviance, lying normal about what is not, nor demanding the adoption of children, without wanting to be in a normal relationship. Their rights are still equal, but additional rights are not supported by the Hungarian Movement, we are opposed to the law of unnatural, diseased deviants, from the marriage of homosexual couples to the pedophilia; let me not list them. Dear Parliament, Yes, those with sexual deviance have exactly the same rights as any other human being. For example, any homosexual man can marry a woman, and they can have a child, who will not be taken away by the state simply because the husband has sexual deviance. They have no legal disadvantage compared to other people. They demand extra rights, which we cannot afford for the LGBTQP movement. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-07-07-5	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Member Mrs Eszter Vitalyos, Deputy Minister, Fidesz Group also applied for a post-the-meeting speech. How is the development of transport in Pilis-Dunakanyar? You have the floor, Madam Deputy Minister.
u2023-07-07-6	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Pilis-Dunakanyar! Today's world talks a lot about equality, but much less about justice. In Father Feri Paul's lectures he often says: "What is equal may not be just, and what is just is not necessarily equal. " In 2021, by asking the people of Pilis-Dunakanyar, we created a dynamic strategy until 2030, which revealed that 86 percent of the residents of our home, i.e. the overwhelming majority, believe that transport development is the most important task in our region. This House should know that the population of our region has grown to 115 thousand in recent decades, but we are still forced to use the infrastructure of the 1980s in transport. Today, the daily turnover of our highways 10 and 11 is the order of the hundred thousand. I believe that population growth can also be seen as an opportunity. I see families, young workers and parents with small children who have chosen this wonderful country as their home, want to protect and pass it on to the next generation. Believe me, we in Pilis-Dunakanyar are not looking for excuses, we are looking for solutions, and we are asking for help. As an agglomeration area, under left-wing governments, we have lost most of the EU's development, and that was all, I think, but it is not fair. Finally, we went through a great deal of struggle in Brussels to get away from Budapest, but we have not received EU funds for the effective intervention of opposition colleagues; that is all, but it is not fair. Then came the war, the energy crisis, the economic difficulties with sanctions, and the government had to decide on the defense budget. Then again, we nodded understandingly and took our fate into our own hands. We have developed an action plan and are trying to get through this period with alternative solutions. Szentendre, Budakalász and Pomáz mayors of the largest affected settlements in the region have repeatedly sat down with ministry officials. The relevant working group of the Pilis-Dunakanyar Association has developed a number of alternatives and proposed to initiate or continue planning and rationalise the transport organisation. With the help of the government, we really try to relieve our main roads, which is why it is very important for us: the development of the railway network, the setting up of bunk trains, water transport, HÉV and bicycle transport infrastructure, but the biggest problem of the agglomeration remains the saturation of the main roads. Dear House, The people of Pilis-Dunakanakamari are smart, hardworking and stick together. We understand that government investments have been suspended and reviewed equally. We are pleased to confirm that the development of the Szentendre HÉV can also start, but I strongly ask the transport government to take into account the demands of those living in the agglomeration in the investment plan on the basis of justice. With the same determination, I call on the opposition to stop preventing the arrival of EU funds due to the country. The only viable way forward is through action and cooperation, in which I ask for your support. I, as I have always done, continue to work in this spirit for the people of Pilis-Dunakanyar. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[11.00]]
u2023-07-07-7	Thank you very much, Madam Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Member of the LMP Group, spoke with the title of "Active Affairs." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-07-07-8	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, A few minutes ago, the majority of Parliament adopted the budget for next year, and we know exactly the budget figures for this year. These are the figures that clearly show exactly what government policy means, what steps the government takes and what steps it does not take. Unfortunately, from these figures, it is clear exactly what the consequences of this policy will be. I would like to briefly assess this from a point of view, in terms of water management and water affairs. These decisions show that the government has specifically renounced the safety of drinking water supply in Hungary, the government has also renounced the protection of our groundwater and continues to dry out Hungary and drain Hungary. I'd like to support my claims by numbers. We know exactly that the water utility system for drinking water in Hungary is on the verge of collapse. This is not claimed by opposition politicians, but by professionals, and unfortunately everyone across the country can experience this in practice. In 2010, after a really very bad governance, this government took on a very difficult legacy, but, unfortunately, the situation in the sector has deteriorated. Since then, the number of pipe breaks has doubled, the proportion of water systems with a proper rating is now below 20 per cent, and the network loss is close to 25 per cent, so nearly 20 per cent of the drinking water produced simply runs out without any use because of the bad pipelines. The Prime Minister has now acknowledged that a minimum of HUF 3000 billion is missing in order to ensure that this system can be operated in the medium term. All over the country, I think we all see that the problems are getting worse, there are more and more pipe breaks, and now in the summer period we are afraid that there will be more and more water shortages in the country for days. One of the worst examples we can all experience is the case of Szigetvár. Here you can see that the system problems have been such a high level that, in particular, intervention has now been a long time in a major part of the city, that there is no specific use of fixed drinking water, and we do not yet see that this issue can be solved by professionals. In this situation, it is quite clear that the kind of forced nationalisation that the government had foreseen does not represent any solution. This, I find, has already been acknowledged by the municipalities that have voluntarily handed over the water utilities to the government, and can endorse their own decision by the cities, by the way, many cities, including those pro-government cities, who have not handed over the water utilities. Neither this year's budget nor next year's budget will show the resources needed to keep this water utility network on track on the brink of collapse, both because of economic problems and to start substantial maintenance work in terms of degraded infrastructure. Only this year, we have indicated this, and we have already tabled an amendment to this year's budget, we would need 200 billion surplus, and next year's budget would need such additional amounts to start up meaningful maintenance work. What we see in next year's budget is a $50 billion item that is specifically linked to the provision of water for an industrial development, a battery plant. This is also seen elsewhere in the budget for this year as a few billion forints to support the maintenance work of the water utility system for the drinking water supply of Hungarian people.In contrast, in the case of the Göd battery plant, the government is building water utilities of 30 billion, and in the case of the Ivanča factory a similar amount is being spent, as well as 30 billion of taxpayers' money. This system will not be able to survive, it will not work, and besides the medium-term collapse of the drinking water system, it will certainly have a very serious impact on the protection of groundwater and our water bases, because unfortunately these water bases are already at risk. It should also be made clear to everyone that if these water bases are contaminated, they will cause irreparable damage. This is incredibly irresponsible, we believe, on the part of the government. On the other hand, it is also a very serious omission that although the profession and the government are increasingly recognising the unacceptable and harmful nature of the type of water management that has been taking place in Hungary for a long time, there is still more water flowing out of the country than it has arrived. Technically, it's drying out the country, draining the country. A completely different approach would be needed here, a water retention water management would be needed instead of rapid drainage of the waters, and basically water retention in the countryside should be achieved. This would not have significant infrastructure costs, but what is necessary is not guaranteed by the government either. What is our most important task is to continue the kind of professional dialogue that has already started, and to help those who support and demonstrate the system of water retention in the countryside to sit down at a table with the decision-makers so that we can carry out an essential task for the future of Hungarian young people, the Hungarian nation. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2023-07-07-9	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Speaking after the agenda Mr.Péter Jakab, independent: I remain in the People's Party! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-07-07-10	Thank you very much. Colleagues! Well, the thing is, you guys have some accounting to do. You know that, don't you? Not to me, but to the people. 'Cause you guys promised me something before the election. Remember? They promised that if they could continue to govern, there would be no austerity here, there would be money for everything. That's what you promised? That's what they promised. Fellow Members, you lied, you tricked your own people. There's no money here, there's austerity. The cost reduction has become a brutal gas price increase, we are the tenth in the world in food prices, inflation is higher than in war-torn Ukraine, savings are taxed, gasoline taxes are raised, salaries and pensions are worth less today than a year ago. You know what they all call it? By cutting me down. So that you can understand: Hungary is not going forward, it is going back. Colleagues, if you had a tiny ridge, a little honor, you would stand before the people, apologize, and give people the opportunity to decide the fate of this country in a new election. Decide in a new election: keep the Fidesz, keep the austerity, or finally come up with an expert government that will bring EU money home and start a real crisis management. Because as long as this country is run by a thief, there's no EU money coming here. You know that, I know that, we all know that. You obviously don't care.
u2023-07-07-11	Congressman, you're speaking at the house of the country. Hold on to that, please.
u2023-07-07-12	Then I'll continue in light of that. So, fellow Members, you are out of your minds. No one here is going to trust a thief with public money. Once again, we all know, but that's not what you're interested in. Obviously, he doesn't care because he's so excited that it doesn't matter if the money comes from Brussels or Aunt Mary's wallet, the point is that at the end of the day, this money will end up in your pocket. If Brussels does not give money, it will be taken from the Hungarians. The more expensive life is, the more so that they can build the stadiums and the small train and the 60 Puszta estate, and the Prime Minister can go on a military plane-related visit. Meanwhile, people keep coming to me and saying that Peter, the next time you see this Viktor kid, ask him, but seriously, all the money he took from us in 13 years, he'll take it to his grave. Ask him if he hasn't stolen enough, he still doesn't have enough money. Obviously, we all know the answer: this Prime Minister is not basically about money anymore, that's already done, he stole a country for himself, it's about power. His Majesty wants the whole world to know his name, and the thing is, he slowly knows it. Just like everyone knows the worst kid in the Pooh Group, because he's the one who pours the cocoa all the time and flips over the table. Well, everyone knows who Viktorka is, but no one wants to sit next to him. That's the thing. You have achieved that today your own Western allies are not very willing to sit at the same table with us, because they see that the Hungarian Prime Minister is out of control. That's a bad thing to say, fellow Members. But Viktor Orbán literally went mad in power, became addicted to power...
u2023-07-07-13	Congressman!
u2023-07-07-14	...and now the whole country's gonna go for it. That's the thing.
u2023-07-07-15	Congressman [[Peter James: I have a proposal, Mr President.]] I'll take the floor from you if you don't end this pamphlet like this. You speak in the house of the country, speak in a manner worthy of it, I ask you.
u2023-07-07-16	Sir, here's the suggestion. So, on the People's Party, he suggests, and if necessary, that we will really fight at EU level, so that one person can be Prime Minister twice at the most, then rest or treatment. It must be the Prime Minister. Colleagues, do you support him? Because the people do, and so do I. I'll stay on the side of the people!
u2023-07-07-17	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Zsolt Nyitrai, Fidesz Group, spoke with the title of our current affairs. You have the floor.
u2023-07-07-18	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the word and opportunity. In my post-meeting speech, I wish to address current issues concerning everyone as the closing of the summer session. The Hungarian Parliament adopted Hungary's budget for 2024 minutes ago. The system on which the Orbán government stated, namely that we will accept the next year's budget not in the last days of the year, but in the summer, in my opinion it will give the municipalities, the state, the communities in Hungary a predictable, predictable and secure budget for various social groups. [[11.10]] Dear Parliament, Everyone must see that this budget, which has now been adopted, has been in very difficult circumstances: more than a year of war in our neighbourhood, and Brussels has reacted badly, imposed sanctions, which have only put people in a more difficult position, people who cannot otherwise do anything. The sanctions were followed by inflation worldwide. At this point, too, I stress that the Government of Hungary, the vast majority of Hungarian people, is in favour of peace. It seems that the sanctions that have so far failed have not brought us any closer to the end of the war, we need an immediate truce, peace talks, and peace to stop unnecessary military and civilian sacrifices. Peace immediately destroys high energy prices and inflation. Dear Parliament, This is the situation in which we adopted the budget for the following year. This is a defence budget, a defence budget that protects the country's security, families, jobs, pensions, and guarantees the security of the public. In such a situation, the Government of Hungary does not give in to its principles, we pay attention to families, we stand up for pensioners and their benefits. Ladies and gentlemen, The war and the failed Brussels sanctions policy have led to a significant increase in energy prices across Europe. However, thanks to the measures that have been maintained since 2013, Hungarian families pay the cheapest energy prices throughout the European Union. This is also a great help to our pensioner countrymen, as more forints can be left in their wallets. There are over two million pensioners in our country. The civil government led by Viktor Orbán made an alliance with pensioners before 2010; then we said that whatever happens inside or outside the country, we always stand up for the interests of pensioners and protect their benefits. This was the case, for example, because we gave back the 13th month pension previously taken by the left in an increased form. If we look at the evolution of pensions since 2010, I can say that while an average pension amounts to 97 thousand forints in 2010, in June 2023 it is more than 209 thousand forints. We've been able to pay the pensioners five times so far. This, I think, was very helpful to them in their daily lives. And at this point, I also stress that the pension premium rules were the same during left-wing governments, and left-wing governments never paid a pension premium for the elderly at any time. Overall, we can say that the Government of Hungary is on the side of the people, is on the side of pensioners, stands up for their interests and benefits, and the budget we have just adopted also provides pensioners with the support we promised earlier. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2023-07-07-19	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik Group also applied for a post-the-meet speech:.How long? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-07-07-20	Mr President, Dear House, Following the approved budget, the pro-government representatives will obviously praise from their own perspective the package they voted for, but at the same time I must draw attention to the fact that the Hungarian future is missing at several points and there is a lack of a vision of this budget, for example, proposals targeting normal wages in almost all, and messages to Hungarian young people that would point to a fairer, better future. Consider, for example, the area of housing, where a public-based rental program has been missing for many years, I might say, in a decade's perspective, but also in this budget there are no points of inviting Hungarians to move abroad because of the pressure of higher income and higher salary. But housing has become a luxury item in Hungary, and in European comparison, it is perhaps the most expensive place to pay a rent, with an average rent of HUF 225 thousand in Budapest. If we compare this with the rather modest salaries behind which perhaps only Bulgarian salaries can be found in the statistics, then we can see that it is almost impossible for a young couple who start their lives or think about starting a family, or even young couples, to think about anything else beyond housing. We also see that such horror districts have appeared in the capital, the V. and the II. In the district, apartments of 320-330 thousand HUF have actually become ordinary, which is terrifying. A lot of people might think that the problem is capital, but it's not like that at all. Veszprém, Szombathely, Tatabánya, Székesfehérvár and other cities, whether in Debrecen, between 150 and 175 thousand forints, move around the average rents, and in Miskolc, Békéscsaba, Salgótarján there are very, very rare rents below 100 thousand forints, plus rents. We can see that if we compare all this with very, very modest salaries, then for a Hungarian youth from the coercion to migration abroad, it may only remain to spend 15 or 20 years as a bank loaner. However, the government has already abolished state aid for housing savings, so many of them can no longer become bank-credited, because they cannot even save their share together. Meanwhile, real estate prices are booming: the domestic housing price index reached 256 per cent at the 2015 level. We've had a brutal price explosion, and we still don't have a rental program. We put the solution on the table almost a decade ago. Our Castle would be able to raise 5-10 thousand new-built apartments per year; these would be moved up to half the market price. After a few years, it is necessary to examine how these properties can become the property of the affected Hungarian families at cost, in the hope of prosperity in the homeland, as a result of forced departure abroad. We must also state that there are 600 thousand vacant properties in Hungary. Obviously, a sane person doesn't want to touch private property, although there are attempts to get a lease on these apartments through housing agencies. They're still in embryonic stages. At the same time, of the state and municipal owners, if we can only renovate one tenth of them and make them available in the form of a rental apartment, we already make the dream and idea of living in the homeland accessible to 50-60 thousand Hungarian people and Hungarian families. And what we see is that you can't let this happen, you can't let it happen. When this budget was adopted by the government, not by Hungarian young people, not by drawing home and calling home foreign workers, and there are some among them, let's say, former foreign exchange credentials, who should be moaning their unrealistic burdens on the exchange of forints from a Western European salary, but they are as bank-credited as before; some young people who wanted to start a family here, wanted to have children here, but forced to do so abroad. Therefore, we should not import labour from outside, but bring home, call home, entice those who belong to this country, who carried this national economy on their backs, without whom there is no Hungary, without whom the Hungarian future cannot be imagined. The point is, therefore, that the opportunity to thrive in the homeland should be due to all Hungarians, and this budget does not reflect this at all. The only thing I can tell you is that the solution package is ready on the front of the housing, it is on the table, it requires political will and intention, so that the Hungarian future remains, so that the opportunity to thrive in the homeland will be passed on to all Hungarians. Thank you for your attention.
u2023-07-07-21	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Dávid Dócs, Mi Hazank Group, asked to speak with the title of Current Public Affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-07-07-22	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, I think that we have managed to raise public opinion in a number of ways this week, since the adoption of both the status law and the current budget will give rise to a great deal of feedback, because most people think differently than my fellow Members who voted here. On the budget, too, if we are to be very precise, it can be said that it is not the budget that provides security, it is not a budget that is planned on a solid basis, but it is a budget that is planned, planned quickly and containing fictitious figures, as how to take seriously a budget that is planned with 6 percent inflation when inflation is nearly four times higher. And what we can see is that privatisation is practically revived, and it is rediscovering the moods, and the current Fidesz government is trying to sell the wealth of the Hungarian state again. [[11.20]] After all, we can see how the government wants to sell out the military and other state-owned resorts. We can see that, rather than buying the Hungarian soil, it would prevent foreign oligarchs from buying it, and the government would use its pre-emptive right to increase the Hungarian land assets, but it would also sell the existing land, which, by the way, I think should be a strategic security reserve, in a period of energy and food crisis such as this one. It may also be worth mentioning that MOL Waste has cemented itself for practically 35 years by destroying a lot of families and businesses. We can also see that almost no one can benefit from the formation they have introduced, the MOL and the government alone, as they will also receive extra income here. Let us look at the alternatives offered by the Hungarian Movement, and exactly what the problem is, how we have come to know that this budget is becoming more and more suffocating and why we are concerned that this state is moving towards its inability to function. Quite simply because we do not have an independent national economy, simply because the current government relies on foreign multinationals, it supports them with Hungarian taxpayers' money instead of trying to highlight our strengths, I cannot stress this enough. After all, we are an agricultural country, but unfortunately in agriculture, we can say that, compared to the prices in the last year, pre-scheduled buying prices have fallen to one third of the year, but the price of inputs has not decreased, but is constantly increasing, which is why farmers, as I said these days, have already made losses in the barley harvest, and unfortunately this is also expected in the harvest of additional crops. Therefore, Mi Hazank Movement believes that, based on our Virradat programme, Hungarian agriculture, the Hungarian manufacturing industry should be supported, based on our own national economy, and perhaps this would result in a different type of budget. And unfortunately, I could not devote time to him alone, because the number of our speeches has also given me, but I would like to talk about one very important thing in the second round, because here in the Hungarian Parliament we are debating on a weekly basis how we should still help the minorities who live here. However, we are not really aware of what is happening in our eastern neighbor, Transylvania, at present. It is quite shocking that the RMDSZ is practically the Transylvanian ally of the government, this political party, instead of standing up and defending the Russian military cemetery, has now reached an agreement with the Romanian party. As a result, it would appear that in our military cemetery in Uzvölgy, we must also accept that a Romanian memorial site is being built, despite the fact that the concrete crosses that were quickly erected in this military cemetery have been demolished in the last few days. They wanted to make it clear that the Romanians have a place there, too. History forgery has moved to another level, and evidence and investigations have determined that the Romanians have no place here. This is very disrespectful, as Hungarian soldiers are not allowed to rest in peace, and it is an open provocation that we can see here. Not to mention miles away, there's a cemetery with Romanian graves that practically no one takes care of, and that's what it's all about. For this reason, we think, as our Hungarian ally in Transylvania, the Hungarian Federation of Transylvania has announced, that this will not really bring us any closer to reconciliation, because this is a clearly tangible forgery of history. We are asking the Hungarian Government not only to provide financial support to Hungarians abroad, but indeed, we are also trying to protect our cultural values and our history, because if we do not, we will be lost. I wish everyone a good rest during the summer. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the benches of our country and the Jobbik.]]
u2023-07-07-23	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of our speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the first meeting of the Parliament's autumn session will take place as recommended by the House Committee. Thank you for your work. I wish all my fellow Members, the minority advocates, in their absence, the staff of the Parliamentary Office and all those who monitor our work, a pleasant summer time, a good rest and an effective work in the constituency as well. Thank you very much for your attention.
