u2023-03-01-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] I warmly welcome all of you and welcome all of you who are monitoring our work today. The 3rd day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that my fellow Members, László Földi and Sándor Berki, will help me as notaries. Dear Parliament, On 1 March, 1990, Hungary's new civil national security services, the Information Office and the National Security Office began operating as intelligence and counterintelligence bodies. This has been a significant development at the time of the change of regime, as the creation of a new democratic constitutional system has created the opportunity for national security services to be established in accordance with the principles of the rule of law. In 2001 the National Assembly, remembering this event, added 1 March to the list of commemorative days as the day of civil national security services, and in 2015 the holiday was also confirmed by law. From the very beginning, the services perform their task as defined in the Fundamental Law: they protect Hungary's independence and legal order. Over the past year, they have faced a major challenge: the war in our neighbourhood, and the arrival of tens of thousands of refugees in Hungary has multiplied their task and increased the burden on the stock. It had to be expected that some terrorist groups, organised criminals or counterintelligence services would try to get their people into Hungary using refugee flows, possibly increasing the number of crimes of trafficking in human beings and smuggling. The new challenges affected the staff of the intelligence, counter, data acquisition, technical, data protection or investigative authorities. In this changed security environment, the preservation, maintenance and continuous strengthening of the security of the state and society has become more important than before. The effective, state-of-the-art and sacrificial work of national security services serves this purpose. Ladies and gentlemen, During a period of war threats and threats, the work of national security services is valued. Today's Memorial Day offers us the opportunity to thank the staff of the services for their work in protecting the national sovereignty of our country and guaranteeing security and internal order. Thank you for your attention. Dear Parliament, It follows the XXV of 2022 on Hungary's central budget for 2023. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/2667. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. First, I will give the floor to Minister for Finance Mihály Varga, the rapporteur on the agenda, who will tell the expoze from here, from the platform, from the pulpit. I'll wait for Mr. Secretary to wake up here. [[Mihály Varga enters the platform.]] Thank you very much, Minister. You have the floor, please.
u2023-03-01-1	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Let's go back in time. When I was standing before you last summer, exactly on 22 June 2022, as a public defender of the budget, few people around the world thought that the war in our neighbourhood would still be taking its victims today. We Hungarians expected that our rapid economic recovery after the corona virus crisis could last. The budget was designed and adopted in the light of Article 21 of the Financial Regulation. In the first century, peace will be quickly restored in the middle of Europe, since we could not avoid the outbreak of war. However, once again it has been revealed that history does not stop, and it has also turned out that fast European peace is not necessarily a common global interest in our logic. The public opinion on the war has now turned around, and today we are talking about a year after its outbreak, there is now a prolonged war around the world. The prolonged war and the sanctions energy crisis have radically changed economic conditions, and the government has had to adapt the budget to these changes in order to protect families and the economy. In a dangerous situation, we had to act quickly, and the extraordinary legal order gave us the opportunity to make the necessary changes quickly and effectively. In December, the Government laid down amendments to the 2023 budget in an emergency regulation, which maintained the lines of the original budget. The provisions of the regulation were also tabled as a bill in January this year, so the Parliament can discuss them in the usual manner. [[9.10]] Let me put two notes in here anyway. In the 32 years since the change of regime, there were only seven years when Parliament did not change the budget of that year. So the economic situation and the farming conditions can change, and to do so, the budget for that year can and must be adjusted. My second point is that I led the Parliament's Committee on Budgets as an opposition representative for eight years. I've always felt it was important that this committee be able to comply with its mandate. [[Towards Zoltán Vajda entering the Chamber:]] I would also like to welcome Mr President, who has arrived in the Chamber, and I am talking about your committee, so I have always felt it important that this committee be able to comply with the powers of scrutiny which Parliament, by the way, authorizes. That is why I supported the initiative of the Government to inform the members of the committee of the planned changes before today's debate, so on 23 January this year the Ministry of Finance provided detailed information on the amendments. Dear House, After years of plague, the Russian-Ukrainian war has been going on for the second year in 2023, followed by sanctions for inflation and the energy crisis. The government's aim is to protect families, pensioners, jobs and the Hungarian economy, as well as to guarantee the security of Hungary. We are still not giving up on these objectives, although the instruments need to be modified. The budget for 2023 is a budget for public health, and this is even more true after the amendment. Our objectives can be summarised in the following main points: first, the government will continue to maintain the reduction of rent for all Hungarian households up to the average consumption and extend it to municipalities and businesses. Here on Monday, at the opening of the season session of Parliament, there was a debate on the extent to which this programme is extended to small and medium-sized enterprises. I would like to confirm here again that last year the government spends HUF 100 billion and HUF 120 billion this year to provide direct direct support to the energy intensive sector of small and medium-sized enterprises, helping them to protect against the energy crisis and energy prices. Secondly, the government protects family support, and we do not allow it at the most dangerous time. In fact, we are expanding the range of measures, so mothers with children before the age of 30 do not have to pay personal income tax until the average wage level. Thirdly, the budget also covered the 15 percent pension increase in January, which also affected the 13th month pension. The amount of pensions has been doubled since 2010 and their real value has improved by 20 percent. Fourthly, it is an important objective to protect one million new jobs that have been created since 2010 and therefore work protection programmes will continue in 2023 and we will keep the taxes on work low. This is also linked to the continuation of careers programmes, and this year there will be wage increases in education and health, and I will also mention them in more detail. It is also a priority to preserve Hungary's security, improve defence and strengthen public security, which is guaranteed by the Fund for Defence established in the budget and maintained this year. Last but not least, the government also increased the central reserve. We will increase this amount from HUF 170 billion to HUF 255 billion, precisely because of the availability of sufficient reserves to manage unexpected events that occur during the year, even under uncertain circumstances. Dear House, We are living in a time of danger, the European economy is moving towards recession, so we are doing everything we can to avoid the economic downturn and improve the balance indicators. We will continue to reduce the budget deficit in 2023, based on the bill submitted, the planned deficit this year is 3.9 percent of gross domestic product. It is recalled that last year this was 6.1 percent, so we are making a significant adjustment. We will also continue to significantly reduce public debt-to-GDP ratio. Last year, we were able to reduce government debt more than expected, from 76.8 to 72.9. This year, we're going to take this indicator below 70 percent again. Here I would remind you that in 2010 it was still over 80 percent, in the last year before the pandemic it was 65.5 percent, and now we will be back on this path. Finally, the government decided that if gross domestic product increases above 1.5 per cent in 2023, the additional revenue will be used to further reduce the deficit, accelerating the achievement of a deficit of 3 per cent or less. In view of the energy crisis with sanctions, the government continues to manage in a cost-effective manner, which is what we have ordered in the budgetary bodies. Here I just mention that last year we reduced gas consumption to public institutions by 40 percent and electricity consumption by 15 percent. This is valid again this year, setting a good example for other institutions. It can therefore be said that, despite the war in the neighbourhood and its sanctions, the government is committed to improving balance indicators and reducing deficit and debt levels. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to briefly address the economic processes and challenges that set out in 2023. Following the crisis caused by the Crown Virus pandemic, the government's comprehensive measures have proven successful in re-launching the economy. The increase continued in 2022, although the outbreak of the Russian-Ukrainian war and the failed Brussels sanctions policy in response created extremely unfavourable conditions. What helped the economy grow last year? Let me mention four things: high employment, wage growth, increasing consumption and investment. This morning, the Statistical Office announced the latest investment data you have already seen, and in Hungary the companies made a large number of investments, which was complemented by the investments related to the extended family home creation discount. An investment of HUF 15 409 billion was made last year in the Hungarian economy, never since the change of regime. Consumption was reinforced by a significant increase in the minimum wage and public wage, family tax reimbursement, tax relief for people under the age of 25, pension increase and pension premium. As a result of the good performance in the first half of last year, the Hungarian economy grew by 4.6 percent last year, despite the slowdown from the third quarter, this is much higher than the average of the European Union. We can also avoid a relapse this year, thanks to government measures. We calculate that 1-1.5% increase is expected in the Hungarian economy. I must add, of course, that there has never been so much uncertainty in planning, that growth prospects are surrounded by a number of risks: a prolonged war, an increase in the energy crisis in Europe, a further increase in sanctions inflation or financing costs. Of course, let us also add positive risks: we expect that the performance of the car industry can be improved, net exports can be strengthened, international tourism and transport services can be improved, imports can be more moderate and manufacturing investments in recent years can also be launched. Let me just mention it as a personal experience: last week we were able to hand over Hungary's largest mill industrial centre, and yesterday I was at an investment ceremony in Hatvan where we handed over the country's latest and largest bakery, built with HUF 20 billion investment. [[9.20]] Dear Parliament, The government has responded actively and actively to the economic challenges caused by the prolonged war and the energy crisis. Consider the measures we have taken so far to protect families and businesses. We have temporarily introduced price-stops, which will be maintained until inflation begins to decline noticeably. We are giving the European Union's largest premium for families. We support energy intensive companies, we set up a factory rescue program, we adapted and expanded the Széchenyi card programme to new needs, and we launched a reindustrialization credit programme with a HUF 700 billion credit line. The Hungarian budget was the strongest asset behind all of these. It can therefore be seen that by amending the budget for 2023, we can also provide the necessary resources to achieve the most important objectives in the context of changed circumstances. Dear House, We do not plan to radically modify our goals that we adopted last year. The main objectives of 2023 remain unchanged. I would like to highlight four of these areas: energy protection, support for families, pensions and wage increases in education and health. I'll start with the rent reduction. Due to sanctions, the international prices of energy sources have risen to historical heights since the beginning of the war, and Hungary's energy bill has increased from EUR 7 billion to EUR 17 billion in one year. The government will do everything in its power to maintain the reduction in the amount of the average consumption that was introduced ten years ago. As a key element of the budget, the government set aside HUF 2610 billion in the extended Rezségvédelmi Fund instead of the originally planned HUF 670 billion. The main contribution to the fund is payments from industries and large companies for which a significant extra profit has been created. This includes payments in the energy sector, mining fees, airline contributions, telecommunications tax and pharmaceutical tax. The Rezsivédélység Fund can be used to reduce the cost of household and business to the extent of average consumption, as well as to support for central budgetary bodies, local authorities and ecclesiastical and civil institutions. Here, I would like to remind you that the reduction of the rent for all Hungarian families is a monthly state aid of HUF 181 thousand, which is unique in Europe. Support for families. We will not withdraw from the support of families. As the maintenance of the reduction of the rent indicates, support for families is one of the most important things for the government in 2023. What serves this purpose? The family tax system, based on an appreciation of work and child rearing, is one of Europe's lowest, 15 percent child-rearing rates and family tax and contribution reductions. In addition, in addition to young people under the age of 25, mothers with children up to the age of 30 are exempted from the payment of personal income tax up to the level of average wage. Finally, let me mention here that the government is in favour of the home creation programme. Most of the programmes and forms of support that expire in 2022 have been extended, so we will help families with children and children access their homes with additional substantial public support and interest rate subsidies. It can therefore be seen that the contrast is extremely sharp compared to the previous left-wing governments, which began to break down the family support system as a first step during the 2008-2009 crisis; the left also raised the tax burden on families when they should have been helped. About pensions. Speaking of sharp contrasts, there is also a strong difference in pensions between the current government's economic defence policy and the austerity policy of the government before 2010. Appreciation of pensioners is also an integral part of the work-based economy, as they have already worked for it. The government's goal is to maintain the value of pensions at all times, either during war or in a crisis of sanctions. With this, we will continue to maintain our commitment in 2010 that while Hungary has a civil government, the real value of pensions cannot be reduced. To this end, the government increased this year's appropriations for retirement expenses by more than HUF 650 billion compared to the original draft. From January 2023, the budget guarantees a 15% increase in pensions. This also applies to the 13th month pensions. And if annual expected inflation were to exceed 15 per cent, we would carry out an additional pension increase during the year similar to last year. Let me also remind you that last year we raised pensions three times: in January, July, and then in no-vember. This will therefore continue this year, if justified by a change in consumer prices. Finally, let me say a few words about career plans. We'll continue with the pay arrangements. One of the areas for this is health care. In addition to the comprehensive medical wage development programme launched from 2021 for several years, the government will carry out additional wage increases in two steps to recognise the work of health professionals from July this year and from 1 March 2024. As a result, by 1 March 2024 the average basic salary of health professionals should reach 37% of the average basic medical salary. This ratio is the same as for average medical and professional wages in Europe. Employees will also receive equal wage increases for healthcare workers. The government is also committed to raising wages for teachers. Accordingly, as the first step of the new increase, the salaries of teachers increased by 10 percent from 1 January 2023 and further increases can be made during the year following the arrival of EU funds. The budget will provide all the necessary resources for the actions I have just mentioned. Dear House, Finally, I would like to say a few words about the link between the domestic budget and external EU funds. First of all, I would like to remind you that in 2022 we achieved an outstanding, 4.6 percent economic growth by still not receiving the EU funds we owe. Consequently, the domestic budget prefinanced all EU programmes. The question rightly arises: will we receive these resources? Since Hungary has fulfilled all the conditions of the European Commission and has fulfilled the new ones, we can rightly trust that we will soon receive the funds that we are entitled to. Just as we expect the European Union to contribute to Hungary's border protection costs by hearing the Hungarian Government's request for several years. Since the beginning of the illegal migration crisis in 2015, Hungary has spent more than HUF 600 billion on border protection, protecting EU borders. The European Union financed less than two per cent of our expenditure, i.e. two per cent, 98 per cent of our expenditure from the national budget, from the payment of Hungarian taxpayers. It is a fair and legitimate request that Brussels contribute to these burdens. In 2023, the budgetary relations between Hungary and the European Union are essentially determined by the closure of the 2014-2020 programmes and the launch of the 2021-2027 programmes. The Cohesion Union funds available for the programming period 2021-27 amount to HUF 7900 billion in the order of magnitude. I should also mention that this year the implementation of the Common Agricultural Policy Strategy Plan, which includes direct area payments outside the budget, will begin. The amount of co-financing on the domestic side will be 80 per cent, which is unique in the European Union. [[9.30]] As a result, in the new programming period, nearly three times as much support will be allocated to agriculture as before. Dear House, In keeping with the legal guarantees, the Government sent the draft amending budget to the Budget Council for its opinion. The Council declared the bill credible and considered it enforceable and well-founded. He did not have any fundamental objections to object to the submission of the bill; he accepted it unanimously and fully. I would also like to thank the members of the Fiscal Council and their staff for their work in the opinion of the bill. Dear House, There is a prolonged war going on next door, to which Brussels is responding with a series of misguided sanctions, with the tenth one these days. However, the draft amending budget that has just been submitted can provide a basis for protecting our results in this difficult, dangerous time. It reflects the aim of protecting Hungarian families, businesses and jobs as well as improving balance indicators. On the basis of what has been said, I would like to ask you to discuss and accept the proposal to amend the budget law submitted in 2023. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-03-01-2	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The Fidesz Group has indicated that the Group's position is presented by two of its Members. First, I will give the floor to Congressman Erik Bánki, who will also address his speech here on the platform, the pulpit. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-03-01-3	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Minister, Mr. Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen, If we believe in God and our abilities, it is up to us to overcome the difficulties that lie ahead. I'm guessing several people in the room may know this saying, it was one of the most famous and famous Hungarians in the world, Ferenc Puskás. Knowing Uncle Bubby's career, we can see who believed in God and did not believe in the invincible difficulties that he was able to achieve a career that no one has ever been able to do since. Ladies and Gentlemen, We have entered a time of danger, after the epidemic, we now have a war, an economic and energy crisis on our hands. The prolonged war, the failed sanctions policy, has brought the entire economy of Europe into crisis. Under radically changed circumstances, it is necessary to amend the budget originally planned for this year, and the government has made its proposal accordingly. Thank you, Minister, for putting a proposal on the table of Parliament that can face all the challenges and which will ensure that Hungary is not only able to avoid the recession affecting the majority of European countries, but that we can keep the welfare measures that we have introduced in the previous years and that we can all be proud of here, in Hungarian legislation. 2023 will be the most dangerous year in Hungary since the change of regime. Risks should therefore be reduced and reserves increased. The government's aim is to create a functioning, financially safe environment in order to protect the workplace, preserve the real value of pensions, and maintain the security of pensions, for which the Fidesz fraction will give the government all the support it needs. The prolonged war and the failed sanctions policies have put the Hungarian economy and Hungarian society at a very harsh challenge. It is important to mention that Hungary and the Hungarian economy are in much better shape thanks to the government's operation and economic policy than they were in 2010 at the time of the economic and financial crisis. In 2010, we took over a bankrupt country, but in 2019 the Hungarian economy was the best in the whole European Union. In the last year, the rate of foreign capital entering the Hungarian economy has also set records, and we have also managed to set a record for reducing taxation in proportion to GDP. We can all be proud of that, too. Dear House, The budget for 2023 is, quite rightly, the budget for electricity protection. Despite the change in external circumstances, the government does not give up on this, which we consider to be very right. The amazing energy prices caused by the failed sanctions policy and the war have faced serious challenges, as last year's energy bill has increased from EUR 7 billion to EUR 17 billion. This difference of EUR 10 billion, equivalent to approximately HUF 4,000 billion, was a burden that no one expected. Hungarian companies, the state and families spent so much more. This amount could have been spent by companies on wage increases, on further tax reductions by the State or on raising family support, and on the purchase of homes by families or on raising their child-rearing costs. However, the Rezségvédelmi Fund provides a significant source of more than HUF 2600 billion to help families, state institutions and municipalities to support their increased spending. We continue to keep the premium for all families to the level of average consumption, which means that the average Hungarian family can save HUF 181 thousand per month through the reduction of the rent. There is no such support for families in any European country. It is important to note that Hungary's support for families throughout the European Union is the biggest result of this reduction. Despite the challenges of the international economic and political situation, Hungary can take further important steps in 2023. We are extending the scope of family support, as Minister said, now mothers who have children before the age of 30 are exempt from the payment of personal income tax to the level of average wage. The budget provides cover for the 15 per cent pension increase, which was also received by pensioners in Hungary for the 13th month pension, which we thank specifically for the government's measures. In 2023, the budget will spend HUF 6150 billion on pensions and pension-like benefits, the largest item of the budget. So we continue to undertake what we promised that pensioners should have any external circumstances, whatever difficulties the Hungarian economy and the Hungarian budget face, the real value of pensions will be preserved in all circumstances. Dear Parliament, In 2021, Hungary's GDP, investment and employment reached an unprecedented level at a record rate of 7.1 percent. The dynamic growth continued in 2022, despite the war and the failed sanctions policy in response. In recent years, growth has been driven by increased consumption and investment, while exports have also been a key driver of GDP growth. In response to economic challenges, the government responded with measures to protect families and businesses, including the introduction of price stops, the provision of the lowest prices in Europe, the protection of the real value of pensions, the promotion of energy intensive businesses, the launch of a factory rescue programme, the adaptation of the Széchenyi Card programme to new needs and the increase in subsidies. Between 2010 and 2023, the minimum wage, together with the current increases, has already been tripled by the government, the fourth largest increase in the whole European Union over this period. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In conclusion, it is important to mention that we have faced unprecedented challenges due to the prolonged war. The living conditions of Hungarian families, the protection of the economy and the saving of jobs have been our priority, and I think that so far, with the steps taken by the government, we have managed to keep this. As I said, we will manage to avoid the Hungarian economy slipping into recession; we expect to expand by 1.5 percent this year by further reducing public debt, budget deficits and reducing inflation to one-digit levels by the end of the year. Overall, the bill amending the budget for 2023 before us responds well to the changes caused by the war environment, thus the Hungarian economy avoids recession, the bill protects Hungarian families, guarantees the preservation of pensions for real reasons and guarantees the security of Hungary. I would ask my fellow Members to support the proposal before us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[9.40]]
u2023-03-01-4	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, The position of the Fidesz faction is presented by Mr Lajos Szűcs, also from here on the platform. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-03-01-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, Mr. Secretary of State, Lords of State. What does a parliament, a country from its government, expect in such a situation? I want you to be active, active and consistent. We all remember that we decided on the budget for 2023 last spring. At the time, neither the government nor the experts, but I don't think anyone in the world thought that such a prolonged crisis, a war crisis, would come upon us. At the time, we thought that the economy of the EU as a whole would grow by 2.3 percent in 2023. Unfortunately, we now know that because of the energy crisis and the sanctions that have failed, Europe should be pleased at all if it does not go into recession. Today, expert estimates are forecasting a total increase of 0.3 percent for the European Union as a whole. The Hungarian plan continues to be more ambitious as it plans to increase by 1.5 percent with the current amendment. I think that, compared to the situation 7-8 months ago, the economic environment has changed completely, and that all sound economic policy actors will do well if they respond to these changed circumstances. So did the Hungarian government, and the budget had to be adapted to the new circumstances, meaning that the priorities that we consider important had to be set. We must not allow our achievements to be put at risk by a war that Hungary has nothing to do with. What are these results again? Without repeating the words of those who spoke before me, I would like to say this in any case: the protection of electricity, the preservation of one million new jobs previously created, the preservation and expansion of pensions and the family support system. I would also like to highlight Hungary's safety. Keeping our sovereignty is a priority for our country to remain a strong and safe country in all respects, so that, in addition to the key role of defence, areas of public security will continue to be given a high priority in the budget. This year, more than 50 percent and nearly 482 billion HUF more resources are available for defence. Overall, this means that defence spending increased more than six times compared to 2010 to some HUF 1395 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, As a result of the legislative amendment submitted, the deficit in the government sector is changed to 3.9 percent in 2023 in proportion to the total national product. The deficit target is slightly higher than previously set, but results in a substantial improvement compared to the expected deficit in 2022. Due to the adverse global economy environment, the government has also increased the central reserve. In addition, pension expenditure and interest expenditure will be significantly higher than in the original budget. Taking all these factors into account, the deficit target was set, together with spending reduction measures and tax measures being taken at the end of 2022 in order to keep the deficit low, for example by introducing taxes on pharmaceutical manufacturers, by increasing insurance taxes and taxes on energy suppliers. As regards the functioning of the State, it remains null and void, since the budget only includes expenditure in which public services can be financed by the State from its own operating income. In order to promote economic growth, deficits arise only in the case of domestic stockpiling and EU development budgets. The government continues to consider it as a priority that, if the total national product in 2023 increases by 1.5 percent, the additional revenue should be used to reduce the deficit, encouraging a deficit of 3 per cent or less. The debt-to-GDP ratio will also decrease in 2023, from close to 73 per cent in 2022 to below 69 per cent by the end of 2023. Overall, I would like to say to you that, in the heightened situation at the end of last year, when all you could hear was the government's intention to amend the budget by means of a regulation, the government has made a wise decision and has brought this bill to Parliament. I am pleased that the Fiscal Council has also given the proposal an opinion in which it has not, in substance, prevented this amendment from being presented to this House or has given it an opinion which would have shown that, in their view, this budget is neither justified nor enforceable. In view of all of this, I think that this House has the opportunity to discuss this legislative amendment proposal, and if the wisdom of this House meets with the thoughts of the government, then the Hungarian Parliament will also vote in favour of adopting the amending budget. I encourage my fellow Members in opposition to this, and Fidesz-KDNP supports the budget amendment proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-03-01-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the DK Group will be Mr László Varju, who will also speak from this platform, the pulpit. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-03-01-7	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, If we have already been called upon by my fellow Member to consider and support this amending budget proposal, I would like to predict, Minister, that there is no reason for the opposition to support this. I could also say that I wish everyone a good morning, that I should wake up, because there is a reason to wake up, there is work to be done by the Parliament, even if the government, and the party state itself, are trying to make sure that Parliament's controlling role is kept down and that it is impossible to do what Parliament should otherwise do in democracy. I would also like to respond in advance to what my fellow Member has said about the HUF 4000 billion extra payment. You would have liked to have concluded a normal contract, or the content of it would be something that you would not have to pay any extra for; Minister Péter Szijjártó expressly stated that Hungary would have had cheaper gas than before. So if you guys had signed a contract like this, you could have used all that money for something else. As far as EU funds are concerned, I would just like to say that at least 17 months ago, you have at your disposal, simply because of the government's stupidity and lameness, you are unable to find solutions in substance. To this day, we do not see the proposals or draft laws that could otherwise correct the situation which you have already undertaken, and the deadline for that is coming to an end. So, to sum up, on this chapter, I respectfully propose to the Minister that this regulation be withdrawn and that the new budget law for 2023 be submitted in a normal budgetary procedure. I can also indicate the reason for this, which, of course, is less said here, that it is not only because of the criticism of the opposition that you consider political, but also because of what György Matolcsy, President of the Hungarian National Bank, said at the meeting of the Economic Committee. [[9.50]] If for a moment we take seriously what he said there, then we should do what I just said, i.e. withdraw the decree and submit a bill. Of course, the draft law does not only have economic and political problems, and this regulation, which you have brought here, but also has significant legal problems, in my opinion they are actually trying to cosmeticize the situation because of domestic and international indignation and its manifestly unlawful nature. But to return to Mr.György Matolcsy, who said that Hungary is among the most prominent countries in the financial situation between four and five: Hungary is in the most difficult financial situation in Europe as the poorest country. He spoke of a bankrupt country, Minister and my fellow Member. You are placing the safest point of reference about 15 years ago, and you are trying to define yourself compared to what you have said here, while the words you have said are obviously a description of a bankrupt country, and from this point of view, György Matolcsy's exterminating criticism and description should really be considered by you, how you got into this situation and what you should do. Well, in any case, or should I say, it's definitely not that they're trying to change the budget by regulation. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: We're negotiating now!]] Instead, it is an opportunity to debate a draft law in this respect. In the general circumstances of this criticism, it was also stated that the investment that you have been pursuing over the past period is the ruined economic policy, and I would say, as Minister repeated, that the Hungarian solution to overcoming the curve, which clearly leads the country towards drifting out, going into the ditch, disaster, taking the country, and it has happened, which resulted in fasting inflation, record-breaking forints, food price increases almost reaching hyperinflationary. This is all the result. You cannot amend this by submitting a Financial Regulation.
u2023-03-01-8	Mr. Congressman, I'm sorry, we're in the debate on a proposal for a budget law, and you should know this is not a regulation. [[A voice from the ranks of Fidesz: That's right! Robert Szigó: He didn't notice.]] As former Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, I would like to point this out to you, and you should be aware of that.
u2023-03-01-9	Mr President, thank you very much for your help, and I will pay attention to everything that will lead the government to understand what it really should do instead of what it does. Just because it is the result of your work and this amending budget that we are talking about here, this is what we are looking for instead of stagnation and even the recession that has become apparent in recent months. [[Sic!]] In the meantime, it is very high inflation that plagues people, but you are ignoring it in substance. The revision of the 2023 budget by means of a regulation has, therefore, caused a legitimate outrage in both political and professional circles. This, and the European Commission's much more radical action on the rule of law, could have resulted in us being here now and talking about it at all. Experts continue to say and say that politicians are not the only ones who say that we need to talk about a stolen budget here. The point is that the only way they can remedy their constitutional failure is if the government repeals the Financial Regulation and is late but presents a draft budget. It is necessary to see that the adoption of this bill does not bring about the constitutional violation in December; it is now another amendment after the unconstitutionally altered amendment of the bill, which had been put together almost immediately last summer. Let us look at something from its content, however, despite the fact that you should withdraw it for the reasons just explained. The planned GDP growth has previously fallen from 4.1 per cent to 1.5 per cent. Mr. Minister, in his expo here, he has already spoken about 1-1.5 percent, which indicates the legitimacy of the risks that make the potential for growth even lower and, in my opinion, we are moving towards recession. It should be noted that this also seems excessive, so the majority of experts speak of less. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: What experts?]] The budget deficit is also significantly above 3 per cent, so the sentences mentioned by the President of the National Bank of Hungary are ignored by you and are still in a state above 3 per cent expected in this respect. A further increase in foreign exchange debt was planned within the public debt by 2023, but this was significantly increased. State Debt Management Center: previously a foreign exchange ratio of less than 25 per cent, and this has been changed. October 2022 was still 24 percent, but now I can say they want to reach 30 percent. The amendment continued to maintain the system of overhead increases and could have signalled additional packages of overhead subsidies, but it did not, and it did so, that, by the way, for this year, it promised families and businesses that there would be no more expensive gas, no more expensive energy, while they could have done so because of a significant international fall in the price of gas, and in this way I could help families. Macroeconomic indicators, which can be found here separately, are forecasted until 2026, which can be considered rather uncertain in the present context. The rate of foreign exchange debt will continue to increase within the public debt next year, as I mentioned. At the beginning of January this year, Hungary will finance everything that is mentioned by the Minister from foreign exchange bonds issued. In this way, the interest that we pay will be a significant burden on the budget for the next period and will be a very heavy burden in this respect. The amount envisaged to maintain preferential retail energy tariffs up to the average consumption level has increased significantly from HUF 600 billion. And then again, the long-term gas contract concluded does not provide the cheap energy you promised, instead you tax the Hungarian people, Hungarian companies and then provide them with support from it. That's not a very logical solution. It is also worth mentioning the compensation for the energy bill of public institutions, public companies and local governments, which they are dealing with in hindsight, after acting in a discriminatory manner and helping those selected for you. The State is paying the costs of energy crisis rescue programmes for the competitive sector from the Rezhi Fund. But here I have to mention that small and medium-sized enterprises have been abandoned and, in this sense, only large companies with essentially loyal ownership are significantly assisted. [[10.00]] Unfortunately, for the increase in expenditure on health, I have to say that it is falling by 6 percent in real terms, and if I add the transformation of the healthcare system to which it was intended, unfortunately, it poses very serious risks for people in Hungary. The current bill is the third version of the 2023 budget, and it is quite unprecedented in the Hungarian history after the regime change that the budget was not only clearly adopted unconstitutionally, by means of a regulation, cutting the constitutional rights of the Fiscal Council, but also by discussing and voting on the draft that is now submitted to Parliament in the same year that it is already in place. Even at the time of its creation, the budget was bleeding from a thousand wounds, and in this way there are a lot of problems. In addition to previously unrealistic inflation and exchange rate appropriations, the main budget figures could be considered frivolous when this was previously planned. In addition, the government has, like previous years, modified a lot of things by government decrees. I would just like to remind you that the budget was amended 85 times in 2021 and 60 times in 2022. At this point, however, I must also say that the lack of transparency of the data is not only in my view, but also on the basis of an assessment by an international organisation that the Hungarian budget in the European Union is the least transparent and that a total of 44 points out of the 100 possible points have been achieved. Behind us is northern Macedonia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. On this basis, I must say that the draft law that has been tabled to us is unacceptable, and in this sense it cannot be supported by the Democratic Coalition faction. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2023-03-01-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to say to Mr President that you do not doubt that the central budget for 2023 is open until 31 December 2023 so that it can be amended at any time if there is a change in the state of the country which makes it necessary to change it. Thank you very much. I now address Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of KDNP. Here you go.
u2023-03-01-11	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Minister, Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! I always like it when there are memorable moments in the Parliament, and it is a memorable moment when László Varju demands in the debate on amending the budget of 2023 when he can speak in the debate on amending the budget of 2023. The congressman is demanding that you talk about amending the law you were talking about for 15 minutes here. The fact is that his speech had little to do with the budget. Congressman, because you say that experts are saying something, you should not be watching DK TV, and you should not be treating Zsolt Gréczy as an expert, and then it might also be easier to guide the budget figures. I would like to draw your attention, my fellow Members, the Momentum and the Dialogue felt that they did not have anything to say in amending the 2023 budget, nor did they set up a keynote speaker, nor did they come into the Chamber. If it were up to them, the country's budget, public health protection, pension protection, education and health should not be accepted, because they do not think it is an important issue. They're not here, they don't consider the country's affairs important. We see that the Member, who is the energy minister of the shadow government, the energy-shadow minister of the god: shadow minister of the shadow government, said why the government did not solve it so that energy prices would not rise. Congressman Varju said why the government didn't fix it so that energy prices wouldn't rise. [[László Varju is leaving the meeting room.]] Now he's running away fast when it's confrontation. Retail electricity and gas prices remain the cheapest in Hungary throughout the European Union. There are countries where household bills have increased eight times more than ten times, while Hungarian consumers in the whole European Union continue to pay the least up to the average level of consumption due to the protection of public utility, the reduction of the rent. I think it's a result worth fighting for, something worth protecting. This is also partly the subject of an amendment to the budget before us. You know that it is common practice during the Fidesz-KDNP governments that the next year's budget will always be adopted by the Parliament at the end of the spring session in the summer. This also means predictability, planning, stability and sufficient preparation time for businesses, economic operators and, of course, citizens. However, the war that broke out on 24 February 2022 brought new challenges, and we entered the age of danger. Brussels has used sanctions against Russia for the war, which it has promised will bring the end of the war, and even if it is clenched with teeth, but all Europeans must take part in the suffering. War and sanctions imposed by Brussels have generated war sanctions in inflation and have caused an energy crisis in Europe. The sanctions took HUF 4000 billion out of the Hungarians' pocket in 2022. Hungarian companies, the state and families spent so much more on energy prices due to sanctions in Hungary. The sanctions against the war propaganda in Brussels were less painful for the Russian economy than for the people of Europe. Let's see, the Russian economy shrunk by only 2.2 percent last year. The International Monetary Fund predicts that Russia's GDP will grow by 0.3 percent this year and 2.2 percent by 2024. A year passed, and the end of the war didn't come any closer, but the end of it disappeared at the horizon. It is clear, therefore, that sanctions have failed to achieve their objectives, have failed, and the European economy, the people of Europe, are hurt more than Russia. In this wartime, with sanctions, the Hungarian budget for this year also needs to be amended. The most important task now is to preserve Hungary's peace and security, and to ensure the country's energy supply and to protect the cost reduction. The government will also protect the country's security, the reduction of the costs, jobs, pensions, families and ensure the security of our country, the development of forces. Despite war, inflation and sanctions, economic growth in Hungary was higher than the EU average in 2022, 4.6 percent, and a 1.5 percent increase in GDP is expected this year as well. Thus, in this extremely difficult and dangerous situation, the Hungarian economy will not be expected to decline, but the Hungarian economy will continue to expand despite war and penalty inflation. In 2022, the government deficit and government debt were also reduced, from 7.1 percent to 4.9 percent, from 77 percent to 73.5 percent. The left cannot imagine that in an election year affected by war, energy crisis and sanctioned inflation, a government can reduce both budget deficits and public debt. Even in times of peace, the left did not succeed in the global economy, in times of energy abundance. In 2006, Hungary had the second worst data in the world, with a budget deficit higher than the 9.2 percent budget deficit in the war-torn Lebanon; under the Gyurcsány government, under the MSZP administration, my fellow Members. The left has not even used a record budget deficit for tax reductions or welfare measures, which is high worldwide. And here we can understand the sentence of Congressman László Varju, who asked us why we are amending the budget during the budget year; they, in retrospect, are changing the numbers backwards, this left-wing pattern, that they will subsequently falsify the numbers a little bit and send other numbers to Brussels. We believe that in front of Parliament this year, if such a thing is needed, we will modify it, and not afterwards, as you do cosmeticism. In the 2008 Gyurcsány tax system, the employer's tax burden on wages was affected by five types of taxes, representing a total tax burden of at least 33.5 per cent on wages for employers. The employer's tax burden on wages is now only 13 percent. In the fair tax system of Gyurcsány, according to the left, the lowest rate of personal income tax was 18%, and with other contributions and tax charges, one employee received only about 50% of his gross salary. Today, it is a uniform 15 percent, one of the lowest tax rates in Europe. It's not a coincidence. While the left can rightly be called the government of tax increases, the Fidesz-KDNP government is the government of tax reductions. Since 2010, we have reduced taxes eighty times. [[10.10]] As long as the Left sees the solution only in tax increases, regardless of whether it is a period of economic activity or crisis, the national Christian Democratic Government has maintained its commitments and maintained its tax reduction policy during the economic crisis caused by Covid, the war, the energy crisis and the EU sanctions policy. In 2022, the economy grew, the government deficit and government debt decreased, and we managed to maintain the reduced retail prices in the severe energy crisis without having to increase taxes. The tax measures taken since 2010 have reduced the tax burden by 4-5 percent of GDP. The minimum wage grew from HUF 200,000 to HUF 232 thousand on 1 January this year, while the guaranteed minimum wage was HUF 260 thousand to HUF 296 400. This means that today the minimum wage is 182 thousand forints higher than in 2010, and the guaranteed minimum wage is 207,000 forints higher. During the eight-year governance of the left, between 2002 and 2010, László Varju was State Secretary, the minimum wage increased by HUF 23,500, i.e. by an annual average of HUF 2937, my fellow Members. An annual minimum wage increase of 2937 HUF has been made! This not-all gross surplus of HUF 3 000 per year in the 2000s was not a large sum that could even stagnate the real value of the minimum wage. Fidesz-KDNP has tripled the minimum wage since 2010. Although 2022 was the hardest year of Hungary after the change of regime, this year's most dangerous year, it is clear that the Hungarian economy is on the line, and despite all the difficulties, it has achieved good results. High inflation is the most serious challenge facing the Hungarian and the European economy as a whole. We cannot completely eliminate inflation this year, because its causes are not in Hungary, the problem was unleashed by war and Brussels with the sanctions imposed on energy sources. The name of the disease is therefore sanctioned inflation and the virus itself is a sanction in Brussels. In the first months of 2023, inflation may peak recently, and after a slow decline, it may start to decline faster from the second half of the year, and by the end of this year we will break it down and reduce inflation to one digit. Until inflation is contained, the population will be protected by food stops, these are the food stops that Jobbik has been demanding in the last two days, and I would not like to help people in this way. In addition to the food price stops, the Hungarian government extended and extended the residential interest stop protecting 350,000 families. We also extended the interest rate stop to student loans and also reduced the cost of the bank's basic account fees to a third. One of the main causes of the current fiscal change is energy prices lost as a result of sanctions. The Fidesz-KDNP government will continue to do its best in 2023 to maintain its ten-year-old premium. The international prices of energy sources have also increased to historical heights due to war and sanctioning measures. A specific element of the budget is the extended Rezsivédvédelmi Fund, in which the government allocated HUF 2610 billion instead of the originally planned HUF 670 billion to protect Hungarian families and businesses from rising energy prices. The national government guarantees that the retail reduction in its current form will be maintained in 2023. An average Hungarian family saves 181,000 forints per month through the booked prices. In the age of dangers, in 2023, defence is also a very important area. In 2023 we spend more money than ever before on the security of the country, the Hungarian people and their assets, thus also our NATO commitments, it seems that we can deliver and achieve the 2% GDP contribution, a significant part of which is being developed, and thus technological development in the Hungarian Defence Office is also constantly increasing. I think we can all agree on this goal. We also pay special attention to our elderly countrymen. The Fidesz-KDNP aims to preserve the value of pensions in the sanctions crisis. This serves the 15 percent increase in pensions in January 2023, and in 2022 we rebuilt the full 13th month pension, which was abolished and taken by the left, two years earlier than planned, and this year pensioners received the 13th month pension, which was also increased by 15 percent. The amount of budgetary resources that can be used for retirement benefits is close to HUF 5550 billion, while the pension-like benefits receive an additional HUF 600 billion. We are committed to what we promised pensioners back in 2010 to protect the real value of pensions. This commitment was achieved, and even the purchasing value of pensions increased by 20 percent between 2011 and 2023. The budget for 2023 will spend a total of HUF 3357 billion on supporting families with children. This has been higher every year in recent years, my fellow Members, and we spend nearly three and a half times as much on supporting families compared to 2010. You have just taken me away from families, and we support childbearing, we support families, we support the financial burden of raising children as little as possible for families. Remember that the left-wing governments in times beyond the age of the present difficult dangers have abolished the incentives for home creation, eliminated the favourable housing loans, and drove the Hungarian families into debt-slaving foreign currency loans. In 2009, the share of foreign exchange loans in the total population was over 70 percent and 1.5 million people were at risk of direct eviction. I consider it an extremely important result that from 1 January 2022, young people under the age of 25 are exempt from personal income tax up to the average wage level, and we will maintain and continue this year. At the time of the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments, a young worker received about 50% of his gross salary. By contrast, as of 2022, a young person will receive 81.5 percent of his gross salary. This is a huge difference and real support for young people who are about to start a life and start a family. From this year on, mothers who have had children before the age of 30 are also exempt from paying personal income tax up to the average wage level. We are expanding the system of family support in the most difficult years. We have increased the level of support for work, the tax exemption has been doubled, 100,000 workers can receive double the tax-free amount of aid. All in all, ladies and gentlemen, I think that there is no basis for left-wing alarms. I think that in the difficult year we also see that we can achieve results, that we can spend more money on our strategic and important goals, and that we must continue to fight for peace as soon as possible. If there was peace tomorrow, inflation would be halved. We need to fight for sanctions to be reviewed and reconsidered as soon as possible, especially on energy, energy, and thus the budget is stable in 2023, helping Hungarian people, despite all the difficulties, and we will continue to support people, young people, pensioners, families and workers in this way. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-01-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Zoltán Vajda, President of the Committee on Budgets, who will also present his speech here on the platform. Here you go, Mr. President. You have the floor.
u2023-03-01-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Colleagues, We are experiencing historical moments when the proposal to amend the budget for 2023 is being discussed by this House. Why is this moment historic? Because there's been an emergency that the government has introduced a rule of law. As you say, the Ukrainian-Russian conflict, as the Hungarian people say: however, during the extended legal order due to the aggression in Putin, decisions have somehow been taken that do not have a lot to do with the fights in the neighbouring country, at least it would be very difficult to justify how the removal of the rights of the teachers to strike or, say, how the regulation of the capital taxi fees can be linked to the fights. However, this does not interfere with Fidesz, hundreds of regulations are issued every week, which means that Parliament's powers will be evacuated, and in particular the most important, the withdrawal of the right to decide on the budget. Dear colleagues, Dear fellow Members, Let's not be naive, we know very well that in recent years, the Cabinet has changed the current smells by hundreds of government resolutions, but by being a Ministry of Finance official, who at the end of the year finds traces of similarities with the version adopted by Parliament. However, it is not just that. This is about the government adopting a de facto new budget by going around the National Assembly. [[10.20]] The bill is implementing comprehensive amendments that allow us to call this a whole new budget. I started with history. Why are these moments historic? It is because, not only since the change of regime, but even before the change of regime, Parliament has not been denied the right to make a decision on the government's budget proposal. At the end of 2022, we got to the point where the government wasn't showing up. Parliament's last... [[To Mihály Varga leaving the room.]] With all due respect, Minister, thank you for listening to me so far, bye-bye. The government doesn't even look like it anymore. Parliament has also been deprived of its last, more or less respected right. They did this the same year the Golden Bull, for example, was celebrated. It was 800 years ago that the power was limited by the fact that we didn't levy taxes without asking! Compared to this, the government will, without asking anyone, issue new special taxes by night decrees. That's what they did tonight, changing special tax rules at night. Or draw funds as they please. All in all, over 800 years, this historic moment is quite sad. Dear Parliament, Dear Colleagues, The opposition now warns the government, year after year, that it is completely pointless to submit the next year's budget in the spring and then vote on it in the summer; because in six to seven months the budget will simply be inflated, by the time it enters into force, it has little to do with reality. Last summer, as a fresh Member of Parliament and as a recent Chairman of the Budget Committee, I myself said that they were committing an incredibly foolish act by the fact that the budget had already been raped in the summer. Now I'm supposed to say I was right? [[Intercom from the benches of the governing parties: No!]] But you insist; you insisted on it last summer, and I remind you that last summer's budget was marked by signs that I am quoting from you. Their first sign:....is the key to competitiveness. Their second adjective was that it was "transparency." Their third adjective was that it's a,, prostheticity. For example, I remember these three signs that were used last summer for their budgets. In order to achieve these goals, I think that much more should be done, because, let's say, their first indicator is competitiveness; our competitiveness would be increased if education were finally given the resources needed, teachers' wages were finally settled, and teachers' very legitimate professional demands were met. Their second term is transparency. They talk about it when the EU's least transparent budget is Hungarian. And their third term is predictability. You expect predictability, while, again, you're charging new taxes in hours, rearranging the budget. Special tax rules have been amended for tonight as well. So that's how much the early budget makes sense. But let us ask the question: does this late budget that we are seeing make more sense? Does this late budget make any more sense? Because it is out of the question, I think we can agree that this is a late budget and not just because of the obvious situation, because there is no point in discussing a budget that has been in force for two months in substance. On this basis, first payments have been made; tax collection has started; municipalities have adopted their own budgets. Still, does it make sense to argue about this? The Ministry of Finance, you claim that it is, because, as you have said, it will be possible to submit amendments. I read that in the press release. Well, I don't think it's gonna make any sense to propose amendments unless you accept them. Because believe me, we need to change the budget. Why? I'll explain it to you. For example, while inflation started to decline in most countries of the European Union, Hungary continues to break records, it is now at a height of around 25 per cent. In our wider environment, inflation is higher only in Turkey than in us, so it is interesting. As you say, as they say, Western countries that shoot themselves in the leg with sanctions. That's what they say, isn't it? So, if these western countries that shoot themselves in the leg once again with these sanctions, you say that they are half as high as inflation, where they are close to a one-digit deterioration rate, on the other hand, what is expected in Hungary this year? Well, the National Bank considered 16-18 percent inflation realistic, according to their projections last December, if the war does not end and the European Union does not refer resources to our country. Today, on 1 March, it is due to the fact that unfortunately neither the Russian-Ukrainian conflict offers a swift closure, and the Hungarian government has not received the former EU funds, but it has become even worse, since our country is also excluded from the Erasmus+ and Horizon programmes. Why? 'Cause the state college assets were privateized, and the politicians in the private foundations, they planted themselves. This is where Hungary is at on March 1, 2023: record inflation, recession economy, technically speaking, we can say that there is a technical recession and declining real wages in Hungary. The latter, the falling real wages, are the most serious problem for Hungarian families. Hungarian real earnings have been declining for almost six months, as inflation is massively higher than the average wage increase. The decline in average wages creates an increasing tension in almost all spheres, but especially in the public sector, which is the responsibility of the government. It is the government's responsibility that teachers' salaries no longer cover their livelihoods, and that is why a highly respected teacher, beloved by children, is forced to work in a store instead of teaching. What's Fidesz's answer to that? There's no money for that. Tell me, was it for Vodafone shopping? ! It is also the responsibility of the government to pay a fast-food employee to an assistant with a PhD degree at the universities remaining in the state reserve. Or that we are trying to break out of the middle-developed countries by trying to get the fresh graduates to join the research team with a grant of just 140 thousand forints to get a doctorate. What's Fidesz's answer to that? There's no money for that either. It's government propaganda. But it is also the government's responsibility that health care is heavily underfunded. The end-of-year ratio of hospital debts was never as high as at the end of 2022. Doctors' wages have been settled, but the rest of the staff remain extremely low. The shortage of professionals is getting more and more acute. It is enough to think that in Hungary there are a total of 6 doctors, i.e. six under the age of 30. In my wider constituencies, Zuglo, a general doctor recently resigned and indicated that he was now going to study German. I assume your answer to this is that there is no money for this either. And unfortunately, there is something that has not changed since last summer's adoption of the budget: the government continues to use less in terms of welfare expenditure than in 2010 the socialist government; the financing of education and health in terms of GDP is also on a declining path. Inflation here, too, has eaten the short increase caused by the increase in medical salaries. The social network continues to break even during the period of real wage increases. Not a single forint has raised the amount of family allowance, child and child since they came to the government, as the minimum pension remained humiliatingly low. The amount of family support programmes has also been absorbed. According to experts, the real value of family tax relief has decreased to about a third in ten years, and only half as much of the baby shower credit can be purchased as when it was introduced. This is the case on 1 March 2023, after 13 years of Fidesz governance in Hungary. You can see that you either can't or don't want to solve these problems. Therefore, as chairman of the Committee on Budgets, believe me when I say that amendments are needed. [[10.30]] This is why the MSZP has developed a Life Safety Package in the form of a proposal amending the budget so that we can really protect Hungarian families from slippage. Please don't tell me you can't afford this. We're experiencing an unprecedented luxury in every government tightrope friend in this country that's never been seen before. The financial resources of this package could therefore be easily solved, among other things, from billions collected from fidesz oligarchs. The second thing I'm sure you need is for teachers not to be chased off the field, fired or threatened. What is needed is to arrange a career as a teacher so that a truly predictable future can be planned by those who choose to educate our children. Because, as Kuno Klebelsberg said, the countries that spent too much on education have never gone bankrupt. There is also a need for a financially sound basis for health care. It is not normal for hospitals to sit on a mountain of debt, and neither is it normal to have no general practitioner, no care. To solve these problems, we do need money, which the Parliament needs to provide. Finally, let me also speak as an individual representative. I think it is extremely wrong for you to decide, as your media say, that you have released Budapest. They don't want to deal with the capital or the districts. Just enough examples are that Minister Lazarus personally pulled down almost all of the developments in the capital, including those that are important to the 14th century. 1 and 16 Circuits. I ask you that we do create the possibility of these improvements, because it is not normal to travel on 50-60-year-old HÉV trains from Zincota, Matthias Land, or that there is not enough P+R parking, or that because of lack of overpasses or underpasses, people spend unnecessary hours and even days waiting in traffic, either in a car or on a bus. I therefore ask you to support the safety of life, to support education, to support health care, to support municipal development, and to support our amendments that will enable all of this. Thank you so much for listening.
u2023-03-01-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, who will also speak from this platform. I'll wait for the congressman to wake up. [[It's happening.]] Thank you very much. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2023-03-01-15	Mr President, Dear House, In recent years, we have become accustomed to the fact that the debate on the budget or its amendment is taking place during a crisis period, and we are living in a time of crisis. I can see, of course, that when a technical recession can be said perhaps in terms of the national economy, then the pro-government representatives will try to unfold the perhaps more beautiful side of the system, and the opposition will try to highlight indescribably what they believe is unsustainable in Hungary. I would like to focus precisely on sustainability in the next few minutes, because in a crisis period it is worth considering what it is that can help us to recover, and what are the factors that make recovery impossible, for example, in this budget. I am very pleased that the family support system has actually been mentioned by all pro-government speakers, as one of our most important sustainability factors is the elimination of the Hungarian demographic crisis, the Hungarian citizens and the Hungarian labour force guaranteeing that they can manage in their homeland if they intend to do so. What I see is that this is the area where, in the area of family support, this government is undoubtedly spending a lot of money and doing a lot, even if some statistical magic can be done, because it is one of the family support, as I recall, of the hundreds of billion-dollar expenditures of the Women's 40, programme. However, even if these are deducted, it can be said that relatively much resources are allocated to this area at European level in proportion to GDP, which is why it is freezing and blood-freaking how little demographic statistics have been achieved, unfortunately. The reason I'm saying this is that, unfortunately, because being a counter-suspect is my opinion that it would be treason, that's what it's worth. So I'm rooting for the government to succeed in this area. The fact is that the decline in fertility rates from 1.59 to 1.52, the unbelievable and lower-than-expected number of live births, and the relatively high mortality, have led to a situation where the demographic trend shifts and peaks are simply no longer spoken of by a pro-government representative; you have also acknowledged that this experiment has unfortunately failed. I would have liked to have succeeded, but the thing is, with just money, the question that means security of life, a sense of everyday security, a sense of opportunity to thrive in the homeland, it cannot be solved, it cannot be solved merely with material things. Therefore, if it is a family support system, it would be worth talking about making it worthwhile to follow inflation. The amount of family tax relief has already been said today. Indeed, in the case of three children, this is only a fraction of what was achieved at the time of introduction, and from the baby shower, if we go through it, but even the state support for pension savings I do not say housing, because it has been eliminated, for all the others where it is, we can achieve a real decrease in value, so that the value of family support is unfortunately shrinking. This is what the housing crisis is about, which this government does not want to deal with spectacularly. I don't think he doesn't know. The housing market is also a market, and it is also a profession. We have the treatment tools that, let's say, could be used against the high rents. Here's a supply shortage, very few apartments to rent. What can be done in such a case? Resolving supply shortages, building a lot of rent apartments in a national housing program. This is exactly what one of our amendments will be about, in this quoted market, the market failure that this government has missed for over a decade now, to dissolve it and to help those who are unable to pay for their own condo. Hundreds of thousands, millions of people in Hungary are in this situation, and the dramatic, blood-freezing case of foreign exchange credentials is the best example of this. A lot of people went abroad under duress. Not because they wanted to, but because they were able to manage the repayment burden of their foreign exchange loans here, which had previously been converted, by paying off Western European salaries. These fates are still here, and they are here with us. So when one of my pro-government fellow Members tells me that they have saved the foreign exchange credo, I have to rebut him over and over again: no, they have saved the banks' financial interests, but with the market rate forints they pushed our fellow countrymen to the edge of the trench, which, by the way, is unsuitable to this day. We have talked about teachers, and we see that it is not really the image of a strong national government when they are waiting for external influences, external resources, for example, in terms of a wage increase. Ander Balázs, an excellent colleague of mine, pointed out that from 2022 to 2023, the personal benefits of the Klebelsberg Center grew from HUF 480 billion to HUF 540.5 billion, as I recall. If we add everything up, we can see that this can't compensate for the inflationary impact. So about 340 billion are missing from the whole system in order to achieve such a level or even a slow advance; the social system still has 120 billion. And here's the deception, because the government says a lot of times that it plans to spend 120 billion more on this area or that area, let's say, but the inflationary effect is very often left out. That is exactly our problem with the pension system, when they read to us that there is 5500 billion forints in pensions, it is such an impressive amount, doesn't it seem very large? In previous years there were only three thousand or several hundred billion, so it seems to be growing. However, if, in addition to the inflation impact, we look specifically at the pensioner consumer basket, i.e. the range of basic foods and consumer goods that are more dominant in our retired countrymen, then we see that there was a month in which there was a 25 percent increase in prices in the case of an average pensioner. Unfortunately, the pension increase here does not allow even the real value to be preserved. I, by the way, see the correctness of a pro-government representative in terms of the fact that some people have not promised a pension increase in years. Everyone is saying that preserving the purchasing power of pensions can only be a realistic goal, because they see that in the middle of a demographic disaster, a pension increase, say, one-and-a-half times, and a liar who promises such a thing. I myself am fighting against irresponsible pension and social raising promises in the world of Hungarian politics, because I see what can and cannot be produced from the system. [[10.40]] Well, there'd still be a lot of intervention. Well, how is it that a 3-4 percent pension increase for a small pensioner can amount to a few hundred forints, but who fortunately managed to obtain hundreds of thousands of forints' pensions, could be worth thousands of forints? Thus, the need for differentiated pension increases on our part, from our faction to this day, and within this very difficult, crunching, crunching system, could be very seriously alleviated in difficult situations in the event that a higher percentage increase is put in place every year for those receiving lower retirement benefits, and we would examine how further facilitations can be included, for example, in terms of the 40. There is an unspoken social contract that most of us will work or work our lives, and on the other hand there is the promise of some perhaps calmer years at the end of life when it is possible to deal with children and grandchildren. Many of our fellow men do not have this option at the end of the system, not only because of the lack of years in health, but simply because many people die sooner than they can enjoy these last life years, and the fact is that this is unfair. And when we look for the answer to say why demographic low-flying can occur, we also see that the promise of prosperity in the homeland, its potential is absent from many of our fellow countrymen, or because they see that they cannot get a home on their own, or because they see that raising three or four children on such a salary is a very, very serious challenge in Hungary in addition to inflating family support, or because they see that they have to work to the death, and their meaningful results are not always visible or planned. That is why we are saying that moving within the system with regard to the pension system could also help. And how could all of this or the housing programme I mentioned be financed? What we see is that, when I have had fair professional discussions with the Secretary of State in recent years, perhaps six years ago, we have discussed the VAT issue, this country has had some EUR 3000 billion in VAT revenue, a little more. Then this $3,000 billion went up to $5,000, which I recall was $5,200 billion in one budget year. We can now see that within two years, it has become a short-term revenue expectation of 7,000 billion, and then we are talking about HUF 7900, almost 8,000 billion, VAT expectations by amending the amendment. So the thing is that what is falling out on one side because of the crisis and your sometimes unnecessary battles, or at least a large part of it, seems to be being framed on the other side of the Hungarian population. Such an explosive rise in the expectations of VAT is making my life very, very easy in a keynote speaker's speech, but it only makes it harder for everyone else. My life will be easier because I can tell the government that all of its VAT surplus, so what he took in addition to waiting, he leaves it with the families, and I can tell you what titles and means to leave it with them. On the one hand, in the housing programme, which I mentioned, obviously by raising the education and social system, or rather by keeping it on a level, you would also lose some weight, but you cannot forget the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. The amazing situation is that when the debates are going on, say, in the case of battery companies or multi-company companies, we say that these companies will receive, say, HUF 300-400 billion from Hungarian taxpayers, typically in the form of non-refundable grants, but if we take into account individual government decisions, subsidies for infrastructure, tax incentives, so there are a lot of items for multi-company dots, we find that hundreds of billions of Hungarian taxpayers' money will certainly go away here, often after jobs filled by guest workers, for these subsidies. But what about the Hungarian small, medium-sized enterprise? The battery company can't deliver much, because this is a closed-chain technology, it was difficult for car manufacturers to deliver, while they carry the national economy on their backs, these small Hungarian companies provide two thirds of the jobs, they even miss out on wage statistics many times, because there are only employers above five people, and we see that they don't receive subsidies such as multis, either at system level or elsewhere. This 700 billionaire, the business development package, has been mentioned a lot lately. I was also a supporter of this, so this can be done well, and I will beg you to continue doing this even more effectively in the future, to extend the opportunity here for small and medium-sized Hungarian businesses to create and maintain jobs, so it would make full sense. But what I see is that this mass of non-refundable grants, given by individual government decisions and otherwise, has to be considered. This should be suspended and the whole system opened to Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. And what I see is that the multinationals often receive support without having to create a job for it, but I would reverse it, primarily by supporting the maintenance of the jobs held by Hungarians and provided by Hungarian companies, or even the creation of new ones, and I would not want to attract the multinational companies to keep them here with the money of Hungarian taxpayers. So if a package is drawn up for them, it is very right to bring as much working capital as possible dealing with meaningful investments, but then, I beg you, do it for profit, so don't have to finance it for the Hungarian taxpayers. I would therefore like to consider the whole system here, and yes, the fact is that we would like to see a great deal of Hungarian development in research and development, in the IT sector, in digitalisation, and these companies should be supported. Not so far away, the Estonian digitalization model paves the way. Obviously, we cannot and do not need to import foreign methods and methods in one piece, but we can see that if Hungarian small businesses are only given the chance to leave them alone, so there is no such thing as cataclysms during the year, we have already made a lot of progress. We have put this in one of our proposals so that we can reach into the tax system once a year at the most, only in justified cases, and that we have sat at the table with all those involved, and they have something to say about this. Obviously, reducing administrative and bureaucratic burdens is another very important demand. There have been a lot of promises here over the last twenty years, but the Hungarian business community is still under administrative burden, and we could also guarantee benefits, and I say to the Secretary of State that, for example, let us see how much taxes a Hungarian small or medium-sized enterprise has paid to Hungary in the last ten years, and this amount, if it gets into trouble, can be granted as a temporary, even zero-percent credit to pull itself out of trouble. We do so for companies that serve this national economy, they carry it on their backs, which, by the way, makes us sit here in Parliament, and if we do that, then these companies will feel that it matters, and I want them to feel it rather than the multi-company ones. Multi-companies come and go, fashionable industries come and go, but the Hungarian small entrepreneur has been carrying this country on his back for very long decades, and this will also be the case in the coming decades. In conclusion, the sustainability foot of this fiscal amendment lacks the right family support, so that the opportunity to thrive in the homeland is okay in a way that extends from housing to education, and it is also very lacking that the Hungarian entrepreneur, the engine of the Hungarian national economy, feels that he is needed here and that he can manage in his homeland. If we clean up all these areas, then perhaps forced emigration will cease or reverse, and then we can talk about what Hungary should look like, say, in 2050 or in 70. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] As long as these sustainability legs are missing, it is very difficult and it is only possible to talk about the coming years in a campaign-like way, and Hungary is much better! He deserves more than that. I want everyone in their homeland to get along. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik, DK and LMP.]]
u2023-03-01-16	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! Mr László Toroczkai is the lead speaker of the group of our countries. The leader of the faction will speak from here, from the platform. I'll wait for him to rise. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2023-03-01-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, A lot of communication tricks and obviously a crack in the head of this budget, which we were arguing about here last summer, was the name of this budget, wasn't it, was it, was it, was the budget of public security, was this budget of defence. If we look at the budget that has been submitted last year and, since then, we are now looking at it as an amended budget, then this is actually a budget for inflation. So if you want to find the right name, I would ask you to modify it, at least at the level of communication; this is not a public policy, it is not a defence, it is an inflation budget. Last summer, when we were talking about this pulpit here in the same summer, and I spoke about it myself, we had already predicted that it would not be possible to plan with those numbers, especially the inflation, 5.2 percent inflation, as you planned. I do not know why they did so at the time, because we were right after the elections, so I do not know what kind of campaigning was the reason for this, but we all knew and we said here that this would not be possible, not only will it not be possible to keep the 5.2 percent inflation, but therefore the budget will not be sustainable either. [[10.50]] But you can see that this has been modified, but they are now accounting for 15 percent inflation, but if you look at, say, the inflation rate in December at the end of 2022, it was almost 25 percent, then you can see that it is not worth to count by 15 percent, but rather by 19 percent in the lower voice. From here on out, we'd have a whole new set of data. I will also talk about the specific figures, but before that, overall, let's look at how the corner numbers of the new, we call the revised budget have changed compared to the old budget. We see that the total expenditure has increased, and the revenue has also increased. The problem is that the total expenditure has increased to a higher extent than the total revenue, so the deficit has also increased by more than a thousand billion, which is a lot. I would like to highlight this in particular because, unlike government communication, inflation is not exclusively single and does not have foreign policy or global economic reasons, but there are equally Hungarian and otherwise badly planned budget causes. We, on the part of the Hungarian Movement, recognize it, and not only recognize it, but from the first moment we say that the war that is going on in Ukraine, on the one hand, is not our war, and on the other hand, it should not cost the Hungarian state, nor the Hungarian taxpayers, nor any Hungarian person. Compared to this, the failed Brussels sanctions policy has cost Hungarians a great deal of money, and inflation, especially since 1996 for the first time, is largely due to global economic developments, but the government's failed economic policy, which now lasts 13 years, is in this inflation indicator. After all, we should not plan budgets where, on the one hand, there are tricks and they try to mislead a little either the factions present here or the Hungarian citizens who pay taxes, and on the other, we should not expect such a deficit target as there are several places here. So a much stricter budget would be needed at the moment if inflation did not go away. What is particularly sad for us, the people of Hungary, in this story: if we are talking about inflation, we are talking about inflation, then the share of food inflation in a country that has been an agricultural country for hundreds of years, in a country that was Europe's pantry, and could be Europe's pantry right now. Not only would György Matolcsy, but the programme of the Hungarian Movement, the Virradat programme, have been calling the government's attention for many years to the need to build on the food industry, to repair the enormous damage caused by the Balliberal governments in the 1990s, on the one hand, and the first government of Fidesz, on the other hand, the first government of Orbán in this country, when they allowed that kind of robbery, which ultimately put Hungary in a position that is currently linked to the European Union in a kind of respiratorial function. Speaking of which, given the situation of the Hungarian economy in general, I must highlight GDP data. When we are talking about GDP and we are looking at GDP figures, I think more and more Hungarians know that this is not really important to them, let us say, for their real wage value, but we are looking at how you account for GDP growth. GDP growth was 7.1 per cent in 2021, and in 2022 this fell to 4.6 per cent, and now in 2023 we see that instead of 4.1 per cent, only 1.5 per cent of GDP is expected; this in itself can be an alarming, alarming figure. What is more important, and they do not talk about it here, so I would like to say on behalf of the Group of the Hungarian Movement that GDP is, in fact, not only an invaluable and not accurate figure for the well-being of Hungarian people in Hungary, but also simply because when GDP growth is calculated, foreign migrant workers who are constantly growing are included in it, including the profits that the multinationals pumped out abroad. From this point on, although it is desperate that GDP is constantly declining and gradually converging with zero, it does not matter to us as long as the entire economic policy structure is not changed by the government, which, in cooperation with previous Balliberal governments, has been developed in agreement, the essence of which is that global capital always benefits from the disadvantage of the Hungarian SME sector, the Hungarian worker and even the Hungarian pensioner. We would therefore like to draw the rapporteur's attention to the fact that government communication does not emphasise GDP, but rather, instead, to measure the actual added-value that we actually have, it would be much better to calculate gross national income, which does not include the ownership income generated by foreign capital in Hungary and the incomes of foreign workers in Hungary. This is also a debt to the government, and for thirty years there has been a kind of misdirection. Let us talk about sovereign debt, which is also a very old and very important issue for us. If we look at sovereign debt, we can see from this, from the inflation budget, that the operation of the state will be much more expensive, that it will finance its operation, that is to say, it will be much higher and more public debt. I'll give you a specific number right here, right in front of me. The gross debt of the central budget was realised at nominal value in 2022 at more than HUF 45 000 billion. According to the old budget, the government debt ratio planned for 2023 was approximately HUF 48 000 billion. This is now close to HUF 49 000 billion, so growth is continuing and we are seeing a kind of growth in the amended budget; this is unacceptable. I was just talking about the deficit, but if the government debt continues to increase to this extent, the Hungarians will be paying the price. What is particularly terrible about this is that we are a family-friendly party, that our children and grandchildren will moan about the government debt, which is now a failed policy. But let's talk a little bit, 'cause we're running out of time, about the Rehabilitation Fund, about the overhead. I told you that this is the budget for inflation and not the budget for the protection of electricity, but the government is very proud that the resources of the Rezief Protection Fund have been significantly increased from HUF 670 billion to HUF 2610 billion. This sounds very good, and we are also happy about that, because it is obviously necessary to protect Hungarians, as I have just said, from the global economic and global political process, which, by the way, led to the gas price being released. We continue to say that Hungary should serve the Hungarians with the cheapest, the easiest available gas, and if it is Russian, then it should be Russian. Here again, in parentheses, let me say that the government has certainly not missed the fact that there are several states among the Western states that are now looking for a third world war, which have increased trade flows against Russia, so not only would they have decreased, but they are even more trading with the Russians, and this does not include different trades under the law when they are bypassed. I am a representative living directly along the border, I could tell you a lot about how companies and businesses in European Union countries are using Serbia as a non-member of the European Union: they move the shipment, re-label it a little and trade it very nicely with Russia. On the other hand, Hungary was trying to announce a kind of honest economic policy, from which we will again be the worst out of it; this is also part of the fact that inflation was almost 25 percent at the end of last year. So I would like to draw the government's attention to this, and it would be very good to hear, not only at the level of communication, that Hungary is the first and the most important, and that only the interests of the Hungarians matter, but also, when it comes to economic policy, it would work that way, in addition to drawing attention to the economic tricks of other European Union countries. So, going back to the Rezségvédő Fund, it sounds good, it is important to protect Hungarians from this world political process, but now comes the black soup. In the case of payments in the energy sector, we see that the Rezief Protection Fund has been able to increase significantly because the revenues have increased by HUF 474 billion in the energy sector, so that much more revenue is coming into the Rezief Protection Fund. Well, this is a significant part of the 95 percent extra-profit special tax on MOL, and we just drew attention months ago to the fact that through this, and unfortunately again, I have to say that this is a trick, the trick of price caps made Hungarians and Hungarians pay the price again, because the Hungarians are gasping, the Hungarians are actually paying this money into the Rezségvédelmi Fény. [[11.00]] This is once again the government policy when the Hungarians take money out of one pocket and then place it in the other pockets of the Hungarians with huge communication dishes. But let's look at some specific data, because I have very little time left. If I look at the expenditures, why the expenditure side has grown so much, I am saddened to see that health care remains underfunded, and it is outrageous and unacceptable that Hungarians, Hungarian workers, are paying contributions, and it is now becoming increasingly difficult for private health, but virtually everyone forgets about public health. But then why do we pay, why do Hungarian workers pay any contributions, why do they withdraw from them? We expect a restructuring from the government, and in this connection we will submit proposals for amendments, which will treat the private and public sectors together and try to provide Hungarians with some real care, because it is an increasing problem, and it is no coincidence that the mortality rate is constantly increasing, and the huge problem is that Hungarians simply do not have adequate healthcare. We have already drawn attention to the fact that the government is counting on family support in the inflation budget for HUF 408 billion instead of 405, but once again our problem, the problem of the Group of the Hungarian Movement, is that it does not follow inflation. With such inflation, it is actually the same number, because it does not matter whether we are talking about HUF 405 or HUF 408 billion, family support is being devalued, so this should also be a follower of inflation. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) There is one more very important thing, because in 15 minutes you can't list everything that, I assume, no one in the Chamber outside the Group of the Hungarian Movement will talk about, and that is how our contribution to the functioning of the European Union has increased. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Because our economy has grown!]] We are always talking about the fact that the European Union is sending money to us Hungary, but the deposit is constantly increasing. In recent years, the amount of the contribution to the EU budget has increased significantly, from HUF 605 billion to HUF 662 billion in the inflation budget. So we've been seeing it for years and years, not only because of the Brexit, but also for other reasons, it's constantly growing. At this rate, the deposit will be HUF 1000 billion. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this is a business contract, an economic, business contract, not a political empire, but an economic community, at least that was lied to us at the time. Then the government will respect all the relevant parts of the business contract, so what is due to us, send it to Brussels, or if we do not receive that money, the Hungarian government will not send this contribution to Brussels with the Hungarian taxpayers' money until then. The minimum pension remains incredibly low, and from all this data, inflation, or even from the tricks of GDP, although it is now still decreasing, it is apparent that this economic policy ultimately results in real wages falling. In spite of the fact that there is a rise in wages, because obviously these figures can be shown in recent years, their real value is decreasing, and people are interested in real wages, and they are interested in such terrible inflation, such food inflation, what they can buy in the store and what they can't buy. That is why we will put forward amendments, and that is why we want the government to make a major change in its economic policy, in a comprehensive sense. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of our country.]]
u2023-03-01-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, the lead speaker of the LMP Group, who also wishes to give his speech on the pulpitus. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-03-01-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The proposal before us is evidence, evidence that Hungary does not have a responsible government and does not have a responsible budget. It's March, when we start talking about what we'd be spending on this year. That's absurd. There has been regulation governance in Hungary for a long time, which ignores popular representation and its main institution, the Parliament. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: We're negotiating now!]] Of course, for the ruling elite, this is very convenient, there is no need to argue, justify, state the upper decision and be done. In the meantime, they're pushing a piece of cheese paper with numbers in it, but they don't mean much, because it doesn't oblige the bailiff, which means the government, to do anything. You can change anything at any time, you can change it. However, we owe it to our voters to briefly explain how we value this amended budget. One of the most striking things is that despite the new budget, it has not been possible to respond to runaway inflation, apart from the fact that the government is trying to put in its pocket a thousand-billion-dollar extra profit, plus tax revenues. But there is no general public service wage increase, let alone a regular wage increase, but not even an inflation-following increase. There is nothing for educational workers beyond the 10% already promised in December, and this results in a roughly real wage reduction for them. In any case, we need to bring in the $320 billion aid to the Chinese battery company. We can therefore conclude that the consequences of Europe's champion inflation are not being dealt with by the new budget, thus pursuing a virtually restrictive policy. The energy crisis, the climate and the ecological crisis, the water shortage and the food crisis or the social crisis do not show any reaction to reality. It's like they're living in an ivory tower, where all that matters is that they can talk in Davos between multi-billion-dollar investors and executives, because their desire to comply with this global financial elite is moving their steps. That is why they are pleased when new foreign investments come, to be more precise: we are able to attract them from hundreds of billions of forints, even though Hungary is already completely open and extremely vulnerable to global markets, breakaway supply chains and turbulence. The construction of the domestic economy has been completely forgotten, bringing the multinationals here at all costs, self-cooling, this one remains as a goal. We are now experiencing this in connection with battery production, for which there are additional resources in the revised budget. During the so-called regional development tasks, we can see HUF 119 billion in investment to support battery manufacturers. However, there are no additional sources for domestic developments, renovations in energy efficiency buildings or water retention, for keeping the now abundant precipitation in soil. Although sustainability tasks and utility supplies are growing by HUF 23 billion, it is not possible to know exactly what kind of utility service or task this will be used for. We suspect that these may also be related to battery production, not to the renovation of the really bad drinking water network. After taking stock of changes or changes since summer, let's see what this budget means to the country in its entirety! As we said last year, we are living in critical times, the climate and ecological crisis, the economic crisis, the food crisis and the social crisis are intertwined, and this is aggravated by the war in the neighbourhood. In our view, it is not a small swing, it is not a passing error within the system, but a new era in which the crisis will be the new norm. This is what economic policy and other policies should be adapted to, and this budget should prove that the government has recognised all this and prepared the country for it, but unfortunately this is not the case. The only goal of the government is to deny change, to make itself and the voters believe that the world will soon be the same as it was, not just trying to freeze the price of certain products, but actually everything. However, if we look at the problems, we can identify three major problems to which the 2023 budget should answer. The first is the question of justice, because today we have a crisis that determines our daily lives, and unfortunately, there is a good chance that it will stay with us for a long time. The government obviously added its own share of electoral money and irresponsible energy policy to the runaway inflation. A crisis is always an additional burden for society, and it is almost entirely the government's competence to bear the extra burden. It is not carved in the stone that it is necessary to fight as a lion to keep Hungary a tax haven for foreign corporations in the middle of such a crisis, but we will look without a word at the fact that the two-month wages of civil servants are being taken away by inflation, which should not be the result of the government's decision. [[11.10]] This budget is unfairly dividing the burden, but this could easily be changed: it is simply another budget that should be adopted. The document we are discussing now, although it mostly contains numbers, is in fact a very clear social and economic vision behind the numbers. However, if we accept the instructions used by Viktor Orbán for Fidesz's policy, and we do not look at what they are saying, but what they are doing, it is quite clear that the current governing party is a committed believer in neoliberal economic policy, and in this belief they have not been shaken by the current crisis. For 13 years, Fidesz has been working to make large foreign companies feel as comfortable as possible in Hungary. They almost do not have to take part in public burdens, because the minimum corporation tax that is actually paid will be refunded with a small exaggeration, in the form of various subsidies. Workers' rights have been deliberately wiped out almost to the last straw in the last 13 years, so everything is given to exploitation. However, the biggest problem is that in the area of exploitation of workers, there is no foreign multinational who can reach the Hungarian government. Today, the government is clearly the worst employer in Hungary, and this dubious triumph has been more confident in the circumstances of the current crisis. [[Robert Szigó: That's not true!]] It's an unfair budget. It couldn't be anything else, because neoliberalism doesn't believe that the state can do justice, it's all trying to leave it to the market. We think very differently about that. We believe that the state's job is not to strengthen social differences, but to try to make them disappear. We believe that the state must set a positive example in the labour market, not teach exploitation lessons to multi-enterprises. We think that public employees will have to be paid much better, because only then will the state be able to provide a better service. We do not think that it is the right way to turn Hungary into a tax haven, while completely dismantling the state. Because a country will come a little further east, which will undertake to give even less money to its teachers, even less to deal with the care crisis, even worse to operate a health system, but it will bring the corporate tax down to 8 percent and give more tax incentives to multinationals, and then these companies will disappear as if they weren't here, and we'll be left out here, because we won't have competitive knowledge because of the education we've lost in the tax competition, because of the broken health system, and we won't be able to take part in the labour market anyway, because everyone will take care of their sick or elderly relatives at home instead of the government that's in the tax race. This crisis is always won by countries where those who are in a difficult situation don't get on the streets where loans don't fall, and where, of course, everyone pulls their belts a little, but nobody loses their pants. To do so, we need to spread the cost of the crisis evenly across society. This is what we propose: a fairer crisis management, a crisis management where capital does not overtake people, where the profits of large companies are not for a moment more important than the livelihood of civil servants. In a country where it is not clear that the more socially beneficial a person does work, the less he earns, where the government does not give the most support to the most able, but to those most in need. We propose that we increase the wages of all civil servants at least by the rate of inflation, and even say that, like pensions, civil servants' wages must always maintain their real value. Let us say that the state cares and listens to its own employees, and sees not only an opportunity in such a crisis to fire a few tens of thousands more and a few tens of thousands of others to change professions. This is also a fiscally responsible proposal, because every time inflation increases, the government's financial scope automatically increases, for example, teachers, social workers and civil servants pay much more VAT. Inflation makes the government richer and people poorer. The government would have plenty of money to protect its own employees; you would recognise this in the budget, when the initial summer budget was estimated at HUF 1600 billion in VAT revenue, which is now being filled with HUF 900 billion, i.e. an additional VAT of 2500 billion. In 2022, only the additional VAT revenue, i.e. the budget's extra profit, was HUF 1273 billion. The only thing missing is the political will to give back this extra profit to the state to those who have been harmed by inflation, because all their power is being taken away by the representation of the interests of foreign corporations and their own economic hinterland. Of course, wage increases to compensate for inflation are just the beginning. The public sector's wage situation needs to be corrected, and this is not a task that can be postponed due to the crisis. On the one hand, we have been putting it off for more than ten years, and on the other hand, this is the step that must be taken in such a crisis. Because let us not forget that the more just a society operates, the easier it will be to survive such a crisis, and the more we pay our civil servants, the better the state will work, the better health care, social care, education, and, ultimately, the better the country will work. It's hard to imagine a better investment than that. Fidesz wants to hide the problem of the care crisis. We want to face it and get to the bottom of it, because, in our view, it is not possible to settle this with the fact that it is the family's responsibility to care for elderly sick relatives. These people have paid taxes all their lives so that the state can take care of them, if they can't do it themselves, and now the state, like some bad fraud, doesn't keep its word. This will have an impact on the labour market after a while, since there will be no one to work if everyone meets their family obligations at home. In the field of energy, we have to face the fact that last year's huge fluctuations and increases are the beginnings of another era. It's not a temporary swing, it's the end of the cheap energy period. There's a solution to that, too. We recommend that a building insulation program be launched from HUF 300 billion a year, which has only an advantage. Firstly, it reduces energy demand, because we simply need to buy less Russian natural gas or American shale gas, and on the other hand, this is the real reduction in electricity, as it significantly reduces household expenditure. In addition, we would distribute this money on a social basis, compared to the last 13 years, not the richest, but the poorest would get it first. Moreover, the building insulation programme creates new jobs while significantly reducing air pollution. In addition to the social crisis and the energy crisis, the third major crisis that we are facing is the food crisis. A world where the more self-sufficient a country, the safer it is. And even though we are an agricultural country, it is still the case today that a significant part of the Hungarian families are simply priceless, healthy, quality and Hungarian food, mainly because most of the state subsidies spent on this are in the pockets of various agricultural barons. The lasting solution is to create our food self-determination. The destruction of agricultural land, which the government not only allows multinational battery manufacturers but even supports by hundreds of billions, is a national tragedy. Instead, what we need is to manage and cultivate our soils and soils in a sustainable way, and to renew our country's food sovereignty on this basis. Since I am at the end of time, I think that it is possible to sum up that this budget is in the best interests of Hungary but not Hungary; it is insensitive, neoliberal, and therefore unacceptable. Thank you very much.
u2023-03-01-20	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now up to the representative of nationality invited by the committee representing the nationalities to speak. I give the floor to Mr Imre Ritter, a German national representative, who explains the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language and then translates it into Hungarian. Mr. President, you have the floor. [[11.20]]
u2023-03-01-21	[[???Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parlament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt bezüglich des Gesetzentwurfs Nummer T/2667. über der Änderung des ungarischen Haushaltes für Jahr 2023. Gesetzt XXV/2022. im Zusammenhang mit dem Nationalitätenbedarf übergreifende Teilen erörtere.???]] Mr President, Dear House, Allow me to express the opinion of our committee. XXV of 2022 on Hungary's central budget for 2023. T/2667. on the national aspects of the legislation submitted to the European Parliament and to the Council. T/152 on the central budget for 2023 in the month of June 2022 In the general debate on the legislative proposal No.2 I intended to complete my first 20-minute comment on the very positive changes that took place in the eight years between 2014 and 2022 following the provision of the parliamentary representation of indigenous nationalities in Hungary. I concluded by saying that on behalf of the 13 indigenous nationalities living in Hungary, I must thank the Hungarian government in the first place without reservation, since all decisions were theirs, but the entire Hungarian Parliament, each former and present Member of Parliament, has been given nationality support over the last eight years, with which less than 4 billion grants in 2014 have increased to nearly HUF 24 billion, or nearly six times, in 2022. At the same time, I also stressed that in the last seven or eight decades, the multitude, omissions, and crimes of the nationalities in Hungary, the negative consequences of those actions cannot be corrected and corrected by the results of seven or eight years of good practice. This takes decades. The last eight years have only been enough to hold on, to receive faith again, and to take a new impetus on that path, to launch national minority programmes that we hope will ensure the survival of indigenous nationalities and the survival of our nationality. Unfortunately, the Covid crisis in 2020-2021, and then the tragic war situation in 2022, the energy crisis, have broken this positive progress and intensified a number of negative processes that I had already predicted in the negotiations on the budget bill of 23rd. We knew that we would have significant extra costs in several areas, despite this understanding of the problems facing our country, we accepted our role in this, too, that, as in 2021, there will be no increase in national minority support in the Budget Act. I would like to stress that all 13 nationalities have accepted this in a uniform way, in agreement. Since then, eight months have passed, the events of which have unfortunately confirmed our earlier predictions. In the 2023 budget year, there are three major areas with significant additional costs requiring central action. These are: The first is, of course, to ensure that the additional cost of energy is covered. For the fourth quarter of 2022, national authorities and their national minority public education institutions received some HUF 405 million in additional energy cost compensation, which I also thank. In the area of technical implementation, it was very positive that, although compensation for the number of children was involved, the grants could be adapted to the actual needs of the national and local national authorities within the envelope, taking into account the institutional specialities. We are now carrying out an ex-post assessment of the extent to which the overall guaranteed HUF 405 million covered the actual additional costs. In 2023, we thanked the Government Decree and its amendment, which allowed the gas pricing of national authorities and their reserved public education institutions. In addition to the gas price fixed in euro, there are, of course, still a number of uncertain but important factors, such as the euro/forint exchange rate, actual consumption, the amount of system charges and the rest. Nevertheless, I dare say with great certainty that, in 2023, national authorities and their reserved public education institutions will need about HUF 2 billion in energy compensation. We will carry out a detailed assessment of the expected specific needs in the first half of 2023 and will make it available in the month of March 2023. The second area of serious concern is the financing of the costs of mass catering. In the last week, we completed a specific survey per institution for more than 4,500 children of the 27 ethnic public education institutions maintained by the nine national governments, an assessment of effective mass catering revenues and expenditure in 2021 and 2022. On this basis, it is an objective fact that funding of HUF 126 million was missing in 2021, which increased nearly to HUF 247 million in 2022. Seeing the first two months of inflation in the second half of 2022 and this year, including food inflation, the 27 public education institutions maintained by nine national governments will have a deficit of around 500 million in the year 2023. A survey is currently under way of ten thousand children of the 75 public education institutions maintained by the 55 local minority self-governments, where the additional cost of 2023 without funding will be HUF 1 billion in size. Here, too, we must stress the need for a significant increase in the basic norm, but it is also necessary, on the basis of a study per institution, to compensate on a case-by-case basis, because there may be very significant differences from the average to some institutions in a positive and negative direction depending on the size of the number, the cooking or heating kitchen, the local government or the institution's catering and so on. To sum up the first two points, I can say that overall compensation in the area of energy and public catering will be about HUF 3.5 billion. Of course, in both areas, we will demonstrate the legitimacy and necessity of this with objective data drawn up by institutions and by nationalities. The third large area is the provision of resources to increase the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage and the sectoral bonus for teachers. In this regard, it is reassuring to us that, on the one hand, Mr Péter Benő Banai at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets on 13 February 2023, and Dr. Ábel Berczik, Deputy State Secretary, on 21 February, informed the Association of National National Government that the Government intends to contribute to the development of wages from 1 January 2023 by providing additional subsidies to non-state non-government public education institutions, in addition to the specific amounts of support items set out in Annex 8 to the Budget Act of 2023. The social consultation of the draft Government Decree on the provision of this will be launched shortly, and the coverage of wage measures will be provided to the maintenance staff at the same time as the April monthly grant, until 1 January 2023. [[11.30]] Thank you for the measure. We believe that this will help to ensure that the resources needed for wage development are well-resolved. In addition to energy, catering and wage development, these three priority resource areas are, of course, backed up by shoes in several other places, but the size of these areas is not comparable to the previous three, and we are trying to solve and get through them on our own. I would like to make a clear reference to the need and justification for compensatory claims, the differences arising from the different financing situations of public education institutions in different reservations. Firstly, Klebelsberg, the largest public education institutionkeeper, is financed on a normative basis from the budget, and the necessary additions can be settled by the government through transfers provided by the Central Budget Act. In the case of public education institutions maintained by local municipal authorities, which are primarily and typically kindergartens, state normative support can be complemented by local authorities' needs, needs and, where possible, their own revenues. Thirdly, in addition to normative support, a settlement is made at the end of each year in respect of church-owned public education institutions and the necessary compensation is covered by a central budget. However, in the case of public education institutions maintained by local and national minority authorities, besides normative support, the maintainer does not have an additional option, since he does not have his own income and there is no accounting at the end of the year similar to the church. However, the task taken over by the State of public education is, of course, the sole task of ensuring that the extra costs that have been proven are covered by the State. At the same time, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, on the part of the national authorities, we ourselves are doing everything we can to try to survive these difficult situations and years for the whole country, to add our share to the common solution. To this end, we have rethought our priorities according to today's situation. In this context, we have put first the maintenance of the functioning of the national public education and cultural institutions that we maintain. Of these, I have spoken in detail about public education institutions, and cultural institutions are of a lesser financial magnitude; I do not wish to discuss this now because of a time gap, but there is a task with them. Our second priority is the unbroken continuation of the national minority educator programme launched in 2017, which is the only way to ensure that in the coming years and decades we have an adequate number of properly trained ethnic educators. Therefore, we must maintain and even improve the system of minority pedagogue replacements, expand the system of ethnic student scholarships, and, after providing a legal background, ensure the conditions for appropriate quality and quantity of education at training centres. With the latter, we also have tasks in the field of universities and colleges, but there is also progress in this area. I see now that funding conditions are in place for the continuation of the national education programme. The third large area is the maintenance of the functioning of ethnic cultural associations, the fourth large area is the maintenance of the functioning of the minority self-government system. I think that if the compensation for the reserved institutions is done properly, then we have financial means of operating in these areas too. On this basis, we will not now submit concrete amendments to the 2023 budget, but, on the basis of the continuous data survey, we will submit to the Government several times during the year the necessary national compensation needs and look forward to their positive and effective fulfilment. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-03-01-22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-03-01-23	[[His mic's not working.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Intercoms, among them: No sound!]] The microphone is green. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[They put a portable microphone on your desk. Interjection: The microphone is not in the right place!]]
u2023-03-01-24	He didn't move? Then here's your help. I'd like the clock back on, please. [[It's happening.]] Thank you.
u2023-03-01-25	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Let me have a few reactions. Congressman Csárdi said that he had looked into the budget and found numbers; and Mr Csárdi noted with indignation that there were figures in the budget. And by the way, good numbers, that's right, which is why I don't understand why it's critical. I would like to respond to Mr Toroczkai, who said that no one will talk about the funds paid to the European Union. We're happy to talk about this. We don't have that kind of fear. I hope you know, Mr President, that there are three pieces of data, and how much we are paying to the European Union. The most significant are GNI, national gross income, and the second is a certain rate of taxes collected, and the third is customs duties. There is no customs duty within the European Union, so all external duties are transferred to the European Union as it manages customs duties. If any data is growing, it means that the Hungarian economy is growing, it means that Hungarian people are earning better than gross national income. So you are right that we are paying more into the European Union and in recent years we have paid more because more goods have come through Hungary to the European Union and thus customs revenues have increased in this respect. Several goods came through Hungary to the European Union, which we Hungarians also made, plus gross national income, which means that you saw the numbers, that during the Covid crisis, during the war, and especially what economic growth the Hungarian economy had done before. So, in nominal terms, you are right, it is only the case that there is much more money left in the Hungarian economy, in Hungarian businesses, in Hungarian employees, because this is in proportion, and the European Union calculates it. He is only right in one item: obviously the Hungarian contribution increased because of the Brexit, but the larger part of the growth, if you look at this, was that the Hungarian economy did better, and the Hungarian businesses did better. So what I'm saying is that we should go this way rather than say that we paid less, and that's okay, but the Hungarian economy would be in deep flight, and the Hungarian businesses would be in line. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They'd be bankrupt. I think it should be the previous one, not the one you represent. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-03-01-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Ritter, representative of nationality. Here you go.
u2023-03-01-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I apologize for applying for a short two-minute interview shortly after my speech. I did not wish to disassemble the speech with an evasive thought, but I would like to point out that I have recently come back from Germany, Bavaria, Munich, where I have had the opportunity to speak with the Vice President of Bavarian Landtag, the Chairman of the Finance Committee, a number of leading politicians. They've confirmed the fact that I've already known that kindergartens in Bavaria are closed in a series. Not because there are no two kindergarten teachers or even one in each group for the whole kindergarten, but because they cannot provide a kindergarten teacher or baby-sitter with a high school degree, but with appropriate vocational training for child-reservation, despite the fact that despite the provincial agreement, they pay EUR 300 per month plus, and they cannot ensure that a person is qualified to have a child-reservation degree in a kindergarten. So we're not talking about raising children, we're talking about development, we're talking about training for school, we're talking about preservation, and they can't provide that either. This is in Bavaria, which is one of Germany's largest and strongest provinces economically, politically and culturally. [[11.40]] It is therefore of paramount importance for us that we do not give up the educational programmes that we have launched, since they need to be trained now in order to have a minority educator five or eight years from now. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-01-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied for a written speech. Mr Csaba Nagy, Fidesz Group, will be speaking. You have the floor.
u2023-03-01-29	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. I've been thinking a lot about what to talk about on the way over here. Well, listening to opposition speakers, I join my fellow Member Nacsa: I was pleased to discover in the speakers' comments that there were some who looked into the bill and even saw numbers. Several of my fellow Members have indicated that they have a legal concern about the method, the theme that this bill has come to us. I think that if they had read the bill themselves and looked into the legal background, it would be quite clear to them that the Hungarian government has complied with all the relevant legislation that the Hungarian Parliament has adopted. The general government law and the law on Hungary's economic stability have also been followed by the government, and this is how the bill that we are discussing comes before the Fiscal Council. I would like to highlight three points that are important to me here. With regard to the draft amending budget law, the Council found that it had no fundamental objections to its credibility that would justify a sign of disagreement. This is, by the way, a very important responsibility for the Fiscal Council. In general, I would like to highlight two more points. One is that the Council supported the measure that concerns the fact that if the real value of GDP increases by more than 1.5 per cent in 2023, the resulting additional revenue should be used to mitigate the deficit. The Council also notes that from 73.5 percent expected by the end of 2022, the government debt indicator will be reduced to 69.7 percent by the end of 2023. I think these are very, very important text phrases. In other words, this means that there is no legal doubt about the assessment of this draft law and there is no problem with the basic budgetary objectives. A lot of people talked about a lot of things. There was a fellow Member who said that there was no reason to support this budget law, and it was even said that we should repeal it and that our fellow Member LMP declared the budget law neoliberal and insensitive. I've gathered a few things for myself that can be read from this proposal, and I'd like to talk about them. I apologize if there are many repetitions, but I think the public must be interested in what we are doing to maintain, for example, the family support system. In order to appreciate work and child rearing, we maintain the family tax system, family and contribution allowances. I think that anyone who raises and faces these advantages will say that there is finally a tax system in Hungary that supports child rearing and attitudes towards work. We always say that in Hungary 15 percent is personal income tax. This is one of Europe's lowest personal income taxes. Last year we introduced tax incentives for young people under the age of 25. If a person acquires entitlement and is pregnant, he does not have to pay personal income tax from this year until the age of 30. We'll continue with the home-building program. I would not mention this in detail, because it would take a great deal of time, but I think that those who are familiar with it know what essential elements of support are. We have introduced a food price stop, and we are trying to maintain this against, counter, and mitigate, sanctioned inflation until inflation is on a downward path. The residential interest rate stop works, which affects 350,000 families. Students and college students who study under the Student Loan2 programme receive interest-free loans, while half of the market interest is payable under the Student Loan1 loan scheme. On Monday, Prime Minister said that we had further reduced the costs for the bank base account, and the government's latest decision is that it will introduce the county lease in the first half of the year, which I think will basically support the people living in small towns. I always remember in parentheses how important this government programme is, through my own work, and how important it is that these subsidies are included in the budget law. In Baranya, more than 17,000 cubic metres of wood have been distributed under the social firewood programme, and within the framework of the firewood programme, which the government introduced with a guaranteed price, 22 700 cubic metres of wood have been distributed to people. If we go through the family support system, family policy and see how many lines of budget law, how many lines of appropriations we can talk about supporting families on a programme line, we see 50 of these lines. I would like to highlight one or two of these, because I think that we should always talk about these issues, because if we listen to the voices of opposition representatives here in Parliament, then it seems that the government has not done anything. In parentheses, I note that there are opposition representatives who are disturbed by the government's work and accused the government of even working at night. I don't really know where to put these comments. I think it is good for a government to work, and it is good for it to work at night, especially when we are talking about a period of war in the neighbouring country, and everyone who is responsible is afraid that this will escalate in the coming period. Returning to the family support system, I would like to highlight a few more appropriations. The Hungarian government launched and introduced support for free textbook supply. But to give figures in the budget debate: in 2023 this means HUF 13.2 billion. We will also carry on the support of the children's and youth camps in Elizabeth. Here, thousands of children can take vacations and participate in programs. I think we may be talking about the most successful summer program in our education system. If someone has spoken to parents or children whose relatives have been on vacation in such camps, he knows that children with shiny eyes are always mentioned at the end of the programs. It is included in this support scheme to support the first successful language exam for young people, with nearly HUF 2 billion in reimbursement of some of the costs associated with obtaining young people's driving licenses by more than HUF 1 billion. We support those who go to college and take out targeted loans as students. Baby shower grants are included in the budget with HUF 178 billion. Support for student loans by HUF 11 billion, housing subsidies by HUF 383 billion, pension provision for women below the age limit by HUF 440 billion, baby care fee by HUF 154 billion, protective service, mother, child and youth protection by HUF 27 billion. I think these are the items that deserve to be highlighted and talked about from these fifty lines. And if you look at the amount of the family tax base discount, you can see that HUF 323 billion is involved. The discount of the under 25-year-olds is HUF 160 billion, and the four-year-old mother's personal income tax exemption is HUF 35 billion. We plan that the benefit of mothers under the age of 30 will take HUF 5 billion from the budget as a subsidy this year. These figures mean that the Hungarian government is standing behind families and people who are trying to spend the time they have at their disposal to create their existence. [[11.50]] And perhaps one last thought before I ask you to support the bill, the acceptance that this whole program will be complemented by the cost protection that will reach the families. This means, according to current estimates, that we support the family's electricity account by paying about half of the market price compared to the average consumption and by paying one quarter of the gas price for families. This means that we support the livelihood of families by about HUF 181 thousand per family and monthly in 2023. I would like to ask my fellow Members that the XXV on Hungary's central budget for 2023 be adopted. T/2667 on the amendment of our law, which was adopted in 2022. The bill number 1 is adopted, since it protects the interests of Hungary and the interests of Hungarian families. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-01-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Tamás Szeberényi, Fidesz Group. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-03-01-31	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill before this House, the amendment of the budget law, as required by the genre, in addition to responding to the changes in the external economy and the resulting challenges since the adoption of the law, in particular the processes in the energy sector, seeks to preserve the original goals and spirit. Since 2010, the important objective of government and government parties has been to increase real wages and to implement predictable career plans, by indirect means to help raise real incomes in all areas of the national economy. It continuously improves the income situation of public sector employees, taking into account the economic performance and budgetary situation, by continuing career plans and by taking additional wage measures. In 2023, the focus is on health and public education workers. In order to provide the Hungarian people with high quality healthcare and respect for healthcare workers, the government will continue its wage development programme over the past period. In addition to the comprehensive medical wage development programme launched from 2021 for several years, the government will carry out a wage increase on 1 July, 2nd and 2nd March 2024 in order to recognise the work of health professionals. The average basic wage of health professionals should reach 37% of the average basic salary for medical medicine, which is the same as the average ratio of European medical and professional wages. The government is committed to raising the wages of teachers and, accordingly, as the first step of the new increase, the salaries of teachers increased by 10 percent in 2023 by 1 January, with a further correction being made in the course of the year following the availability of EU funds. The budget shall cover all life-cycle programmes and wage measures taken. The budget of the chapters shall cover the careers and wage measures for which the sum of both the institutional circle and the necessary surplus is clearly defined. Accordingly, the salary increase was built on the basis of the National Tax and Customs Office, public education, the cultural sector, the social sector, justice, law and defence. On the other hand, the provision contains cover for decisions whose funding needs are known in magnitude, but may only be allocated between the institutions concerned on the basis of a specific survey in 2023. Such items include, inter alia, expected extra payments from gross national average earnings, the surplus of the 2022 increase in the law enforcement system and the surplus of the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage. The Crown Virus crisis and the war that broke out in 2022, as well as the economic consequences of the sanctioning crisis, the protection of the results of recent years and the maintenance of overhead support, also required tax measures to improve fiscal balance. This is the aim of the temporary special taxes, which focus on sectors where market developments have led to a significant over-planned profit, where the excess profit was not justified either by an excess investment or by an increase in sales volume, but only at the same expense, revenue and profit increased significantly. Energy market processes have greatly increased the profits of hydrocarbon production, which justifies an increase in the mining fee. The increased price difference between Ural and Brent oil has also resulted in a significant extra profit in the sector, for which a special tax base has been introduced. As a result of the increase in central bank interest rates required in a negative inflation environment, the bank's interest rate differential has increased and a new temporary tax liability based on interest rates and fees has been introduced for credit institutions. For sectors where this was justified by market developments, new extra-profit taxes have been introduced, as well as previously introduced sectoral special taxes, such as retail taxes, telecommunications and insurance taxes, and taxes on pharmaceutical manufacturers and distributors. Furthermore, the extension of the FTT was justified. On the other hand, further steps have been taken to strengthen the role of taxes for traffic, health and the environment, with the long-term objectives of tax policy. There is also a need to increase certain items of excise duty through the neutrality of EU directives and taxation and to strengthen the role of public health product tax. Following the example of many European countries, a tax on air traffic, taking into account environmental aspects, was introduced. The rules will also be reviewed and the rates will be valorised for a number of specific tax types where they have not changed significantly in a longer period of time. Where possible, automatic indexation of the rate has also been introduced in the future in order to ensure that revenue from these is not eroded in the future. A review of simplified employment rules is justified by the fact that, during the period of dynamic wage increases, this rate has not changed, so it now provides a significant tax advantage for workers subject to the general rules, increasing the risk of abuse. In the case of the company's car tax, the rates have been revised. In the case of the cata, the spread of the non-compliant or abusive use of the tax made it necessary to change the rules, resulting in a significant proportion of previous cases being converted to further simplified flat-rate taxation. In the case of advertising tax, the suspension of the tax was extended and the tourism development contribution was suspended until the end of March 2023 in order to reduce the impact of the energy price shock which is particularly affecting the tourism sector. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill just submitted provides for predictable, stable operation for the public sector's sub-schemes, creating conditions for maintaining long-term growth in the economy. For all these reasons, I ask for the support of the bill. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-01-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches announced in writing. I am now giving the floor to Members who have applied for a speech in the normal time frame. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, Vice-President of the Parliament, representative of our country. You have the floor.
u2023-03-01-33	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to begin my speech with a quote from Professor Csath Magdolna, who put it this way in a study on the Hungarian economy:, We must conclude that, in addition to the state support for the deployment of extensive, quantitative investments, the additional assembly plants, including the particularly energy-intensive sectors, Hungary cannot move up the development ladder; if we continue to compete with inexpensive, foreign investments and not with knowledge, innovation, and a sustainable economic structure that produces high added value, we cannot bring in more developed countries without falling behind in the knowledge and innovation-based competition in the quality of life and standard of living. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, [[12.00]] I would like to explain the criticism expressed by the professor in a little more detail and in concrete terms in my speech, starting with perhaps one of the biggest problems, the so-called cheapness, namely the extremely low level of wages in Hungary. According to KSH, the average wage in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county is the lowest, HUF 238 thousand net, but if you look at the median wage on the national average, it is 63,000 forints less. So we can say that in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county there can be a median wage of approximately 175 thousand forints, and that there is such a huge difference between the average wage and the median wage, 63 thousand forints, it shows that there are a lot of people who earn less than the average wage. In other words, many earn little and few earn much, especially in these dwindling regions. If we look at the minimum wage level in Hungary, we should look at an EU comparison, because we have come to the conclusion that it is only Bulgaria that gives the workers a lower minimum wage; Hungary is the second in this competition from behind. And we need to remember here specifically about public workers, who not only have extremely low wages, but also health professionals, employees in education, public administration, law enforcement, defence, almost all state workers, not only have low wages, but they have been blackmailed in recent years by forcing vaccinations. The government clearly has no intention of raising these wages, as it is the Orbán government that has facilitated and eased the mass arrival of migrant workers into Hungary through legislative changes, which, by the way, runs counter to the cultural policy that is formulated, but it also weakens the wage and wage bargaining position of Hungarian workers, and it also hinders their ability to enforce the law to an extreme extent. András Schiffer goes to the point of saying that the government of Viktor Orbán has made it clear that the director is on the same side as Klaus Schwab's organization in the dilemma of regionalization versus relocalization. According to the Hungarian Movement, we should not be competing with inexpensive things, but rather with knowledge, and here we must turn to the situation of education, which I know has become extremely politicised over the past period, but I hope that my fellow Members can put aside these political words, which were primarily tipped by the left in the field of education policy, and we will look at the ability of the Hungarian education system to equip our children with the knowledge and knowledge that they will later be able to secure their position in the labour market. Because it is obvious, and I do not claim that this is the sole task of education, but when we talk about the budget, the labour market, the situation of workers, we cannot go without saying what state the Hungarian education system is in, because we are talking about future workers. If we look specifically at the fact that early school leaving in the education system has even increased since 2010, then we can say that even the indicators of socialist governments in this regard will be below the Fidesz government and even 60% of the Roma population in school leaving. So 60 percent of young Gypsies leave the education system without any marketable profession or qualifications, so they have no chance of getting a secure, decent living job. The question is how they will make a living and how they will live when they get out of the education system. In addition, 36 percent of Gypsy youth, 16-24-year-old Gypsy, do not study or work, so there is nothing in the socialisation system that could be expected to be integrated, and the government is not doing anything about this situation. Once again, the proportion of early school leavers in Hungary has increased even compared to the time of socialist governments. And if we look at the health of the workers, which is also highlighted in this study by Magdolna Csath, it would also be necessary for the competitiveness of Hungarian workers to improve the health of the Hungarian population. Compared to this, Hungary is the second worst in the European Union with regard to avoidable deaths, so Hungary is one of the worst in terms of deaths for which it is only possible to prevent by changing lifestyles. The government does not yet have a health strategy to change that. The three most common deaths in Hungary are death related to each lifestyle. So in addition to improving the health status of the Hungarian population in health care, we could save extra money if we made the Hungarian population more aware, but I also have bad news in this regard, because partly because of the Covid closures, partly because this is a neglected area on the part of the government, it is worse in terms of all indicators than it was ten years ago. I have to highlight obesity, for example, which shows a clear correlation with Covid closures, since at that time the proportion of overweight and obese people increased by 4-5 kg, but even among young people, despite the introduction of daily physical education. This is also a clear link to poor nutrition and, unfortunately, Hungary is one of the worst in the case of alcohol consumption and smoking. There is an example in the European Union that the political elite has joined forces and developed a health strategy that has been decisive for decades. These are the Scandinavian states, where alcohol consumption was an extremely big problem, and the indicators of this are visible. This would be necessary in Hungary, which, once again, would be morally beneficial for the Hungarian population, and would also improve the competitiveness of workers, and would save billions in health care as well. This would require only political will and the real owner of this area in the government. CHAPTER XXI In the first century, the government clearly stated that it sees the future in battery factories and battery production, and in this it would like to endow Hungary with at least one medium-power state, according to some statements, and the investments are carried out accordingly in Hungary. On the other hand, the Mi Hazank Movement is more on the ground that we should build a knowledge-based economy of high added value, and it is primarily the food industry and healthy food in which we see the break-out point for Hungary, and this is not only a political issue, but also an environmental and green policy issue about what track we will put the Hungarian economy on in the coming decades. On the one hand, our gifts, and on the other hand our future, the XXI. In the first century, world politics also tells us that this would be necessary instead of installing battery factories. Moreover, this would result in the strengthening of Hungarian businesses, unlike what you are doing, which strengthens the money pump of the multinationals, as Viktor Orbán himself said in response to an immediate question that multinational companies present in Hungary are taking more money out of Hungary as a profit each year than we would otherwise receive as EU support, so to speak, this should naturally be placed in a quotation mark. So most of the funds coming to Hungary, even more money, are being pumped out from Hungary by the multinationals, and the same policy is being pursued with so much difference that they are not providing Hungary to one side, but now also to eastern investors. We believe that this is a mistake, self-determination, primarily food self-determination, which represents an outbreak point for Hungary, and instead of being cheap, we need a knowledge-based economy in Hungary, a health strategy and an economic policy focusing on people, Hungarian workers and Hungarian businesses. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]] [[12.10]]
u2023-03-01-34	Thank you very much, Congresswoman, Madam Vice President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Brenner Koloman, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2023-03-01-35	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The budget also shows the value choice the government thinks about our country. If we look at the budget for 2023, we can see that the areas of public education, education and vocational training are clearly the losers of this value choice, which the Fidesz one-party overpower in this debate has made in an interesting way and then in a manifest situation. After all, when we discussed the 2023 budget in a general debate last year, our responsible, conservative political community pointed out that it would be necessary to reassure the pedagogical community as a kind of zero point for an immediate 50 percent increase in wages for teachers. But this is only a zero step in the turn of Klebelsberg, which is at the heart of our conservative policy, which would mean that, in proportion to GDP, in such an extremely difficult economic and social crisis, which we are just heading towards... and which is very difficult for all Hungarian citizens to bear because of the rise in unbearably high inflation and food prices, because the Fidesz economic policy has clearly triggered this inflation. It is therefore clear that a 50 per cent immediate wage increase for the teachers, which we submit to this budget on behalf of the Group of Jobbik-Conservatives, is only a first step in the comprehensive modernisation that would be necessary to ensure that the Hungarian education system is governed by Article XXI. Let's adjust it to the challenges of the century. This is a figure of 340 billion, by the way, fellow Members. This is exactly the amount that the Fidesz one-party overpower, getting tired of Pegasus using Israeli spy software to listen to opposition emotional journalists and politicians... quite simply by buying Vodafone, you have already made this wiretap software redundant, because you have purchased one of the largest mobile operators. And that is why I say that this is a value choice, my fellow Members, because you do not spare HUF 340 billion for such a acquisition. The Prime Minister indicated here that windbags will probably be on the rise, so the Liszt Ferenc Airport will also be on the basis of a common tax forint, probably on credit... because obviously, until then, the European Union funds will not arrive because of your power to build up a one-party overpower and to break the rule of law. And no, the argument, honourable fellow Members, that the Fidesz State Secretarys and the Fidesz colleagues here said first, is false and cynical, that it will be possible when the European Union funds arrive, beyond a 10% wage increase for teachers. European Union funds, my fellow Members, would arrive at that moment even the funds of the renovation fund have already been spent by other well-functioning, balanced civil democracies. You will not receive it because you have invaded my Hungarian state, have broken the rule of law, and you are surprised to be held accountable for it. Don't be surprised, but restore decent, balanced civil democracy. And immediately, the European Union funds, which were due to Hungarian citizens and not to support them, but to Hungarian citizens, could have been delivered to Hungarian citizens in this extremely difficult economic and social situation, but your choice of values makes this impossible. And every month, when Minister Navracsics prolongs the fact that the resources will only arrive in the summer, and then at the end of the year, I suppose, similar to the delay... And then you can brunze, you can train enemies. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: We don't train enemies!]] And it's possible to create hatred. Congratulations if this is your choice of values. I respectfully ask everyone to consider supporting the Jobbik-Conservative faction [[Nacsa Lőrinc: But there is no such faction!]] suggesting an immediate 50 per cent increase in the wages of teachers. This would be a zeroth step in a common national case where we should set, on a longer-term basis, those developments that modernise the Hungarian education system, without party politics. And no, we should not argue on NAT that Wass Albert or Harry Potter, because both should be read, if one quarter of the 15-year-olds were not functional illiterate, we should not argue about it, but how to modernise the Hungarian education system, which our conservative political community believes should be administered with a comprehensive Ministry of Education from kindergarten to university, because this current, completely fragmented ministerial structure makes absolutely impossible the holistic education development we believe in. Therefore, in practice, a broad national consensus would need to be reached on the basis of Article 21 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 21 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union. In the centuries of knowledge and information, we should not spend 6 percent, but 8 percent of the total national product, as our ancestors did in the time of Count Klebelsberg Kuno. And I remember that Count didn't point to Clemenceau at the time, why we couldn't use our own budget to spend money on the education system. I therefore call on this House, my fellow Members, to support the proposals of the Jobbik-Conservative Group. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: There is no such faction!]] Thank you for your kind attention.
u2023-03-01-36	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Károly Kontra, Fidesz Group.
u2023-03-01-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Today, security is the most important community value that determines our daily lives. This applies both to Homeland Security and to the protection of our borders. Protecting Hungary's peace, preserving Hungarian national values, Hungarian national interests and sovereignty is a priority for our country to remain a strong and safe country in all respects. Thus, in addition to the key role of defence, areas of public security will continue to be given a high priority in the budget. Thus, one of the priority areas of the 2023 budget is security, which can be seen from the amount available for defence, with more than 50 percent and nearly 482 billion forints more in the area over a year. This means that defence spending increases more than six times compared to 2010 to approximately HUF 1395 billion. Dear Parliament, I think that preserving the results achieved together over the last 12 years is a very important task, since Hungary has become a strong and safe country, one of the safest countries in Europe, thanks to the efforts made over the last 12 years. I therefore believe that the resources provided in the 2023 budget give me the opportunity once again to provide the necessary resources both for internal security and for the protection of our borders, so that Hungary's peace, security, peace and security of the Hungarian people can be guaranteed for the future. And we already thank both the professional staff of law enforcement agencies and the personnel of the military for the activities they do every day for the security of the Hungarian people. I would ask the Honourable Parliament, our honourable Members, to support the adoption of the proposal on the 2023 budget in the interests of the security of the Hungarian people. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-01-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, MSZP Group.
u2023-03-01-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. People living in and around Szekszárd, but I can safely say all of Tolna County and most of Somogy County, have been waiting almost 20 years for the M9 highway to be rebuilt. We have discussed this issue a lot, and we have talked about it every year in the previous year, when the current budget was adopted in its original form last year. I have also tabled an amending proposal for the current budget, but we would like to see it clearly on this issue. In the last spring campaign, Fidesz's parliamentary representative and candidate announced on several occasions in public that the solution would be found and that the M9 road would be built in Szekszárd and its region. The basic story is, perhaps you remember that after 16 years of speculation, at some point two or three years ago, according to a government concept, the M9 would not be built around Szekszárd, leaving the already built 20 kilometer section and the Danube bridge as a torso, but instead heading towards Mohács, and Szekszárd, Tolna county, Dombóvár, Bonyhád and its region would remain in the current medieval conditions from a transport and infrastructure point of view. [[12.20]] I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State why this budget does not contain a single line and penny for the M9 motorway. Is there a government intention, or has Szekszárd's Fidesz representative deceived the voters before and since the election? And if it's not, do you support the construction of the M9 motorway between Szekszárd and Kaposvár? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you.
u2023-03-01-40	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As no one has applied for a further two-minute speech, we will now continue with the speeches in the normal time frame. I give the floor to Congressman István Szabadi, the Group of Mi Hazank.
u2023-03-01-41	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear House, According to the general justification of the bill, Hungary's energy bill increased from EUR 7 billion to EUR 17 billion in 2022. The pro-government president of the Economic Commission also mentioned this huge increase in energy bills, but he did not add that the economic model based on foreign multinational companies contributed greatly to this, in addition to the increase in the price of energy sources. For the past 12 years, the government has settled for a high-energy assembly activity, while the energy needs are largely covered by imports. The Hungarian economy uses twice as much energy as Austria and Germany to produce a thousand euros of GDP and 80% more than the EU average. The reason for this is, on the one hand, the lack of insulation and energy modernisation of residential houses and public institutions; in recent years, we have seen very rightly the effort to replace this, but obviously we are not yet in the position to make energy-efficient investments in all residential houses. On the other hand, there are many large energy companies. For example, car manufacturers and chemical companies, and battery companies will continue to make our country's energy situation worse. Due to the drastic increase in energy prices, the import costs of energy sources in the EU increased from 2.5 per cent of GDP to 7.2 per cent between 2020 and 2022. In the case of Hungary, this indicator has increased from 4 per cent to 12.5 per cent, which means that in 2022, 8 per cent of GDP was spent on energy imports. They also forget to mention this in the general justification. According to KSH data, agriculture's energy use does not account for a fifth of industrial use. According to the Hungarian Movement, therefore, we need to build a knowledge-based, independent national economy based on domestic agriculture, and we are putting the emphasis on this precisely because the amount of energy used in agriculture is much less. Thank you very much.
u2023-03-01-42	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Tilki of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-03-01-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. It was interesting to listen to the lecture of Jobbik's speaker based on the cultural superiority, when they have a party president who used to burn an EU flag, and now one of the most enthusiastic supporters of sanctions in the European Parliament; and of course, Mr President, after he lectured us, he left the room. If he mentioned Kuno Klebelsberg, then let me quote one from Menyhért Lónyay, all the more so, since the first Hungarian and even the first finance minister of the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy may be current at the hearing of the budget. He once wrote: "It is undeniable that our situation is difficult, we have many reasons for concern, but not for disheartening as long as we can protect our legal rights by realizing the situation. I chose this quote because the recognition of the situation at the 2023 budget means that we realized that we had entered the age of danger, and as an individual parliamentary representative, as a representative of the easternmost constituency, I consider it very important that we provided more than HUF 2600 billion in the Rezségvédelmi Fund. We will continue to keep the premium for every Hungarian family up to the average consumption. This is particularly important for people and regions living in difficult circumstances; and because my region is located next to Transcarpathia, we feel in particular the weight of talking about the increase in the 23rd budget of defence by 1.5 percent, so the government also increases the Defence Fund, which is very important for us in the eastern part of the country. But to talk about a third element, family support affects all Hungarians. This is the family tax system based on the appreciation of work and child rearing, which pays one of Europe's lowest personal income tax rates, with a 15% tax rate and a family tax and contribution reduction for child rearing. We are pleased that all previous benefits, family policy benefits, and even from 2023, mothers who have had children before the age of 30 will be eligible. This will help to respond in every way to the fact that the demographic problem is one of the most important problems facing the European continent. And since I have just mentioned the President of Jobbik, who said that the points that we consider to be important are those that qualify the preparatory approach to the budget, I think it is very important that it is the protection of the budget, the increase in defence costs and the support of the family that comes into the focus of the budget, and I can calmly encourage my fellow Members to support the bill before us. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-01-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State if he would like to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2023-03-01-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Allow me to respond to what has been said in today's debate by gathering my thoughts into three main groups. First of all, I was surprised to hear the words at the beginning of the spring session of the Parliament about the unconstitutionality of the draft budget law, the withdrawal of the powers of the Parliament, and the legal dictatorship. It is quite peculiar, indeed, when it comes to saying to the chairman, Vice-President Latorcai, that the Honourable Parliament is now discussing the amendment of the budget law at a time when the government has respected all legal frameworks in terms of budgeting and then amending the budget. Everyone should be reminded that, in an emergency, the government has a constitutional right to establish an emergency order. We saw it in Covid's time, that practice stood the test of constitutionality, we saw it at the end of last year. At the same time, every faction and every representative of the Parliament can express their views on the amendment of the law before you. It is also natural that the amendment of the law came before the Honourable Parliament by consulting the Budget Council in advance. I therefore do not see the legal concerns that have now been raised in the Parliament, but, of course, in accordance with domestic legislation, the Constitutional Court can also form an opinion on this issue if one of the Members thinks that it is also worth using this standard control. As regards the transparency of the proposal before you, President Zoltán Vajda criticized it, and I hear many comments on transparency from opposition benches. [[12.30]] Firstly, I would like to draw everyone's attention to the motion that is the subject of today's debate. This contains a number of additional information which, under the legislation, should not be submitted to the Honourable Parliament; economic comparisons, so-called functional comparisons, multi-annual outlooks, which, I repeat, serve the purpose of giving the Honourable Parliament all the summary information and a more far-reaching outlook when deciding to amend the budget. I cannot accept the criticisms that the Hungarian budget is one of the most opaque budgets of the European Union. I'm thanking everyone. [[To Dr. Agnes Vadai:]] from a Member, from everyone, the European Union document or expected document which, on the basis of objective indicators, [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: You're very welcome, anytime. The president's ringing the bell.]] carry out this comparison for all its countries. So I'd like to fix it factually. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I'll show you one from before 2010, okay?]] that there is no document by the Commission of the European Union or any other international organisation concerning the transparency of the budget of all the Member States of the European Union, notably because the establishment of the budget is a Member State's competence and its structure is a Member State's competence. I am convinced that all information has been and is being provided to the Honourable Parliament in the past period. In this regard, I would also like to say that if a Member, a faction, has a need for additional information, I would like you to signal it to me. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] Moving on to content issues. I agree that the budget is also a choice of values, and this budget intends to continue in the current economic policy context the economic policy and value-based policy that we have seen since 2010. This budget, which is ahead of you, has its core values unchanged since 2010, this work and family. In the case of family support, it is worth telling you that, compared to the budget originally adopted in 2023, the government intends to spend nearly HUF 130 billion more on family support in total, so the combined value of both budget expenditure and tax benefits could increase by nearly HUF 130 billion. The expansion of family support does not mean that we can see results immediately overnight, but I must argue with Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát's statement that the inclusion of families in the centre has not been an experiment; he said that this experiment has failed. Mr President, you also mentioned a change in the fertility rate. I believe that a significant increase in the amount of family support has contributed to the substantial increase in fertility rates, and that the proposal before you adds a substantial new element to the system of family support, with the benefit of mothers under the age of 30, the sum of which, as we are currently counting on this measure, I think, goes beyond the goal of the desired children being born first. We all know that some of the children desired are not born because parents take the first child late. I think it might be a reason to agree that, in difficult times, the preservation or even expansion of family support is intended to achieve the demographic turnaround, the 2.1 fertility rate. So family is one pillar of the budget, work is the other pillar. I will be very brief, because the debates on values have been held earlier, but the findings in the work that we are talking about a country in bankruptcy in the context of the budget debate, when we are talking about whether real wages are going to increase or not, and Mr Toroczkai, Mr Group leader, or others say that real wages are falling, must be factually rejected. The economic background of the amendment before you, the work- and family-oriented economic policy, is that in these difficult times, we can say that the number of people employed has never been as high as it is now, and wages and not only nominal wages, but also real wages, have increased substantially. If we look at the last few years alone, the real earnings growth in 2010 was above 10 percent, in 2018 it was above 8 percent, in 2019 it was close to 8 percent, in 2020 it was above 6 percent in the peak of Covid, in 2021 it was above 3 percent, in 2022 it was about 4 percent. And this year, we are counting on real wages as a whole to maintain their purchasing value, i.e. the rise in wages around inflation, hopefully slightly above. High employment, substantial real wage increases from the past period, the preservation of real wages this year therefore characterizes the economic environment that provides the basis for this year's amending budget. As regards real economic performance, serious findings were made, a technical recession or a bankrupt country, which was mentioned by MEP László Varju. Then let us remind ourselves that from 2013, after the turn of growth, the expansion of the Hungarian economy every year exceeded the average of the European Union, and the real catch-up resulted in a growth rate of not exactly 63 per cent in 2010 at the time of our accession to the EU in 2004, of only 66 per cent, i.e. a GDP-proportional catch-up of 3.3 percentage points, which was 75 per cent in 2021, according to the last Eurostat data. Thus, the economic catch-up from 2010 to 2021 was three times as high as between 2004 and 2010. Let us not forget that there was an economic downturn in 2008-09, and there was an economic downturn during Covid. Under Covid, the recession in Europe was deeper than it was in 2008-09. Thank God, the performance of the Hungarian economy under Covid was better than the EU average. We cannot say this about the time of the previous great crisis. If this year the Hungarian government's forecast is implemented, the expansion of the economy may exceed the EU average, as in the previous period. The European Commission calculates an economic expansion of 0.8 per cent for the EU as a whole. As has been said several times, we believe it is realistic that the Hungarian economy can grow near 1.5 percent. Inflation. Mr Toroczkai said that the budget for inflation should be the budget for 2023. I would remind everyone that if we look at Eurostat figures, we can see that from the beginning of 2022 there has been an enormous increase in inflation in all European countries, not only in Europe, but also elsewhere in the world. So we are not talking about a Hungarian specialty when we see high inflation figures. Change in energy accounts. Why is it such a burden in Hungary? Because, once again, Hungary is an energy dependent country based on EU figures, Hungary has a much higher share of imported energy than in other countries. We are not an oil and gas power, thank God there is domestic extraction, which is expanding, but again, according to our capabilities, the change in energy prices in Hungary has a greater impact than elsewhere, and, yes, this is reflected in prices as well. This is why it is important that we try to help families that would otherwise find it difficult to finance the growth of the energy account with the help of the USO. The whole annual level of inflation can be around 15 per cent by seeing even higher inflation figures in the first half of the year, with a substantial decrease in the second half of the year, thanks to government action as well. Mr Dániel Z. Karpat drew attention to pensioner inflation. For information, I would like to say that in November, if it appears necessary to supplement pensions, it will be based on pensioner inflation; if pensioner inflation is higher than average inflation, the pensioner consumer basket will be taken into account by the government when the supplementary increase is decided, if necessary. The performance of the real economy can therefore, in our opinion, be higher than the EU average this year. The level of employment can remain high, thanks to the measures taken in today's debate, and we hope that this can be accompanied by positive developments in the indicators of public finances. [[12.40]] Everyone should be reminded that last year the government debt-to-GDP ratio was 72.9 percent on the basis of the preliminary data of the central bank. This shows a substantial decrease last year compared to the end of 2021, and we expect the debt ratio to fall below 70 per cent. I agree with Mr Toroczkai that it is important, in addition to the debt ratio, to pay attention to financing costs. Yes, higher inflation represents a higher interest rate burden, and it is therefore essential that the budgetary path presented by 2026 has fallen deficit and debt levels. If I have mentioned the value of the budget and the importance of work and family, then economic policy, in addition to work and family, focuses on making the position of domestic companies favourable. Today there has been a debate about whether this economic policy, which the government has been following since 2010, is either on the side of multinationals or on the side of domestic SMEs. Let me have a sports metaphor. All teams need offensive and defensive players. I do not think that it is appropriate to simplify Hungarian economic policy so much that whether foreign-owned companies have a place in Hungary or not, only Hungarian-owned companies should operate in this country or not. I think we need both ownership companies. The government therefore follows a selective approach when deciding to support different firms. There are general discounts, typically available to small and medium-sized enterprises, such as Hungarian-owned companies, from preferential taxation through support programmes, which was also mentioned in the amendment of this year's budget law on energy subsidies and, yes, targeted investment support for the investment of foreign-owned companies in Hungary as well. The battery factory has been said many times. I ask that everyone consider that it is appropriate to give up the possibility that the production of vehicles representing 25 percent of the Hungarian industry will be strengthened, whether or not to remain here. I say this because from 2035 it is not possible to manufacture an internal combustion engine under EU rules. We know how important it is not only in Hungary, but in many countries of Europe, the automotive industry and the automotive industry. I think it is appropriate to strengthen these existing Hungarian production capacities by strengthening one of the future's power sources, battery production in Hungary. Of course, this can only be done according to environmental rules that are more stringent in Hungary than the EU average. I think that if it is possible to manufacture batteries in Germany in compliance with all strict environmental rules, this is also possible in Hungary. I repeat, let us look at the EU rules on vehicle manufacturing, and in view of this, let us consider whether it is appropriate for Hungary to participate in this process or not. As regards the investment of other foreign companies, I agree with the quote mentioned by Mrs Dóra Dúró, Professor Csath Magdolna. I would also ask you to look at this in specific cases of support; not all companies wishing to invest in Hungary are supported by the budget, but those where there is typically no Hungarian competitor, and where the foreign-owned company's investment here increases Hungarian added value, domestic supply chains. The proposal for a budget law before you therefore shows in a selective way the resources intended to support the investment of basically foreign-owned companies, as well as the resources intended to support domestic-owned, predominantly SMEs. The difference between GDP and GNI is a meaningful indicator in this respect. Indeed, GDP is used many times, as it is the standard indicator in the world. The European Union uses this indicator primarily in terms of economic development in statistics, but GNI, gross national income, is also an important indicator. Therefore, in the draft budget law before you, we also place emphasis on the investment strategy, foreign investments of domestic companies and the expected increase in domestic income. I think that in the longer term, the goal should be that the difference between GDP and GNI can be reduced. I hope that this year's budget law will make good use of its resources. As far as inflation is concerned, I've said a lot about your background. I also said that pensions, no matter how inflation develops, should be kept at the very least in terms of real value this year. This does not, of course, affect the payment of the 13th month pension, as the additional payment has already been made in the previous month. So, overall, we will be able to ensure a 20% increase in the real value of pensions, which we have seen since 2010 until 2023, also this year. There is no doubt that inflation means not only extra expenditure for the budget, see pensions, see interest rate services, but also additional revenue. This is Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, who said that the revenue associated with inflation is extremely high. There has also been such criticism that the government is looking to death for greater inflation, and these extra income should be devoted to families. I will report to the Honourable Parliament that this is the way the government acts. If we look at the original budget of 2023, we can really expect more than HUF 800 billion in revenue thanks to higher inflation. At the same time, if you only look at the Rezségvédelmi Fund, the extra taxes amount to HUF 1400 billion and the central budget transfer is HUF 1200 billion. So, this year, the central budget will invest more resources than the surplus of VAT revenue in the Rezségvédelmi Fund in itself, and it will invest 1.5 times more resources in the Rezségvédelmi Fund. Education, health, if I may say, is always a hit in the debate on the budget. In both areas, we can say that, if we look at expenditure developments in a distance, the aggregate increase in expenditure in both areas is above inflation from 2010. Of course, there is no area where there is no need, no need for further increase in resources, but I repeat, in both areas there is a long-term increase in inflation and, in particular, in terms of wages, a 10% increase in the wages of teachers has already been achieved, and we expect that if we close open issues with the European Commission, a major increase in wages can be achieved and that, not only this year, but by 2025, a continuous, significant increase in wages will be calculated. And as far as health is concerned, the amendment before you will increase health costs. In addition to the medical wage increase already taken into account, the wages of nurses and other health workers may rise from July 2023. With regard to health, I must agree with Mrs Dóra Dúró on the fact that our health situation is a much more complex issue than we can see through the development of a narrow amount of health expenditure. The change of lifestyle is particularly important. I think the aim of everyday physical education or the system of corporate tax relief for young people's sports or the change in public health product tax is precisely to change our way of life. So, basically, we are not able to correct our health by increasing expenditure in the health sector. This is also an important item, this is also an important part, but I agree that basically we should focus on changing lifestyles. What I can tell you, Madam Vice-President and the Honourable Parliament, is that the programmes that financed the lifestyle change will continue to be included in the 2023 budget. [[12.50]] Finally, let me respond to one of the criticisms of the whole economic policy, the choice of values, the work and the centralisation of families. Many have said that the government is pursuing neoliberal economic policy, that the burden of the crisis is being paid by the people, I repeat, inflation makes the government richer, people poorer, and many have said that this economic policy is not moving us forward. I think that the amendment of this year's budget law before you shows that this economic policy cannot be described by the neoliberal label, this economic policy puts families and the preservation of jobs in the centre. This economic policy, by increasing support for families, preserving jobs or financing additional expenditure due to increasing energy prices in the Trust Fund, is precisely intended to support families, whether through the Trust Fund or through low employment taxes, and to shift the burden to those who can benefit from the crisis, sectors where, due to the crisis, additional revenues are also reflected in the increase in energy prices and inflation. I hope that with this economic policy, we will be able to follow this year's values that have characterised the government since 2010: we can maintain a level of economic growth that can be above the EU average, our economic convergence can continue this year, coupled with a disciplined management, a reduction in deficit levels and a further reduction in the debt ratio. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-01-46	I thank the Secretary of State for his answers. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, It follows a joint general debate on the draft law on the publication of the Protocol on the accession of the Republic of Finland to the North Atlantic Treaty and on the draft law on the publication of the Protocol on the accession of the Kingdom of Sweden to the North Atlantic Treaty until closure. Government referrals T/637. and T/638. available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Sztáray, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2023-03-01-47	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Dear House, The purpose of this bill is to ratify and publish the Protocol on the accession of the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden to the North Atlantic Treaty. Let me take a brief look at the most important stages of the accession process so far. On 29 July 2022, on the basis of a decision taken by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, NATO, at the Madrid summit of its Heads of State and Government, it invited Finland and Sweden to open negotiations on accession to the North Atlantic Treaty. The basic starting point for inviting and joining the two countries is that, in accordance with Article 10 of the North Atlantic Treaty, the door to NATO membership remains open to European countries that are ready and able to assume the obligations and other commitments of membership. Any decision on membership will be made between the thirty allies and the applicant countries. Following the successful conclusion of accession negotiations, the current States Parties to NATO have drawn up two separate accession protocols for Finland and Sweden, in accordance with the practice and procedure established in the Alliance, which include a consensus decision by the current Member States on the invitation of the countries. On 5 July 2022, the Member States of the North Atlantic Council signed the Protocols on the accession of the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden to the Treaty, which allowed the process of ratification of the Protocols to begin in NATO Member States. Following the ratification of the Protocol of Accession by all the current Member States, the NATO Secretary-General invites the candidate State to join the North Atlantic Treaty in the form of a letter. The instrument of ratification of the Protocol or other required document under its own Constitution and internal legal order of the new Member State shall then be deposited with the Government of the depositary State, i.e. the United States of America. In this way, the invited State, Finland and Sweden, in this case, will become full members of NATO. Dear House, Undoubtedly, February 24, 2022 and subsequent events represent a watershed for Euroatlantic security and have a significant long-term impact not only on the regional but also on the international security architecture, transatlantic relations have been strengthened, NATO and collective protection have been once again promoted. This changed strategic environment is reflected in the NATO strategic concept adopted in 2022, which states that Russia is the number one and most direct threat to the security of the alliance. As a result of the Russian behaviour since 2014, the NATO membership of Finland and Sweden has come up as a possible option to guarantee their security, and the Ukrainian war has led to a further recovery of the internal political discourse in the two partner countries on possible NATO accession. The Swedish and Finnish governments have imposed a security policy and foreign policy review in which they stressed that the war in Ukraine threatens the security of Europe as a whole and the stability of the continent, thus reflecting the strategic concept. This led to the decision to apply for membership of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation by giving up the status of non-Allied Finland and Sweden. According to the Hungarian Government's assessment, the expansion of NATO with the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden is a significant step towards increasing the security of the Euroatlantic region, which is of particular importance in the context of security challenges and threats affecting the Euroatlantic region as a whole in the context of the Russian-Ukrainian war. Countries wishing to join, in all respects, to meet the requirements of NATO accession, have strong armed forces capable of cooperating with the armies of NATO Member States and share the democratic values of NATO Member States. Finland and Sweden have maintained a close partnership with NATO since 1995, in a number of bilateral and multilateral cooperations, including the, with a partnership for peace, and have made a significant contribution and contribute to the success of NATO-led peace support operations. The realisation of the NATO membership of Finland and Sweden serves our country's foreign policy, security policy and external economic interests, but it also strengthens NATO, as the alliance will expand with new Member States, which can contribute to strengthening international peace and security and increase the alliance's ability to do so. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Dear House, It is a fact that Finland and Sweden often get criticism from our country that is unfounded and unfair. In view of this, we support the initiative of the President of the Parliament to consult Parliament in the two candidate countries. At the same time, the security of the Euro-Atlantic region and of Hungary, the creation and maintenance of peace, must be of primary interest to slander and grievances. Decisions of this magnitude should not be conducted by emotions, but by reason. In view of this, I ask this House to adopt the proposed legislation and to support Finland and Sweden's early accession to NATO. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.00]]
u2023-03-01-48	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. We'll get back to work. Mr Zsolt Németh, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, indicated that he could only arrive late because of his official duties. This House's leadership now gives the floor to the KDNP Group in the first place of the keynote speeches, which, in turn, indicated that the two speakers of their group would present the group's position. First, I give the floor to Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. Here you go.
u2023-03-01-49	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Europe's security situation has changed over the last year, the aggressor Russia has attacked Ukraine, and so much has changed, as we thought and think now that it is the 21st. In the century, the only possible way to settle disputes is to negotiate, diplomacy and never war. That is why we support peace, which is why we support the immediate ceasefire, which is why we support the early start of peace negotiations, because every minute that is wasted, every minute when there is no ceasefire, it can cost new lives, and the most important thing is saving lives. Of course, the Russian attack on Ukraine, which took place a year ago, changed the security situation and the security environment in Europe. I think there's a lot to reevaluate, redesign. This was also part of the NATO summit in Madrid and NATO's parliamentary assembly in Madrid last year. Hungary has been a member of the North Atlantic Alliance since 1999 and we are good allies. We are a good Member State, who will do their part, Hungarian soldiers are spoken of in the highest recognition by NATO commanders and leaders in various NATO missions, including the American allies. In the autumn, I had the honour of visiting the Hungarian contingent in Kosovo, serving in the NATO mission in Kosovo, and starting with the Italian commander, I heard from everyone through the US soldiers that the Hungarian soldiers were performing an incredibly high level of service in the joint peacekeeping mission. The Parliament has also repeatedly confirmed its position on this in recent years. For this reason, it is important that a serious development of forces has been launched in the past period. When the destruction of Gyurcsány-Vadai took place in the Hungarian Army, the Hungarian Defence Office became in a state that was not worthy of our country. Therefore, it is a pleasure that the Zrínyi military development programme has started. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: What a pleasure!]] Therefore, it is a pleasure that the Hungarian Defence Forces will be enriched and expanded with technologies that enable the Hungarian Defence Forces to guarantee the peace and security of our country at an ever higher level every year. Peace and security are the most important. It is therefore important that NATO is a defence alliance, a defence alliance, and not a war alliance, NATO is established and operates today to guarantee and try to guarantee the freedom and security of the Member States. That is why we support NATO, which is why we are members of NATO, which is why we remain members of NATO, which is why we contribute to NATO's success in every possible way. That is why we are achieving, unlike many other Member States that are richer than us, this year the 2% GDP contribution, which is NATO's expectation. Many European countries, which are much richer than us, will not achieve the 2% contribution of GDP, while we will be able to do so this year. NATO is therefore important, we are interested in maintaining NATO, we are interested in strengthening NATO, and we are also interested in expanding NATO. However, I must tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that the question of accession to Sweden and Finland has divided our political alliance, and there are debates and there are grievances. I agree with Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, who asked the group to support the ratification of Finland and Sweden. The KDNP fraction also supports the ratification of Finland and Sweden, but let us look at who is asking us to help them and to ratify the protocol. We are asked to help and support them, who have accused us many times, completely wrongfully and unjustly in recent years, and many times in a matter that is a Hungarian political affair, has nothing to do with other governments and international organisations on which we have been criticised by either Swedish or Finnish politicians. There have been reports from existing ministers that the Hungarian family protection action plan quotes Germany in the 1930s. Ministers in office, Members of the European Parliament or Members of Parliament have been told that they believe that Hungary should not be given a penny of EU funding, that Hungarian people do not deserve EU funds, honourable Members. The fact is that, with all due respect, we must reject these allegations, and we must reject these political accusations, because that is not the case. If people think that we are considered unjust, unjust and without any consequences to be vile or even disgusting governance, interfering with the internal affairs of another country, they believe that they can, for example, classify the decisions of the Hungarian Parliament in this way, then we should ask ourselves whether this is the case. I believe that European policy and NATO should also operate and be based on mutual respect dialogue. We expect mutual respect. We give everyone mutual respect and we expect the same from these countries. We're allies, we're good allies, but we think we need to give and get the respect we can expect. In this spirit, we are debating here today, in this spirit we say that strengthening NATO in the current security situation is a good goal, in view of which we say that improving NATO capabilities and continuing development of forces are an important goal and must be implemented, not only by us, but also by others, together. Existing political debates should therefore be clarified. I hope that, after Parliament's decision in a few weeks' time, we can base the political cooperation of the coming years on mutual respect dialogue with both the Swedes and the Finns. I think there's a need for this, and it's important. We ask these countries that, as they ask for our support on this issue, and as we would like to give their support on this issue, they also give the Hungarians the respect they deserve. Some Swedish politicians in April last year began to insist that the outcome of the election was worrying them and that their outcome was questionable, but if we went through this logical chain, then they would obviously think that Parliament's legitimacy would also be questionable, so Parliament's decisions could also be called into question, in which we wish to take the ratification approval. That is why I say that sometimes it is not worth going to the waters from which there is no going back, and it is worth cultivating these relationships. I think that we rightly asked the Speaker to send a delegation of Parliament to Sweden and Finland, because the existing political debates need to be clarified. I think it is right that this delegation journey does not affect the date of the vote, does not affect the final vote on the current ratification, but it is important to clarify the political debates. Hungary is on NATO's side, NATO and the Hungarian Defence Service guarantee the security of Hungary and the Hungarian people, the two are just cooperating, one is not good without the other, and we need NATO, which is why we are giving our contribution to NATO in all kinds of missions, which is why we achieve a 2% GDP contribution, which is why we are good allies to NATO Member States. What we are asking in this debate is also the two future Member States, because we are in favour of NATO and we support NATO to give that mutual respect, the expected, fundamental mutual respect that can be expected in politics and human relations, which, I think, will also make everyday political and, of course, economic and military cooperation easier and more normal. [[13.10]] Ladies and gentlemen, In military cooperation, I believe that there is no room for brutal ideological pressure, such naughty, vile political attacks that we have witnessed in recent years, either by the Republic of Finland or by the Kingdom of Sweden. On the part of the KDNP faction, I can say that we support the NATO membership of Sweden and Finland, we also support the resolution of existing political debates, and we also support the fact that from now on, after the future decision of the Hungarian Parliament, we will place cooperation between our countries on this new basis, for mutual dialogue, for mutual respect, not for education from Northern Europe, for ideological and political pressure. This is our position, ladies and gentlemen, and I ask you to support ratification, to discuss this very important issue, because NATO guarantees the security of Europe, NATO guarantees the security of Hungary and the Hungarian people together with the Hungarian Defence. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-01-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am now speaking to Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, who will continue to describe the position of the KDNP fraction. Here you go.
u2023-03-01-51	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Our country has been a committed member of NATO since 1999, which we have been able to prove many times over the period since then. The results of the referendum that took place before our membership supported this commitment, when 85 percent voted in favour of NATO membership in the referendum. The security of the Western Balkans region has always been a priority for Hungary, and in light of this, it is not surprising that we have been successfully involved, for example, in the Kosovo KFOR international mission. But we have also undertaken to strengthen the east wing of NATO, in which we are also successful. Of the four new battle groups created here, Hungary was the first to achieve its full operational capability. We are also one of the well-performing allies in the case of our 2014 commitments, as instead of 2024 we can reach the 2 percent level of GDP in our defence expenditures this year. It is sad that, despite all this, many people are questioning our commitment to NATO, claiming that we are not transporting weapons to the Ukrainian party during the Russian-Ukrainian war, and that Hungary wants to stay out of the war. Ladies and gentlemen, We're fighting for peace, and we're doing everything we can. In our view, NATO is not a war, but a defense alliance. Our position rests on that. It is of particular importance that NATO do its best to avoid escalation, because as a neighbouring country, together with Finland wishing to join, we see the devastation caused by war at close range. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary has always been one of the enlargement countries not only for the European Union but also for NATO. In addition, these two countries are committed partners of NATO, for example, they have been involved in the peace partnership programmes of the Alliance for almost two decades, and have played an active role in NATO-led past and present peace support operations. However, it is also important to mention that we are currently talking about the accession of countries that have been speaking against our country for years, including in the European Parliament. They questioned our democracy, the freedom of the Hungarian media, the independence of our justice system and are actively trying to prevent our access to EU funds. [[Noise in opposition benches.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I belong to the generation that has learned diplomacy from János Martonyi and President Zsolt Németh, and I am convinced that style is man, so I would like to quote the Finnish and Swedish Members who have found unfounded criticisms of our country. For example, on the day the two countries submitted their official application for accession on 18 May 2022, the Swedish Green Party representative Alice Kuhnke accused Hungary of restricting freedoms. Also last year, Swedish liberal representative Abir Al-Sahrani declared the Orbán government corrupt and authoritarian in the European Parliament [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] and expressed joy at the Commission's launch of the rule of law mechanism against us. This month, the Finnish Social Democratic politician Eero Heiniluoma also appreciated the Commission's decision to propose to the Council the suspension of the transfer of EU funds to Hungary. I think it is important that these unfounded criticisms be heard in the Hungarian Parliament, and the Hungarian people also hear how important it is, however, that we stand in favour of the defence alliance. In November, Swedish left-wing MEP Malin Björk called for the blocking of the payment of EU aid to our country, after he said in September that everything called democracy and the rule of law is being trampled on in Hungary. It was not a new attitude to speak against our country either, when it said: "The Hungarian and Polish racist governments will oppose everything that is not about building walls for people who are fleeing. Well, we see how EU policy is changing, and as a result, the Commission is already supporting fence construction. But let us remember, for example, the Finnish MEP Petri Sarvamaa, who also welcomed the Commission's decision to freeze EU funds for Hungary. And let us not forget Jessika Roswall, the Minister for European Affairs of Sweden currently holding the Presidency of the EU, who declared in the European Parliament on 15 February 2023 that they would continue the procedure under Article 7 against Hungary in the Council. But not only in the European Parliament, during the previous period of the Social Democratic Government, the Swedish Ministry of Foreign Affairs's country report on democracy, human rights and the rule of law detailing its criticisms on democracy, human rights, the rule of law, political institutions and processes, and the functioning of civil society organisations through 23 pages. This report is mostly a scissoring of the assessment of other critical organisations; we are not surprised to know who it is. [[Szabó Timea: Who are we talking about?]] I think you, my fellow Member, know better. On the part of Finland, criticisms are frivolous because there is no constitutional court in their country. [[Szabó Timea: It's ours!]] However, the Hungarian rule of law is discussed in a very broad manner, since the tasks originally assigned to this body are carried out by the Constitutional Committee of Parliament in Finland through ex ante and ex post standard control. This is why Tytti Tuppurainen, Minister for EU Affairs and Public Corporate Governance, said in December last year, his criticism of our country:, The Commission called on Hungary to take action to strengthen the rule of law and to eradicate corruption. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, There is no doubt that it is also a major factor in the development of these positions that today, in European politics, it has become fashionable to strive for political popularity in such a way that our country is bullied by the complete lack of real Hungarian knowledge. However, in my opinion, these political debates require political dialogue and negotiation. With the help of parliamentary diplomacy and negotiations, we must be able to rise above the actual Hungarian positions in order to find a common position in support of the accession of the two countries, which we naturally support. The main condition for accession is that the European State is able to further develop the principles of the Treaty and contribute to the security of the North Atlantic. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, politics is not an art of subtlety, but in international diplomacy, if we slap, we should not ask, and if we are to ask, then let us be so wise that we do not slap it first. I believe that Finland, when it teaches us about the rule of law without the Constitutional Court, and Sweden criticises our migration policy by being in one of the worst situations for its security in the European Union, and it has made public security a challenge for Europe as a whole with its immigration policy, we need to think about how important it is when a government, a country, can rise above these criticisms and prioritises the importance of the defence alliance and, of course, we will support its commitment to NATO. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.20]]
u2023-03-01-52	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the DK Group is Ms Ágnes Vadai, who is speaking here from the pulpit of the platform. I'll wait for you to wake up, Congresswoman. [[It's happening.]] You have the floor, please.
u2023-03-01-53	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, The moment has finally come: T/637. and T/638. Dear fellow citizens, Dear friends of Finn and Swede! After the collapse of Yugoslavia and the unimaginable pain caused there, no one believed that there would be a politician in Europe or in its neighbourhood who would attack another country, using a weapon, crossing lives and fates, causing millions of people pain. On 24 February 2022, however, the unthinkable occurred. A permanent member of the UN Security Council, Russia and its political leader have decided to discard the UN principles, all the points of the Helsinki Final Act, the Budapest Agreement and the Geneva Conventions, and then launch a total, illegal and murderous war against the people of Ukraine. This decision brought suffering and destruction beyond all imagination. A multitude of civilian victims, raped women and children, millions of refugees, destroyed built and natural environments. Bucsa's name and what happened there will never be forgotten by the world, because it has become an unfortunate symbol of a morally failed dictator without legal and rule of law who does not spare his Ukrainian neighbours, but who is willing to sacrifice his own people in order to achieve a fever. We hope the war will end as soon as possible. However, the free world cannot go without saying what Russia's political leaders have done. Because it is not only the responsibility of the free world to help Ukraine and its people against Russian aggression, but it will also be our responsibility to bring the victims to justice. And for that to happen, we need a brave and peacock-free policy. I'm telling all those who want to get away with it, lying low, sneaking away. [[Robert Szigó: Don't threaten me!]] Dear House, In 1956 Hungary faced two things: the brutality of Soviet military and political machinery, and what it is like to be alone. In October 56, a people rebelled against the Soviet occupation, fought heroically, but the no-vember came when the Soviet troops moved against Hungary. Without ally's help against the outnumber, the Hungarian revolution and real freedom struggle were defeated. One of the great lessons of 1956: if you don't have real friends and allies, your freedom fights, however much your hero is, will be defeated. For a moment in 1956, the Hungarians' dream of free European Hungary vanished. However, the 1989 changes opened the way for us to freely choose the fate of the country. In 1999, we decided correctly that we Hungarians should be in NATO, the most powerful defence alliance in the world. Our national security strategy is based on NATO membership, even if today pro-government politicians are attacking the alliance through their propaganda friends. Even if the country's political and military leaders have launched the peacock dance operation in addition to our membership of the European Union in connection with our NATO membership. It is possible and necessary to argue, it is possible and necessary to enforce Hungarian interests within NATO, but it is not possible to relativity the country's membership of NATO, de- NATO the Hungarian defence and constantly manipulate the Hungarian public with ambiguous, anti- NATO messages. Without NATO's guaranteed collective protection, Hungary is not free, because the current Russian aggression also shows that there are people abroad who want to see our country outside NATO; subjugated as part of their own sphere of interest. It is regrettable that there are now some in this House, both in opposition and in government, for whom NATO has become a curse word. The safety of the country is a priority. This is guaranteed by the Hungarian Defence Office, our citizens' patriot commitment and NATO membership. Any one of these three elements is missing, our security guarantee system is failing. Anyone who attacks our NATO membership in any way will attack the country. Dear House, Russia's illegal and in all respects condemned aggression against Ukraine has fundamentally changed the security structure of the European continent. After several generations of neutrality, two European countries, the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden, decided to join NATO, the world's strongest defence alliance, just after illegal Russian aggression. In May 2022, two of our allies in the North submitted an application for accession. The free world welcomed the move and at the historic NATO summit in Madrid at the end of June 2022, NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg announced that all NATO countries support the inclusion of these two countries in NATO. Following the summit, the ratification procedure of the Member States was launched, on 27 September 2022 Slovakia ratified the accession of the two countries as 28th. It was clear from the outset that Turkey would request guarantees from the two acceding States, which were set out in the so-called Madrid MOU. However, Mr Stoltenberg just recently stated that he felt that Finland and Sweden had complied with the requests made by Ankara. The three countries will sit at the negotiating table in Brussels next week, and we hope that a reassuring solution will be reached. The Government of Hungary also supported the inclusion of the two countries in NATO. We didn't impose any conditions. We wouldn't have had a reason. These two countries are our allies in the European Union. We know them well. However, we have not only been working together on European issues for a long time, but also on defence issues. In 2001 the Orbán government decided to buy Gripen-type fighters from Sweden. In February 2020, Tibor Benkő, former Minister of Defence, told us that Sweden is an important partner of our country's military development. We profited a lot, he said, in addition to the Gripens, from the acquisition of the Carl Gustaf M4 multi-purpose armor-piercing weapons system and the mobile maintenance hangars manufactured by Saab. At the time, he considered it an important element to train helicopter instructors in extreme circumstances and to maintain the ability to recharge air. Finland also has a special relationship with us in relation to our linguistic kinship. The maintenance of Finno-Ugric relations is strong despite all other whimsical government attempts. Within the Interparlamental Union, which brings together the world's parliaments, Finnish-Ugric cooperation is of paramount importance, since, at least twice a year, we always meet representatives of the Finno-Ugric peoples at the general meetings. But we also strengthened the defence area with Finland. On 23 September 2008, a multi-ethnic strategic air transport capability was established for long-range freight carriers C-17. In addition to ten NATO countries, Finland and Sweden are part of the programme. In 2017, the European Centre for Excellence against Hybrid Threats was set up in Helsinki on a joint NATO-EU initiative, to which Hungary joined in 2019. So we know the two countries. We work together in countless areas, including the defence area. We are aware of their military capabilities, and we know precisely that Finland and Sweden's accession to NATO will strengthen our alliance and increase Hungary's security. On 14 July 2022, the government correctly, without delay, presented T/637 to the hearing. and 638 on ratification of the accession of the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden to NATO. Today is March 1st, 2023. It could have been a quick and simple case in the Hungarian Parliament. But he didn't. It didn't, because on the pro-government side, there was always an excuse or a stalling tactic. [[13.30]] At first, they said that the Parliament was busy, because laws need to be amended for EU funds. This is how LXVI 2021 took place on 12 July 2022. a general debate between the Government of Hungary and the UNEP Secretariat of the Agreement on the Protection of Migratory Waterbirds of Africa-Eurasian Migratory Birds, on behalf of the United Nations, on the draft law on the 8th Meeting of the Parties to the Agreement on the Protection of Migratory Birds of Africa-Eurasian Migratory Birds; and thus, in the midst of their great occupation, a general debate took place, for example, on 4 October 2020 on the draft law between Hungary and the Principality of Andorra on the prevention of double taxation in the field of income taxes and the publication of the Convention on the prevention of tax evasion and avoidance. However, there was no ratification of the accession of the two countries to NATO during this period. Secondly, they took an unusually long parliamentary break. The Parliament quite surprisingly finished its plenary work in the first week of December 2022, and we did not even start the work until the end of February. I understand that you needed rest, but we usually meet until mid-December, and in mid-February we begin to reconvene. During the time you rested, because we don't have much to do anyway, because the Prime Minister will take care of everything for you, as far as legislation is concerned, they put together the budget, and you didn't have much to do with it, so, during that time, we could have ratified the accession applications. The third is social consultation. There has never been such a type of social consultation in cases of this type. While they did not feel the need for social consultation on health, education and defence personnel issues, suddenly, when the delay was awkward, they came up with the idea of having a social consultation on these two matters, and we learned all this at the House Committee meeting, where the representative of the government asked me a question that this was another trick to postpone. And then there's a debate in the pro-government faction, Parliamentary delegation. The pro-government group and this has also been said to argue with the Prime Minister about the accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO. Excuse me, fellow Members, that is a rather shallow justification, even for you. You even ask Orbán for permission to ask questions, let alone argue with him. We see the division of labor at Fidesz. Novak and Orbán are the good peacock dancers, let the ratification be done at last; the bad peacock dancers, ugly Finnish and Swedish politicians criticized the Hungarian government and now ask for a favor. In the latter case, we will obviously listen to the less familiar colleagues in Fidesz security policy, but we have already heard the rapporteur's comments on this. Let me get this straight. Finland and Sweden are not asking for favors. As a result of Russian aggression, they give up their neutral position for decades, join the world's strongest defence alliance, and thus strengthen the strong cooperation between the North Atlantic region and the so-called like-all-minded countries, such as Japan, Australia, South Korea, New Zealand. The east wing of NATO will be stronger. It serves our country's national interests. I don't think you understand. And the fact that the Finnish and Swedish politicians are asking you to respect democratic principles and the conditions of the rule of law is embarrassing for you because your illiberal, or authoritarian, governance is the reason why our country is now constantly being humiliated. Dear House, According to press reports, a parliamentary delegation is going to Sweden and Finland with the participation of Csaba Hende and Zsolt Németh, at least that's what we heard. I'd like to ask you why. If you want to talk to Swedish and Finnish colleagues, you can do this in a number of places: the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly, the European Union, and imagine it at home. You can talk to the representatives of the two countries at home as well. It's just another stall, another talk of power. Because of the rewriting of the electoral system, there are two thirds of you that half of the country does not support you. Please remember, you don't have two thirds outside the border. They can play the constantly problematic daredevils in the EU and NATO, but the result was only that they undermined Hungary's credibility and allied loyalty in NATO. They forgot the genre of normal dialogue, negotiated dialogue, and Hungary is the sufferer of this. But what is the reason why they have been playing for such a delay, and by now they have come up with such a rather childish reason for delaying the ratification of the accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO? Many claim that Russia, to be exact, is doing Putin a favor. Mr.Orbán is considered to be a Trojan horse and exit man of Putin in Europe and Hungary as well. Others believe that they are helping Erdoğan in his own ratification process in Turkey, so that he has a reason for delaying it. And, of course, there is also a third theory, the so-called ransom policy, and as much as they claim otherwise, we can see that they are obviously trying to link this issue to EU money, because they do not want to fulfil the conditions that would make Hungary a democratic state of law again. Ladies and gentlemen, The shadow government of the Democratic Coalition and Klára Dobrev supported the ratification process in every forum and possible way. We have used the agenda supplement, the initiative of an exceptional procedure, and we have constantly explained to the public at home and abroad that Hungary supports the accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO, and it is the Hungarian government that is reluctant to do so. We welcome Finland and Sweden in the strongest defence alliance in the world, and we hope that the Hungarian Parliament will finally vote in favour of ratification of the accession of these two countries to NATO. This is in the interests of NATO, this is in the interests of Finland and Sweden, and most importantly, this is in the interests of Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the lines of MSZP and Dialogue.]]
u2023-03-01-54	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Zsolt Németh, who will also speak here, on the platform, in the pulpit. We'll wait for Congressman to beam up to the stand. [[It's happening.]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-03-01-55	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, My fellow Members and all those interested in following this debate, I would like to briefly address four issues. First of all, the new security situation under which we are in the midst of; then NATO, NATO's reaction, importance; then the issue of enlargement; and finally, I would like to say a few words, if I may, about bilateral relations. In the context of the new security situation, it should be pointed out that there has been a fundamental turnaround in the security situation of Europe and the world on 24 February 2022, as war broke out in Europe. The horror stories of our grandparents are living in front of us every day. NATO will be enlarged at a time of unprecedented tension and instability and under its circumstances. There has never been such an enlargement situation in NATO history. February 24, 2022, Russian aggression reminds us Hungarians of the 1956 revolution, but it reminds all of Eastern Europe of the aggressive Russian communist manifestations that followed communism, including 1968, 1980, the Cold War rhetoric in the communist camp. It reminds us of the Brezhnev Doctrine, the Brezhnev Doctrine, which ultimately crushed the freedom efforts of Central and Eastern Europe. [[13.40]] And we are now witnessing not only in relation to Ukraine, but also in relation to Moldova and Georgia, the attempt to re-apply this Brezhnev Doctrine, the Imperial Principle. On 24 February 2023, this Friday, on the one-year anniversary, the UN General Assembly took the issue of Russian aggression on the agenda for the third time, and there was also a vote: with 141 Member States voting in favour, with 7 non-votes and 32 abstentions, it condemned Russian aggression with the support of Hungary, of course, on this occasion, and called on Russia to stop aggression, to withdraw Russian troops and to open negotiations to ease peace and tension. And during this period, over the past year, it has been very spectacular not only here in Central Europe, but also in the whole world, solidarity with Ukraine, solidarity with the victim; and so it has happened and so it is happening in Hungary, because Ukraine is also our neighbour. We consider the right of self-defense to be indisputable, and Hungary is constantly seeking the most effective form of support to help our neighbour in this dramatic situation. In recent days, world politics has seen the launch of a new phenomenon of publicising peace plans. China had a 12-point peace plan, but the Vatican also considered it important to formulate its own peace plan. I believe that this is already a very good news in itself, and that is why we welcome the birth of these peace plans from Hungary, although we can see that there are very important contradictions and differences in emphasis among these peace plans, but together with the fact that international diplomacy is beginning to negotiate peace plans, a very important development. At the same time, we can see that the war on the front is not easing. In fact, there are indications that the armed conflict is moving towards further escalation. Globally, we can see that the effects of this Russian-Ukrainian war are extremely disastrous, as there are two- and multilateral armed conflicts that would not have taken place if this brutal war had not taken place. For example, think of the extent to which the conflict in the Middle East or the Azerbaijani conflict has recently intensified. It is not possible to separate the Russian-Ukrainian war from violence, the strengthening of the cult of violence throughout the international scene. Hungary's response to this new security situation is twofold. First of all, Hungary has started to develop a very serious force, otherwise in harmony with our European allies. In February of last year, Germany announced this very important change, and in the case of Poland, we also have a very strong development of forces, and in the case of Hungary, this is a very clear response to this new security situation; and Hungary's other response is the launch of a clear pro-peace diplomacy. What does Hungary's pro-peace diploma mean, and what does not Hungary's pro-peace diploma mean? First of all, it does not mean that this pro-peace diplomacy is to support Putin. At the same time, the negligee of Russia's security needs should be included in the root causes of the war, and it should also be noted that taking into account Russia's security needs will be essential for a lasting settlement. But it doesn't mean that pro-peace diplomacy is a hit-and-run for Ukraine either. After all, we have been committed to supporting Ukraine's most important demand, guaranteeing Ukraine's territorial integrity and sovereignty from the beginning, from the very first moment, despite all the other rumors. A European Ukraine, capable of preserving its democratic, sovereign and territorial integrity, is an elementary Hungarian interest. However, the Hungarian peace diplomacy means the realization that killing must be stopped, that hundreds of thousands of others must be tried to avoid dying, so that what we experience every day is not to continue when they do their lives in mass graves, or they actually do their lives in mobile crematoriums, thousands and thousands on the Ukrainian front. (In the notary seat, Sándor Berki Replaced by Dr. Ágnes Vadai.) In order to avoid these phenomena, we are calling for a diplomatic solution, and we also see an opportunity to find a diplomatic solution, despite the opposite starting points, as the peace plans also see a solution to the conclusion of the compromise, and I would add that we consider it highly timely to arrive at the diplomatic stage to settle the situation, so that the diplomats can take over from the generals to deal with the situation. To this end, in the light of the assessment of this new security situation and of Hungary's response, we have presented to the Hungarian Parliament the parliamentary resolution that can now be read by all my fellow Members. Secondly, allow me a few thoughts about NATO. NATO is a unique success story: From 1949 onwards, through the accession of Hungary and the countries of Central Europe in 1999, the key to tackling the new security situation in the light of the last year, 2022, is, I believe, NATO, with what it is doing and what it is not doing. Indeed, NATO is an organisation on the ground of collective protection, the main task of which is to deter or protect NATO members. At the same time, let us state that NATO has not faced such a hot situation in its 74-year history, and it is facing the greatest challenge in this 74-year story that it is now facing. And although NATO is not a party to the war, it is also a lion's share in maintaining the federal unit, fighting Russia, supporting Ukraine and fine-tuning the various sanction regimes in the European Union. Let me draw your attention to the decisions of the Madrid Summit. Last June's summit decisions marked a whole new level of deterrence for NATO Member States, to which Hungary was very firmly and briefly adapted, and the policy of open doors was another very important element of the decision, since Sweden and Finland were invited in Madrid. NATO is therefore also the most important factor in the current security situation and the creation of peace. Russia, thanks to this NATO mandate and self-restraint, I believe that it will no longer be a threat to NATO, a threat to NATO Member States, and I would also consider it very important that the European Union's enlargement policy also follows NATO's open door policy. NATO has apparently been able to find an adequate response to this situation, and the European Union is currently delaying to respond adequately with its enlargement policy to the current changed security situation. [[13.50]] The forthcoming Vilnius Summit, which will take place this summer, is expected to be the summit of a 32-member organisation with full participation of Sweden and Finland. And then a few words about enlargement. As I mentioned, one of the most important decisions of the Madrid Summit is the invitation of these two countries. Therefore, the response to instability in the new security situation was strengthened by the force and the involvement of new members on the part of NATO. Hungary's support for the inclusion of these two countries is solid from the very first moment in Madrid, as when the government submitted the ratification documents to the Parliament last summer, but also when Viktor Orbán stressed at the V4 summit in December that the ratification process would begin in the first spring session; and here we are now taking part. Why do we support enlargement? NATO will be stronger with two world-class forces. Secondly, the request of two friendly nations came to the NATO headquarters after decades of consideration. Thirdly, because we are opposed to one of the main objectives of starting a war: Putin's efforts to prevent NATO expansion. I could also say that President Putin has proven to be the most successful lobbyist in NATO by deciding to join the organisation as a result of aggression. [[Szabó Timea: That's right!]] Briefly on bilateral relations. Parliamentary dialogue will be aimed at visits to the Swedish and Finnish parliaments to the capital, led by Vice-President Csaba Hende. Hungary does not confuse NATO enlargement with bilateral relations [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: What are you doing?]] On our part, the support of the two countries is not an ally's obligation, but an ally's obligation. At the same time, bilateral relations exist, and bilateral relations are part of the visit to each other's parliaments and to each other's countries, as our nations' relations with these two nations look back over a thousand years, characterised by waves and upslides, but we do not forget language relations, we do not forget the Reformation, the Rákóczi Freedom Fight or the process of EU-NATO accession, or decisions such as the purchase of Gripen machines. However, we consider this ratification to be an excellent opportunity, if you will, by the way, to talk to our partners, to look each other in the eye, to clear up misunderstandings, accusations, lies. I believe that the most important objective of these visits is that Hungary should aim for a new quality of ally relations with Sweden and Finland, and we trust that this new quality of ally relationship can be put in the service of friendship and mutual respect between our nations within the framework of NATO, which is why I consider these visits to be important, and I am also happy to participate in it, thanks to the request. Thank you very much for your attention. I hope that we can meet our Swedish and Finnish friends at the Vilnius Summit within the framework of the 32-member organization. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-03-01-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Tamás Harangozó, who is speaking about his place. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-03-01-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, My position is clear: in the current situation, the accession of Sweden and Finland to NATO is justified. I think that if we were to write July 2022, this speech could be concluded here, although I agree with him not from me, but from President Katalin Novák, who made this statement today. But since it is March 2023, ladies and gentlemen, let us look at how we have come to this point precisely, that we must start this general debate now, since Finland and Sweden submitted their official request for NATO accession on 18 May 2022. The minutes were already signed at the North Atlantic Council meeting on 5 July 2022. By the way, the Hungarian Government already submitted the two proposals on 14 July 2022, and since then it has been on the table of Parliament, and if anyone wanted to read it, practically any Member has been able to read this proposal since 14 July 2022, only to argue and vote on it. (László Földi in the notary seat) Replaced by Béla Mihalffy.) It is also interesting, ladies and gentlemen, because Parliament met even on 18 and 19 July, not to mention that it is obviously sitting as long as it wants, and it is not far from my deeply committed, democratically committed fellow members of the government to adopt any law in 24 hours. I'll keep this in mind, isn't it, that's what happened the other day with the bill on the pledging of the Hungarian Medical Chamber? In order to be honest with the Hungarian government, he could have done this on July 18th, the 19th. But not only didn't do it, but Parliament started at the end of September, beginning of October.On 3 October, the MSZP specifically proposed here at the plenary session that we put it on the agenda, and then we did it every week, and every week, you effectively voted no, actually, by no, to prevent this issue from getting to the plenary session of the Hungarian Parliament and finally to vote. And how amazing, cynical and, by the way, I think shameless of themselves, they've made excuses every day, so let me look at some of them. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And from the country, I just forgot to mention that, I'm sorry. On October 20, it was said that social consultation was still under way, and on October 22nd, two days later Gergely Gulyás said literally that Parliament's work was not primarily determined by the government. I'm sorry, Mr. President, it may have seemed a little strong, but what I've just told you now you understand what I mean. Then, of course, even the Government Info itself adds that, yes, this was not the primary concern of Parliament, so he also acknowledges that the pro-government majority determines Parliament's timetable. Then, on 3 November, Péter Szijjártó already says that the government has submitted this proposal to the Parliament, so he has no further business with the Hungarian government. Contrasting to each other, however, there was a rather awkward and silly explanation on its own for weeks and months. On 13 December, Gergely Gulyás says that the Parliament will discuss this proposal on 20 February, and on 23 February Máté Kocsis informed the general public that although the Prime Minister explicitly convinced his own Fidesz fellow Members on a moral basis, on a moral basis, the majority or a good part of the Fidesz Group still cannot accept that the Hungarian Parliament accepts the accession of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden to NATO and now we have reached today. Ladies and gentlemen, If this were a peace-time process, it would be shameful, but let me remind you that the first most important point of this is last February 24th, when Russia took over and invaded the neighbouring Ukraine. [[14.00]] Why he has not managed to occupy a neighbouring country in a few days, or at least overthrow his government, plant a puppet government in his own sphere of interest, is not the subject of this debate, but it is a fact that instead a Russian occupation of a bloody, dirty, illegal, perpetrating mass crimes against humanity in violation of all kinds of international law is being carried out by Ukraine, in which it is not simply a million in the order of ten million! The citizens of the neighbouring country have fled their homes, including Hungary; where people have died in the order of hundreds of thousands, counting the losses of both sides; otherwise, only the Russian forces have lost hundreds of thousands in the first few weeks; in months, it is apparent that teens, boys, soldiers, without any training, have died in an inhuman, not normal manner; and today, according to the UN figures, the number released last week, there are at least eight thousand civilian victims of the war, who died in an act of war, bombing, not as soldiers, but as civilians. Not to mention that the Russian war party, by the way, caused and continues to cause millions of people suffering by destroying the power supply, heating, water supply. That's our position now. In this situation, there are two countries, one of Finland, which you probably know, but if you didn't already know, now maybe everyone will learn again with Russia's land and physical limits of nearly 1,300 kilometers. And there is Sweden, which, given its military existence outside of nearly two hundred years of alliance, says that it will then enter NATO and wish to join NATO. I understand your political concerns in political statements, but think for a moment about what you've been doing for the last eight months. I'm also telling President Kosha, honestly. So if someone looks at that map or knows a little about Finland's history, it doesn't mess with the Finnish government, it doesn't mess with the Finnish people in a situation like this. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman:]] Where such a country decides to give up its neutrality, it joins this alliance because they fear for their lives, honourable Members, with a direct border of 1,300 kilometres with Russia. I could say that I do not want to see events like Bucsa happening in their own country in the next period. And they see it as guaranteed for men, women, children, and the elderly in the country to join the world's largest military defense alliance, and by doing so, I suppose they expect, and we expect, that they will at least deter Russia from attacking this country, who, by the way, are our relatives and our old allies. And you're messing with it! Because Jozsi and Julcsi told me in kindergarten that... so you bring this to the same level that one of their MPs or MEPs said something nasty about the Hungarian government, so they're punishing you for having fun with a whole nation who can't do anything about it? ! Not to mention that Finland has about 20 grand of a professional army and, by the way, a trained 300,000 reserve army, about 200 to 300 tanks of which we received the first few. So what my fellow Member Németh has said here is that they have NATO-compatible, well-equipped, well-trained and in every way contributing to NATO's power, that is also a fact. And, for example, to lecture the Swedes about NATO accession is particularly funny from a country that has almost lost access to the lease fee for one dozen Gripen aircraft over the past decades; the country that manufactures it, and you have almost a hundred of it, and you'd like to give the NATO community access to it in case of trouble. As far as political issues are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, have you noticed that, by the way, Sweden was a government change last year, and that a right-wing and, in some circumstances, extreme right-wing political force has been brought to government? So you got that, right? [[Moore in the pro-government benches. Peter Cseresnyés: Nana! The president's ringing the bell.]] So when the Swedes are criticized here on the basis of their earlier speeches, you just noticed that there was a change of government and that your right-wing siblings are on the government. [[Robert Zsigó: What are you, a comedian?]] But once again, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think that Hungary can play the offended child, play with the safety of others, and dissuade Hungary because of any perceived or real political grievances, that is our opinion. And that is precisely why, and with this I conclude, what Viktor Orbán said here in Parliament, he said elsewhere, too, that the Hungarian government, according to the current government, also according to the current Hungarian security strategy, is guaranteeing the security of Hungary at the moment. And as your party president, the Prime Minister, has said, this will not change in the coming years, decades, according to your statement. NATO is the cornerstone of Hungary's security, and the accession of these two countries is important and beneficial to NATO in all respects. So we have a case where it is in the interest of the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden to join NATO, and we have a case where it is in the interest of the Republic of Hungary to join NATO. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that there is only one important thing for the Hungarian Parliament, and I am very, very curious about what will happen in the next few days and weeks for your delegation, that next Tuesday, if all that our fellow Member Németh has said is true, and what the Secretary of State has said, the Hungarian Parliament will vote for the accession of the two countries or what the head of state has said today, Katalin Novák. Otherwise, what will happen again is that you are speaking nicely here and continue to play your political games, which is unworthy of Hungary and harmful to our view. So I'm closing by asking you to vote, and we're asking for this to take place next Tuesday. I say to Mr President, if this is up to the convening of the Defence Committee, because we now see that this is the game, then let us convene, if necessary, that committee by 8:00 a.m. next Monday morning and vote on these two proposals on Tuesday. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-03-01-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Brenner Koloman, who has already arrived here on the platform, because he will present his message to the House from here. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-03-01-59	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Europe and NATO are our security, and therefore the Group of Jobbik-Conservatives naturally supports the accession of Sweden and Finland to NATO. But let's look at the international environment and the international judgment of the Fidesz one-party overpowering government, and today's debate is taking place. The world order after 1945, the global security order, changed in a first round wave in 1989-90. During this historic period, our country has finally been liberated from the Soviet-Russian occupation, and has set off on a path that we thought we could surely live in a balanced civil democracy and a social market economy from now on, and, after a while, in the prosperity and freedom that we thought we should have. [[14.10]] Then the world changed, as on 24 February, the aggression of Russia in Putin against Ukraine launched a completely new wave of this global security policy arrangement. There hasn't been a precedent for such an international treaty since 45, for a country to storm its neighbour with tanks, and for the civilian population to commit war crimes. It wasn't like that. I think that, in this situation, it is in the national interest, the national interest of our country to stand firm and clear in favour of NATO's good ally of the values of the European cultural circle, the cultural circle in which we conservatives believe, the foundations of which are Greek philosophy, respectable Fidesz colleagues of Roman law, the modern name of which is the rule of law, on which you are listening to very serious criticisms, quite rightly unfortunately [[Intercoms from the ranks of the governing parties, among them: It is not true! The president's ringing the bell.]] and the Christian culture circle. I think that one of the ectant examples of this choice of values is the kind of total foreign policy imbalance that unfortunately appears in this debate today in the 13th year of the Orbán government. I mean, let's see what happened. No one claims that our country should not pursue balanced political and economic relations in the heart of Europe. This would be in the national interest of our country. Of course. Now, please, when there is a murderous, aggressive Russian war in our neighbourhood, in which I would also like to highlight the Hungarians of Transcarpathia, which is there as a hostage, and for which I am convinced that in the medium term, Fidesz foreign policy will have very detrimental consequences, unfortunately; in this situation, the kind of foreign policy behaviour that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and the Government of Fidesz have been virtually testifying to since the outbreak of the war is a very serious violation of the Hungarian national interest; and what is certain is that the ability of national interest to assert itself has been severely limited by your policy. Let's face it, though, that right-wingness cannot mean that someone is pro-Russian and cheesy, as is seen every day from your propaganda. I quote your former communist comrade Benchik, who openly cheers the Russians. This is your propaganda TV. This is your propaganda TV! And then they perform the kind of sad play, indeed, as some of my fellow Members have said before, that our Swedish and Finnish friends are submitting their applications for accession in the context of a very serious world-historic transformation, and then the Hungarian delegation specifically promises them to, say, ratify them at the first parliamentary session after the summer, and then our Swedish and Finnish friends find that you have lied, as they do here. [[Noise.]] This is a shame, fellow Members, this is our national shame! I, as Conservative Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Parliament, will follow our Swedish and Finnish friends on your behalf, because this is a national shame, this sad game you have played since then. I will no longer tell you what scenes took place in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and in the House Committee. There was something shameful about the kind of Pharisee and deceitful and cynical method that you put this debate on the agenda today. The Fidesz one-party overpower, which can execute the Hungarian Medical Chamber as an improvised court in practically 24 hours, has brought us to the point that we are finally able to discuss this issue with the last of them. I think everyone in the world of diplomacy understands very well what you do. Everyone understands very well. You may laugh at me here, my fellow Members, because this is a sad and tragic story, and you are the cause of this, you are the cause of our country's international judgment. This will be your responsibility before the judgment of history. [[Constant intervention from the pro-government ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] And you'll have your verdict: guilty. I have to say that from this point of view, even now, it is still practically an act of internal politics that there is a debate here in the Fidesz fraction, and therefore a delegation must be sent to our friends in Finland and Sweden. Well, seriously. If this whole charade weren't so tragic, this sad play, then you'd just spread your hands, so seriously, how much longer can you do this, in the final face of the Hungarian national interest? ! [[Constant intervention from the pro-government ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] It will certainly end, of course, as always, after all the disadvantages suffered by our country's national judgment and the advocacy of our national interests converge around zero, and then, at the very last moment, they will vote elegantly; but I hope that this vote will indeed take place as soon as possible. Let's see who's been treated like this in the last few months. With Sweden whose planes are used by the Hungarian Defence Office, whose Swedish-produced aircraft, the Gripens, we use them to provide air space for our Hungarian and European allies. So, seriously. Then about Finland: seriously, Finland, which, during World War II, fought an excellent and heroic war against the Soviet-Russians, likes to remember who you are cheering for. [[Intercoms from the pro-government ranks, including Lajos Kósa: KáGéBéla! The president's ringing the bell.]] also against the Soviet-Russian invaders, I think that I am talking about these people and the people, not their individual parliamentary representatives, yes, there are extremist liberal politicians everywhere who stress things that are not true for our country. Yes! And there are criticisms, such as the breakdown of the rule of law, the one-party overpowerment, which is a legitimate criticism. [[Dr. Hajnalka Juhász: Christian-Conservative!]] And I think that it is very, very important to discuss these two things on a bilateral basis that this is an open and honest debate. We as a conservative community [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]] We're partners in this, but let's split these two things up. You are not being criticized because you are practically condemned from a political point of view. No. In this long process that we are talking about, your policy has shown the Hungarian Government as an unreliable partner, and this is tragic. [[Lajos Kósa: Guilty!]] This is my tragic, respected fellow Members. In conclusion, I would like to state that our conservative political community, which believes in and holds high in the punchy flag of October 23, 1956, is not the peace of November 4, 1956, the peace of the hanging trees that you support... [[Intercoms from the pro-government line: Shame on you!]] Yes, it is a great shame, Congressman, I agree, it is a great shame for you. [[Intercoms from the pro-government ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] That's how they support it. I believe that today's debate and this record, in which you yell at me, I hope you will be involved, my fellow Member, in front of the court of history, will show that this is your shame. I wish everyone to vote as soon as possible for the accession of our Swedish and Finnish friends to NATO, because we know that Europe is our security, the European Union from which Viktor Orbán and Fidesz want to lead our country. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2023-03-01-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the group of our country is Mr President Novák, who is also speaking about the pulpit of the platform from here. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-03-01-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Peace, neutrality, independence should be one of the most important values. Is the government willing to take the Hungarian veto of NATO expansion in order to avoid World War II? That is what I asked in September, but the answer was a misconception, and unfortunately, now the Orbán government has joined the international line, according to the expectations of the Hungarian Balliberal opposition. [[14.20]] The Hungarians have decided: 97 percent of them are not sanctions, we can see them on the billboards, but Viktor Orbán is still voting for them in Brussels, so Hungary is helping to serve American interests against the glamorous government propaganda, unfortunately. Unfortunately, the Hungarian veto of the enlargement of NATO Member States is now being promoted as the sole party by the Mi Hazank Movement, because another step towards the World War would be a provocation for the expansion of the military alliance on Russia's border, while the neutral zone would be of international interest. We have no problem with Finland and Sweden, but it is also in their interest not to widen the war conflict by joining NATO right now. Europe's peace and fragile balance are ensured if Russia and NATO are not or are only marginal to each other, because there is a militaryly neutral or so-called buffer zone. So far, Sweden and Finland have played this role in the North and Ukraine in Central and Eastern Europe. Over the last year, we have seen that the attempt to eliminate this buffer zone, i.e. to integrate Ukraine into the Western Federal System, automatically triggers a violent reaction by the other party. It is therefore essential that Russia's neighbourhood, Finland, Sweden, and even Ukraine, and the other former Soviet republics, be militaryly neutral in order to prevent the conflict from expanding into a world war in this situation. Hungary has a responsibility that, unfortunately, instead of independence, our country has become a foreign military march area, and we are allowed to carry arms to Ukraine, of course only through Romania and Slovakia, so that the government propaganda can continue to say that arms shipments from the territory of Hungary to Ukraine cannot go directly from the territory of Ukraine, but the back door was left to use the Hungarian rail system, the Hungarian roads to carry weapons, by interfering with two NATO countries. Hungary therefore has a serious responsibility in this, and we should oppose it, at least the Hungarian Movement opposes this kind of participation in the war. The commander of the Hungarian Defence Forces has secretly visited the Ukrainian Joint Chiefs of Staff. The head of the armed forces there said that he was satisfied with the level of military cooperation between Ukraine and Hungary. What else does he know that the Hungarian government doesn't want us to know? Unfortunately, they have also undertaken to secure the Baltic airspace with Hungarian Gripens, and they are also in conflict with Russian fighters. In fact, we have also undertaken to protect Slovakia's airspace while Slovaks offer their own fighter planes to Ukraine. Well, what if it wasn't circumstantial support for war that took the Fidesz government? ! According to a government decision, the deployment of foreign NATO combat groups is now allowed throughout our country as a response to the Ukrainian war. That's not what they promised me before. Giving up Hungary's independence, making Hungary an area of military marching is unacceptable, so Mi Hazank Movement demands free and neutral Hungary. Foreign forces have no place in our country, because Hungary belongs to the Hungarians. The Hungarian Defence Forces should not be the expendable aide team of the Atlantist military alliance. The Hungarian nation has sacrificed countless sons in wars for foreign interests, it is time to break the bad tradition. Unfortunately, today only the Hungarian Movement represents the demand of the young men of March 1848 not to take our Hungarian soldiers abroad and take the foreigners away from us. In the spirit of this, we march to the 15th of March to commemorate the Pilvax in the middle of a peace demonstration. We also oppose the participation of the Hungarian Defence Forces in foreign occupations in the service of foreign interests. From the billions spent in Afghanistan, Iraq, Mali, and so on, for our participation in similar occupations, we would rather provide more attractive domestic remuneration and more modern equipment, more serious domestic military exercises for our soldiers. Instead of the modular development of forces focusing on foreign services, the National Defence Programme of the Hungarian Movement advocates the overall weapon planning of the defence of the country. Unfortunately, Mr. Minister has not denied my knowledge of my written question that any soldier who does not wish to serve outside his country can not receive a rank higher than that of the Lieutenant Colonel in the Hungarian Defence Office. The stationing of foreign forces in Hungary and making our country a target of the Russian military forces have unfathomable consequences. Why does the Hungarian government make Hungary an area of foreign military march with NATO troops temporarily stationed in Hungary? Instead of folding the territorial integrity of Ukraine, the Hungarian government should instead prevent the Hungarians of Transcarpathia being used as bullets, because this is not our war, yet hundreds of our enlisted Transcarpathian Hungarian compatriots have died or been injured in this war. We do not know exactly how much; if the government has information, please publish it in this debate. Our contractual obligation from our NATO membership would only help to protect it if a Member State was attacked, but Ukraine is not a NATO member. Our Hungarian Movement opposes the military support of Ukraine against the Hungarian national part of Transcarpathia, which is a chauvinist, repressive policy, and the service of American interests. The embargo against the Russians has already caused invaluable damage mainly to Hungarian agriculture and the manufacturing industry that has been built on it in recent years, and now the Hungarian interest should be the first. Dear Parliament, In recent days, we have read that the Fidesz fraction is very divided in matters of NATO accession to Sweden and Finland, so your group leader said. Compared to this, we have not heard a single criticism today, only mamelukok, that everyone agrees with Viktor Orbán, or that is criticism... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You didn't come in! The president's ringing the bell.]] All right, all they had was what other grievances they had with Finland and Sweden that weren't related to the subject, which made them a little pouty, and now they're getting a good read, but they're voting for what leads to the Third World War. We have not seen any responsible male statesmen's considerations, criticisms of NATO expansion here. Everyone agrees with Viktor Orbán, who, by the way, does not have an argument, well, that's what we saw on Monday. Well, what did he start talking about when we tried to push him to think again about his retreat? He started talking about the fact that when it comes to Ukraine's accession to NATO, it will be a much more difficult question. Well, what's that got to do with it? And the Prime Minister wasn't even able to distance himself from that idea? I've already said this: is this the next one, say, in a few years, if there is another Ukraine? The other part of the misconception was that Ukraine's accession to NATO would be a much more serious threat than the enlargement of NATO to Sweden and Finland. Everything can be relativised, but we are still talking about another step towards the world war, and we have not heard any arguments. Then, Prime Minister, he began to talk about why he did not support our exit from NATO, while again this is not on the agenda, this is not the issue, this is not the subject of the debate, but what he could not make any argument about why they supported the expansion of NATO in the middle of such a conflict, broadening the military conflict with another step towards the world war. And there was the same amount of argument for Katalin Novák today, who felt the need to intervene in the decision of the Hungarian Parliament, and to point the direction to the still erring citizens or possibly misguided, insecure representatives, and made a clear position in favour of which, after all, he could not bring forward a single argument as to why Hungary should support the expansion of NATO. As Romania's unconditional accession to the EU was voted against their earlier promise on 26 September 2005, it is now an equally diplomatic and serious foreign policy mistake, a historic mistake, if they allow themselves to be carried away with this war madness. And it is very painful that, as far as Hungarian defence is concerned, I asked the Minister of Defence in vain on a written question about how much our NATO involvement costs, such as the invading in Afghanistan that ended in a bad fall. The answer is secret. How many Hungarian soldiers have been sent to serve foreign countries around the world? I've had another written question in the last few weeks. The answer is secret. How long will the Covid vaccination be mandatory in the army, and how many soldiers have been fired due to inoculation in the midst of a shortage of numbers? The answer is secret. Well, that's how they operate it, or rather they don't operate it, or they lay it down and let loose the remaining parts of the Hungarian Defence Service, even though we need meaningful answers, and instead of serving the new world order, we need our independence, our neutrality, thereby promoting peace. [[14.30]] Dear Parliament, Ceterum censeo, according to the Hungarian Movement, it is time for Hungary to take action against the expansion of war with the veto of NATO enlargement. We really don't want a world war.
u2023-03-01-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the Dialogue Group is Mr Szabó Timea. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-03-01-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The ratification of the accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO was not a favor, but an obligation was made here in Parliament a few minutes ago from the mouth of Zsolt Németh, a member and lead speaker of the Fidesz faction. We agree perfectly, Congressman, on this matter, but what we do not know and understand is why it took us seven months to bring the debate of this law to Parliament. Seven months ago, the proposal was submitted, at other times, I do not know that in the last 12 years, there has been an example of the adoption of any law for seven months. In the summer, when the kata tax form was abolished, literally overnight, which increased its tax to 500,000 Hungarian entrepreneurs overnight, it did not last for seven months, there was no social consultation, there was no mission to clarify all kinds of questions, but on Tuesday evening it was submitted, and on Wednesday it was accepted that the lives of 500,000 people were difficult. We are standing here compared to this, and no one understands it, but from your speeches it seems that neither do you, why this took seven months, and who knows how long it will actually last, because they are making completely contradictory statements about ratification of the accession of the two Member States to NATO. Of the 30 NATO countries, 28 have ratified the accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO by the end of September. Once again, it is we, thanks to your Prime Minister, Viktor Orbán, and thanks to your Fidesz government, who are on the bench of shame, who have failed their Western allies again, who are having fun again, who are blackmailing me again, who are lying again. It is a shame to sit on a bench with Turkey on this issue, it is a shame that even all Visegrád countries have ratified the accession of these two countries to NATO in September at the latest. Last time Slovakia ratified it on 27 September, everyone else first. Even between September and March, six months have passed, and you still say that we will send missions. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Delegation, not mission!]] 'Cause they talked dirty to us, and then we'll see what happens. I will come back to this in a moment to really tell me what the mission that was sent there will actually be. Viktor Orbán and Máté Kocsis also claimed, that not only did they now take away our sandbox, as Hajnalka Juhász said, the Swedish representatives and the Finnish representatives, because this debate is going about this standard now that they have spoken badly to us, but they also said that in your faction and in the Fidesz and KDNP faction there was also a debate about NATO expansion escalating the war and conflict while they said that NATO is a defence military organization. If it's a defense military organization, how does the expansion of a defense organization escalate a conflict? They don't want to join this defense organization to attack, they want to defend themselves. Then who and what are you escalating? So the problem, my dear fellow Members, is that your Prime Minister, Mr Orbán, is their group leader Máté Kocsis and you are also talking nonsense on this issue. You ask Finland and Sweden for mutual respect and say that there is no place for ideology in military cooperation. We don't understand. [[Nacsa Lawrence: I know you don't understand.]] Why, have Sweden and Finland brought in some ideological gender issue regarding NATO accession? No, you brought this in again. Not Sweden, not Finland. Again, you're trying to mix things up here, you're talking nonsense because you know exactly what you're representing here is embarrassing. Zsolt Németh alone seemed to have slept through the last two weeks and had not heard the statements of his own faction. I very much agree with almost all your sentences, Mr President, when you say that Ukraine's territorial integrity must be respected from the 0th minute. But in comparison, there are also statements from the politicians of Fidesz that peace talks should be opened and a ceasefire initiated in such a way that, where the various armies are at the moment, the territory belongs to them. But you said otherwise. [[Zsolt Németh: Not like this... not this!]] Well, my fellow Members, there were. We're gonna find out, there were these fidesz statements that you have to put the gun down there, and then you're gonna have to start talking about it. [[Nacsa Lawrence: It wasn't like that! Intruder from Fidesz: No, it's not true!]] They haven't said that in the last few weeks. There have been statements of this kind on your part in the past year. I would like to ask you how relevant the question of the accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO is that a Swedish Member or a Finnish Member has said that Hungary is corrupt. I have bad news, my honourable fellow Members, not only the Swedish and Finnish Members said that Hungary is corrupt, but the whole European Union has said that, including the Poles, Slovaks and everyone else. We do not understand how this comes to the question of NATO accession again. Hajnalka Juhász also complained that the Swedes welcomed the Commission's decision to freeze Hungarian EU funds. Once again, not just them; it was the European Union's decision. Why? That's because you're corrupt. That's because EU funds have disappeared over long, long years. You also said mutual respect. The problem is that this mutual respect again, when it comes to the Ukrainian war, we do not feel it on your part. Again, let me refer to Zsolt Németh. I was just talking to my fellow Member, Mr Bellozó, about the fact that someone from Fidesz has said Vladimir Putin's name for the first time in a long time. Because you don't. At best, it is said that Russia is the aggressor, but that Vladimir Putin is a war criminal, who is completely unjustly opposed to all international law, has attacked a sovereign country, and he is therefore committing war crimes now, there, in Ukraine, that has never been said by your mouth. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It must be spoken by a court of law.]] The fact that they remain mass graves in Ukraine, Bucsa, Izjum or Liman, in cities where the Russian army or the Wagner group sweeps through, and kill families, elderly people, children, women, men, where during the ceasefire in Bucsa they bomb a children's hospital, endangering the lives of pregnant women, the lives of newborns, we don't hear them talking about them, we don't hear you condemning them. When they found a basement in Bucsa where more than 25 women were held by Russian soldiers systematically raping them for weeks, we didn't hear from Fidesz that they said it was a war crime, so they had to answer Vladimir Putin and the Russian army before the Hague International Court. [[14.40]] When the fact is that hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian children were kidnapped by soldiers from the Russian army and are now being held in closed camps, we did not hear them say that Vladimir Putin and the Russian army were committing war crimes. Last week was the OSCE parliamentary meeting in Vienna. When almost all delegations confronted the Russian delegation, for example, that hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian children were being held in camps, the Russian delegation did not deny it. They didn't say that wasn't true, and they're asking for it. You know what the head of the Russian delegation said? I mean, that's true, but those are good camps, they're very comfortable for the kids, that's what he said, there's no problem with that, there's very good conditions for the kids. So, when you talk about mutual respect for Sweden and Finland, you should think of Ukraine in the spirit of mutual respect and think about what Vladimir Putin and the Russian army are doing now in Ukraine, because that is now at stake when we want to ratify Finland and Sweden's accession to NATO. It's not peacetime! But also in peacetime, as Zsolt Németh said, it is our duty as dogs to ratify such an expansion, not by grace, but by duty. It's a patriotic duty in our neighborhood during such a war, not a favor, a patriotic duty. And you're demeaning this question that basically guarantees our own safety that that ugly Finn and the bad Swede said that we're corrupt. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Stop lying!]] And he said there's no rule of law here, and Hajnalka Juhász said how dare a Member who doesn't even have the Constitutional Court say it. Well, we're a lot further in with our Constitutional Court, indeed, which your party soldiers have been able to fill! So, is that really the quality of the debate? ! If my fellow Member Nacsa has now said in his speech as the lead speaker that he will be voted in favour of ratification, I understand well, that he is supported by a Fidesz MEP and lead speaker Zsolt Németh, he said that he would support and vote for it, then I would like to ask what this mission is. First of all, let me be clear that this is not a parliamentary... [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Delegation, not mission!]] Then it's a delegation. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] There's the word magic again. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: There was a mission in Afghanistan!]] It doesn't matter, it's a delegation! Then I'll rephrase it because it might make more sense: what is this delegation you are planning in Finland and Sweden? Because, by the way, this is not a parliamentary delegation, that is for sure, because I do not know that there is a single opposition representative involved, so this is a government delegation at best. But we'd like an answer to what's going to happen there, what's being asked of them. Why did you say we were corrupt? Tell me we're not even corrupt. Now there are two possible outcomes. The Swedes and the Finns get to their heads that, oh, we would love this accession, rather than say that they are not corrupt; then it is a simple matter, they will probably vote for it. Or they say that this is also a joke, of course the Hungarian government is corrupt, because the Swedish and Finnish have not decided, but the European Commission has decided to suspend EU funds because these money has disappeared, and so the other possibility is that the Finnish and Swedish negotiating delegation will say that we are not withdrawing these claims. Then what's going to happen? Then they won't vote for their accession? So we finally have this delegation because it's unclear. Now KDNP said that they support it, said Fidesz, that they support it, and, despite the great internal debate, Viktor Orbán also asks Fidesz and KDNP to vote for this, Katalin Novák today says that we have a duty to vote in favour of NATO enlargement. [[Lajos Kósa: He didn't say!]] He said he thought it was our duty. What's gonna happen? We can't hear it, we can't hear it. This delegation is going, and we don't know what the consequences will be. Either you're doing all this to get this whole question and ratification going again, to help Vladimir Putin's bloody and illegal war, or you're really trying to blackmail the Swedes, the Finns, to fight the EU money for us, but they're not gonna be able to do that, because it's not their decision. So if you'll just come clean about what this double speech is you're doing here about the delegation. I would like to point out that, of course, the Group of Dialogue fully supports NATO enlargement and fully supports the ratification of the accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO, because we believe that this will also serve Hungary's security. We must therefore ratify this, not by grace, as has been said, but by patriotic obligation. Thank you.
u2023-03-01-64	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches, and now we have the opportunity to make a two-minute speech. I give the floor to Congresswoman Ágnes Vadai, the notary of the Parliament, representing DK. Here you go.
u2023-03-01-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Anyone who does not know the speakers of the KDNP and the Fidesz factions may think that you are interested in the rapid ratification. Zsolt Németh, who is indeed an Atlantist politician in Fidesz, perhaps the last slowly in the Fidesz fraction, has said in many respects a text that should be spoken to ordinary pro-government representatives in a normal debate. The problem, Mr Congressman, Mr President, is that you know that the adoption of these two documents in the Hungarian Parliament will not take place next week, because you have convened a Committee on Foreign Affairs, where a detailed debate will take place. [[Zsolt Németh: Normal schedule! Lajos Kósa: Rules of the House...]] It's obviously impossible to... It's not a normal schedule, you know that.
u2023-03-01-66	[[It's ringing.]] Congressman Lajos Kósa...
u2023-03-01-67	It is impossible for us to vote on this issue. The Committee on Foreign Affairs will meet twice next week, and on the basis of your preliminary information, the Committee on Foreign Affairs will meet on Monday, and it could be dealt with there, but the Committee on Foreign Affairs will not deal with this on the basis of prior information. In addition, the House Committee's proposal for a vote on the agenda has arrived, there is no ratification vote next week, so it can really be voted on 20 March as soon as possible. As far as the parliamentary delegation is concerned, this is obviously not a delegation from Parliament; this is obviously a delegation from Fideszes-KDNP. By the way, you can take Steven Seagal, Mickey Mouse, and whoever you want in this delegation, I don't care at all, so I don't care about that. I am more concerned that you are going to Finland and Sweden with the Hungarian taxpayers' money, while, by the way, learning about the situation in Finland and Sweden can also be at home, and are regularly missing this. They miss talking to colleagues in NATO, they miss talking to allies, they miss talking to the Council of Europe. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] I suggest that if you want to talk about these issues, that the next time you talk intensively with your colleagues in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, this will help a lot. Thank you very much.
u2023-03-01-68	Thank you very much, notary. The next speaker from the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go.
u2023-03-01-69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to address my speech to Mrs Szabó. I would like to live to see the period here in the Hungarian Parliament, when you will defend Hungary as vehemently as you are now, let us say, with Sweden and Finland. At least once in the situation where you stand up for Hungary and defend Hungary, it would be very helpful, honourable Member, in the situation of the government and the opposition. The difference between the delegation and the mission is that you were on a mission in Afghanistan, and the delegation is going to find out and negotiate, and that's a big difference, Mrs. [[Szabó Timea: You are so unlucky, really!]] There are different processes. I would like to point out to the honourable Member that about a year ago, on 10 March, the Hungarian Parliament adopted a declaration by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Russian-Ukrainian war in which it condemned Russia's aggression, in which it stood for Ukraine's national sovereignty and territorial integrity. Imagine, there were some Members who did not vote for this: Bence Tordai, from the Dialogue, who was sitting here. [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Yes!]] He did not vote for your party partner, your political instigator, activist partner, did not vote for this resolution proposal, honourable Member. [[14.50]] I think that way we can understand what you like to talk about when it's about that. We didn't say they said we were corrupt. Well, you tell me that every day, and then you're wrong. The problem, honourable Member, is that insults were made, and I have also quoted it, but you were not here at the time, or you were not listening, they said about the government's plan for child protection and family protection, that you were quoting Germany in the 1930s. That's what they said! Germany in the thirties compared the family protection action plan, honourable Member, which gives families an independent home, which provides families with support, start-ups and so on. That is the problem, the insults of this kind, honourable Member. And yes, these are worth clarifying, and it is worth putting federal cooperation on the basis of mutual respect and dialogue. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-03-01-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Ms Szabó Timea, Head of Group, from the Dialogue Group. Here you go.
u2023-03-01-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My fellow Member Nacsa has some textual problems, but it's okay because I'll say it again. I started and concluded by saying that ratification of the accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO is of Hungarian interest, it is in our interest and strengthening our security. If you don't understand, that's your problem. Bence Tordai, as my activist partner, I don't fully understand, but I don't want to mention that. [[Péter Cseresnyés: Text understanding problem!]] The fact that you're presenting proposals for a resolution, once again, which doesn't include Vladimir Putin being a war criminal [[Nacsa Lőrinc: But it has nothing to do with this!]] And he commits war crimes... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: This is a court of law!]] No, my honourable fellow Member. [[Lajos Kósa: Yes, yes!]] It can be said now, because the facts that have come to light in Ukraine [[Peter Cseresnyés intervenes.]] They're proof that these things have happened. What, you don't think the Bucsa massacre happened? You don't think they're raping women with a mass of Russian soldiers? You don't think there are hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian children in camps? You're saying it wasn't a fact, but the court will find out? Exactly, even the Russian delegation did not deny this in Vienna. So don't get me wrong. Say that you will vote for NATO expansion here in Parliament next week and that the delegation, which is going to Sweden and Finland by the way, has nothing to do with this, is your domestic political struggle, it's part of their propaganda. Then everyone will understand that otherwise it will happen, but now there is a double speech again, playing a double game. Thank you.
u2023-03-01-72	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. No further requests were made for a two-minute speech. It is now up to the speakers who have been notified in writing to give their views. First, I give the floor from the Fidesz Group to Mr Mihály Balla. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-03-01-73	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I am one of the Members who were members of the Foreign Affairs Committee of Parliament and of the delegation of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly at the time of the Hungarian NATO accession on 12 March 1999. Our country has been waiting nine years for full membership from 1990, while we also had a referendum in 95 to be part of the collective defence alliance. Although Sweden and Finland did not join NATO for decades, after the Russian-Ukrainian war broke out, they asked to join the alliance. It is also true that the parliamentary delegation of the two countries is a member of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, they are represented by a parliamentary delegation at various events, and basically the two countries have also established close defence cooperation with NATO, and last year, in June 2022, they asked for their full membership. NATO has accepted it, but the procedure requires ratification of the parliaments of all the Member States in order to reach a final decision. Therefore, the Government of Hungary has also submitted to the Parliament a proposal for ratification of the accession to Sweden, Finland and NATO. He did this because he supported the enlargement of the alliance, and Hungary has always represented the policy of open doors in the alliance. The government's support is therefore principled and clear, but the position of the political groups of our Group Group is less clear than that, as there are many issues in the political groups regarding the accession of Sweden and Finland to NATO. Some of these are concerns about defence policy, professional issues, such as the fact that it is useful to expand and increase the borders of the NATO Alliance with Russia thousands of miles in a war period; on the other hand, political issues have been raised, including the critical political attacks of the various parties and government actors in the two countries against Hungary. The declarations made in relation to the migrant crisis, the Covid epidemic, the rule of law or even the Hungarian position on sanctions issues could be long-lasting. To highlight one of these statements, which may have reflected the opinion of a government at the time, former Social Democratic Foreign Minister Ann Linde answered one of the following questions in 2020: "The Government and I are concerned about democratic developments in some EU Member States. I and my colleagues in the government have spoken on several occasions in the negotiations with representatives of Hungary against negative developments in Hungary, in the Swedish Parliament, and I stress this in an international and multilateral framework. Among other things, we have clearly highlighted the freedom of the press, the conditions for receiving migrants and the risks associated with the measures taken to combat the coronal virus. I also sent a letter to the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe together with my colleagues in Northern Europe, in which, among other things, we drew attention to this in relation to Hungary. Last time I asked this question was at the Foreign Ministers' meeting on 3 April. Here's the end of the quote. [[Csaba Nagy: Amazing!]] Or their political position in the European Parliament on Hungary, which, either with Poland or with our country, wants to take away the various resources that we have. A large number of statements from the European Parliament which are critical of Hungary could also be drawn up, which was spoken by Swedish and Finnish representatives. It is therefore legitimate that our representatives ask how a country expects its support if its politicians and its leading politicians have been constantly and consistently spreading lies about Hungary over the past period, and how they expect quick, correct decision-making when, in recent times, Hungary has been constantly criticised, our migration policy, and we have been accused of the rule of law, sometimes based on preconception, which are not true. For Hungarian MPs elected every four years in democratic elections, these criticisms are, of course, offensive, because when politicians in Sweden claim that there is no democracy or rule of law in Hungary, they question the legitimacy of the election of Hungarian MPs. It is therefore right to expect the pro-government part of the Hungarian Parliament to clarify these issues in the context of a political discussion or discussion with a Swedish and Finnish parliament. The geopolitical and security challenges and the situation are in favour of enlargement from a defence point of view, as NATO is today the strongest defence alliance, which will also provide security for our country. [[15.00]] However, the political concerns that have been expressed with regard to the new candidates in our group must be addressed on a political basis. In the current situation, the NATO accession of Sweden and Finland is justified, but this is not a simple technical issue. That's not true! It is a complex decision, and it is therefore important that our delegation meets with the representatives of the parliaments concerned, so that the questions raised are clarified as soon as possible. And I hope that, following clarification of the questions, the Parliament will support the government's presentation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-01-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mr Attila Tilki. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-03-01-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, I thought of Confucius' saying, "Don't be sad that you don't have an office, rather worry about it and act in a way that makes you worthy." This quote came to my mind because there was an election on 3 April 2022, the Hungarian people gave their opinion in the election, and Fidesz gained two-thirds authority. From now on, it is a strange feeling that opposition representatives are telling us what we can say, what we can do, what we can't say and what we can't do. As they say in our country, but in many other places in the country, I think they're sitting on the other side of the horse. This topic is much more serious than making jokes about it, so I do not think it is appropriate to debate, although this is my opinion, so that someone else might think that it is okay to talk about moving birds, or if we use the term "soft sandbox". And it is also strange to say that the Dialogue, which was a dialogue for Hungary before, then left out the patriotic obligation for Hungary, is the party that has just left the word "Hungary" out of the party's name. But I don't want to make any jokes, because my constituency is next to Ukraine. Believe me, fellow Members, we sense that a Transcarpathian person in the life of Hungarian, Ruthenian or Ukrainian means war, what is the meaning of possible forced enlisting. But somehow I felt that the younger people knew less, we older people know, as if we were looking at the seventeen moments of spring, when Congressman Bellozó said on which day we did what we did, on which day we did what we didn't do or what we didn't do. I don't think there's any reason why we're discussing this now. 'Cause we're negotiating. By the way, we have said in white and black that we have been busy with European Union referrals and legislation, and we have just happened. Period, period, period, period, I don't think there's anything in this that can be called into account. It is also interesting that our fellow Member says that it is a shame to sit on the same bench with Turkey. Says Szabó Timea, the Szabó Timea who is no longer here; he said and stormed away. And why is it a shame, anyway? We are talking about NATO's second strongest army in the case of Turkey. And a question arises in a man of good sense in our country, where questions are asked. There they ask why the European Union will stop talking about peace. Why can only the Pope and Hungary tell you that peace can be the solution, because this war cannot be a winner? These people who go to church also ask if their good thing is to hang the figure of the Turkish President in Sweden, in front of the city hall, or if the Koran is burned. I think that we believe and people in the countryside believe that freedom of expression is not allowed anywhere by anyone burning the sacred book of any religion at any protest. Therefore, if a Member may have questions as to how he will decide on the vote, it should always be borne in mind that, as an individual Member of Parliament, people's opinions should, of course, be taken into account. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Otherwise, why wouldn't the sentences bother me when a Swedish representative to Hungary in the thirties [[Sic!]] Does it look like our country? Or who says we have a relationship with Aliyev, while we see the President of the European Commission going to Azerbaijan and talking about how to look for new energy sources for the European Union. We say that we expect respect from the Hungarians because we respect the citizens of other countries. I do not compare and we never compare Swedish or Finnish politics to any of the years, we do not give an opinion on their family policy, but it is very disturbing when a Member tells us what kind of person this Hungarian Prime Minister is, who encourages more and more children to be born in order to solve demographic problems. We have just discussed amending the budget and we are pleased to see unprecedented support for family protection ideas. Once again, I would like to finish this brief speech with former Prime Minister Lónyay, who said at the time:, It is undeniable that our situation is difficult, we have many reasons for concern, but not for disheartening as long as we can protect our legal rights by recognising the situation. That's what we're doing now, that's why we're negotiating, and that's why we're going to make the right decision when it comes to it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-01-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kósa, Fidesz Group. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2023-03-01-77	Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, The accession of the Parliament, the Kingdom of Sweden and the Republic of Finland to NATO is an important issue, with moderate interest. If we were to accept, just like, ab start, a statement by opposition representatives, or, if you like, a revelation, and let's say, this case would be patriotic, then the opposition would be sitting in a crowded queue. Or completely unpatriotic, because they are so not interested in such an extremely important patriotic question. But I could also say that if we took what was said so far in the debate seriously, we would have a mustache with some politicians of the Kingdom of Sweden and the Republic of Finland, who have an important post, because Mr. Harangozó himself suggested that we be good, good, they talk about everything, there are weird figures, they talk about it, we don't have to take it seriously. Well, those who made completely false statements about Hungary were, in particular, government members, factions leaders, and so insignificant people to be sorry for. We take these things seriously, so we do not follow Mr Bellozó's advice, but, of course, we take them into account. I would add that, in this sense, it has nothing to do with NATO accession. [[Dr. Tamás Bell Clap.]] There may be other countries in NATO with which we are debating, but we have never suggested that someone be excluded from NATO or that some kind of retortion should be felt. Think of our discussions with Turkey on refugee and asylum compliance. Although it may be said that there was a wide range of aspects in the debate, many issues have been raised, such as discussing many interesting facts of the Ukrainian war or the ex-cathedra statement of certain facts, I would rather consider two aspects. On the one hand, the enlargement of NATO, its security, military policy and international cooperation aspects, and, on the other hand, our relationship with the two candidate countries. [[15.10]] In order to consider NATO aspects, we need to raise some very serious and very serious questions that are not customary or even deeply silent about it, but just by listening to it, things cannot be undone and absolutely cannot be denied serious facts. NATO has a defence contract, it has a 5th article that says that if a NATO country is under attack, the Alliance will commit itself to protecting that country. Recently, last fall, a very brutal terrorist attack occurred in a NATO Member State, Germany, an attack, namely the explosion of the North Stream gas pipeline, where it is not possible that bored light divers were messing with the dynamite and accidentally blew up the pipeline. Everyone has consistently stated that only highly prepared sub-unites of official armies are capable of carrying out such an attack, and have listed some of them, except for Russia, all NATO members. They're all NATO members! The version was rejected by the United States, England, Norway, Poland and the rest, by the way, up to Germany, by the way, by Russia's self-mutilation and blowing up its own gas pipeline, even because it would have been enough to shut it off if it didn't want to supply gas on the pipeline. But now we know, because part of the President of the United States, Joe Biden, has spoken at a press conference and told us that they're going to take him out, whatever it is, but they're going to take out the wire. We know that the former Polish Foreign Minister sent a thank-you text, and we know that the British Prime Minister at the time also texted us that they did it, and the rest, and so on. It is enough that today it is very, very serious, and, by the way, it is an insurmountable presumption that this was carried out by the United States itself with the help of Norway. The rebuttal that the United States said no is nothing at all. But if anyone blew it up, there's one thing there's no doubt about it: a NATO country has been subjected to an unprecedentedly serious attack, according to the standard concept of international law, a terrorist attack. What NATO has done, namely that it has waived this fact and pretends that its investigation is completely irrelevant, and no one cares that it is a gas pipeline with a very many billions of dollars of investment, which Joe Biden himself told the German Chancellor at the time that the United States is not opposed to ending and activating it, yet someone blew it up. Then the question is that we are a serious organisation as NATO, and if we detect an attack on a NATO Member State, what should we do? There's no article 5? Is there a lack of interest? Everyone went home, the last one turned out the lights? Remember, when Poland was hit by a rocket attack on the Russian-Ukrainian war, there was a great deal of concern. Two people died, terrible, and indeed an SZ-300 missile hit, or the remains of it crashed into Poland. The whole world was worried about escalation or not what was going to happen here. The Ukrainians claimed that the Russians had fired, and it turned out, of course, that in the context of the fights, Ukrainian air defense shot down a Russian launch missile. This is what happens in the war, make no mistake, not that everyone was surprised, but that everyone took Article 5 extremely seriously. In the case of an unprecedented international terrorist act, will we ignore it? Indifference? The only reason I'm saying this is because the problem is: what feeds NATO? Trust. The trust is that we take Article 5 seriously. The confidence that Portugal and the Portuguese soldiers will come to Hungary if necessary to fight against the enemy that is attacking Hungary. The belief that if Norway or Iceland were to be attacked, the Hungarian soldiers would go there and defend themselves, or they would carry out the task of joining NATO. If there is no such trust, then there is no NATO, no misunderstanding, no NATO! It's a defense organization, and if a defense organization doesn't respond to a terrorist attack they've never seen before, it certainly destroys the trust fabric that holds NATO together. I'm stressing this because I don't think this thing is over. After all, in connection with the Gleiwitz radio station, it turned out that the Germans eventually organised the pretext, and that all such cases would eventually reveal what had happened. Undoubtedly, this is certainly not good for NATO and NATO's international confidence. Similarly, many international military or federal actions involving NATO have serious questions about the fact that, by the way, there is this terrible Russian-Ukrainian war, the Russians attacked, the Russians are the aggressive party, and, of course, as every sovereign country, Ukraine, has a full right and duty to defend its territorial integrity and fight against the attacking Russians, but this fact does not override everything, it does not overwrite common sense. So we recognise this right of Ukraine, which does not make Ukraine a bastion of Western democracy, because the opposition and the entire opposition press have been specifically banned, and by the way, we know that our Hungarian brothers in Transcarpathia still suffer retortions that cannot be allowed to pass. But it wasn't any different in history. Because Stalin took the fight to the Nazi Wehrmacht and Hitler, he didn't become a soldier of freedom, he didn't overwrite the gulag and that communist Bolshevik horror. He didn't even overwrite the fact that he was fighting with the Germans who had previously signed an eternal contract of friendship and non-attack under the name of Molotov-Ribbentrop. Make no mistake, it does not deprive Ukraine of any right to defend itself, nor does Putin excuse anything, but I would just like to say that on this issue, as so often in politics, let us not throw away our common sense, let us stay a little bit on the ground. I understand the passionate speeches about Putin and others, but somehow we use common sense here, the framework created by international law, which gives us a little guidance, if now, in international law, let's say, after the North Stream has been blown up, we can't really trust it. In this connection, any member of the Hungarian Parliament may, of course, ex cathedra declare Putin to be a war criminal, or even permit it. Let me tell you some facts. M. Lai 1968, Vietnam war. On March 16, the U.S. Army slaughtered over 500 Vietnamese civilians, so literally. There's been a trial, there's been a conviction of the culprits, and that doesn't make the president of the United States a war criminal, and I'm gonna say, they didn't even prosecute him, and that doesn't make him a war criminal. Let's sweep around our own house. January 1942, but also December 1941, Novi Sad, cold days: the soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Service have committed massacres there with auxiliary forces. That doesn't mean that Miklós Horthy was prosecuted in Nuremberg lawsuits. [[15.20]] In fact, there could have been a misunderstanding. I just want to say two things about this whole war criminal thing. Churchill has a great saying: there is no history, there are only historians. And there is another indisputable fact. In the vast majority of cases, the courts that decide on war crimes are the winners, and this war crime thing is at least slippery because terrible crimes against humanity have been carried out in Ukraine. A man's sense of justice boils, and he says that this cannot be tolerated, and it really needs to be addressed, and this cannot be tolerated. But nevertheless, throwing those words at me is the consequence of political public speaking, such as the fear of anti-Semitism. It doesn't mean anything anymore, because everyone's been told whether they had anything to do with it or not. In fact, a cynicism was committed at one of the UN's last meetings that the United Nations Ambassador to the United Nations, referring to a Swedish example, brought Hungary to the bench of the accused, and then was corrected by, oh, I'm sorry, it was Sweden. They didn't give us the floor, and they didn't say the word "Hungary" in the public debate, but later they pulled the word "Hungary" out. But this inflames these concepts to such an extent, which is dangerous, because we all know how the story of the little rooster ended: when the fox came, no one cared. The fox is coming. We need to see what's happening in Ukraine. There it is, the followers of the worst ideas are fighting there, just yet the swastika has not been drawn, but this other symbol, which is also controversial, and the Bandera is a legitimate national hero. So we are reaching points that can basically undermine our moral order based on European civilizational, Christian traditions. I thought of this in terms of trust because I am convinced that Article 5 and the whole NATO will last as long as we believe Portuguese soldiers will come here if there is trouble, and we are willing to go to Norway, the northern border, and fight against the Russians if this happens; and this is a serious problem. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Is there a time limit?
u2023-03-01-78	Yeah.
u2023-03-01-79	So I would just like to say in closing that the Hungarian parliamentary delegation or the Fidesz delegation is going to be friends and to clarify the misunderstandings in Sweden and Finland. By the way, it can be said that we are connected with the Finns by military friendship, as 25 thousand Hungarian volunteers volunteered and thousands fought alongside Finland during the winter war against the Russians, and then in Hungary a collection was launched in which Albert Szent-Györgyi offered the Nobel Prize, the medal and the prize to help the Finns. So it's not true at all that we can't be counted on, but we refuse to run a race. We refuse to run a race! It's true what we're doing right now. It's not up to us to hire Sweden and Finland. We're not gonna be the last, that's for sure. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-03-01-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Fazekas, Fidesz Group. Congressman, please.
u2023-03-01-81	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, We have a very important topic ahead of us, as NATO enlargement is one of the most important diplomatic tasks of this year, due to its weight, its importance. The Fidesz fraction supports Sweden and Finland's admission to NATO, and has never said anything else in this matter. But I am convinced that before NATO accession, where there is a strong ally relationship, there are some things that need to be clarified. It does not hurt to clarify issues that I will refer to, and which are at least controversial opinions on Hungary, and can even be seen as an attack on Hungary. But before I get to that point, I think that, since several people here from the opposition side have challenged the timing of the agenda, I would like to say that Hungary is a sovereign country. The Hungarian Parliament is the legislative body of this sovereign country, and it negotiates any agenda when it puts it on the agenda, and it is not enough that one of the smallest parties in Parliament, the MSZP, is dissatisfied with it. I think the Parliament made the right decision when it now put this issue on the agenda. I would be careful with cases in this case and with positions such as, how can I say, a sweaty adjustment of some of the opposition's parties, as if it were some kind of horse racing, as if some people were fighting for some reward for money from the dollar-left representatives, why the Parliament did not accept the accession last week, a month ago or even in the summer. I am convinced that the Hungarian interest is that this subject should be discussed thoroughly and that we should clarify all the points of debate that can be discussed with these countries, and even in here, within the walls of Parliament, including the Members and factions present here. Dear Parliament, It also relates to the fact that Szabó Timea, who, as usual, is not here when they reflect on what he has said, uses dog duty and patriotic duty and such words. I don't think dog duty can be interpreted in this context, but patriotic duty can. What is a patriotic duty? It is in Hungary's interests that we represent Hungary, and it is in Hungary's interest that a military alliance in which we are strengthen a defence alliance, even if certain geopolitical realities need to be taken into account, since NATO does not currently have a common land border of 1300 kilometres with Russia. I remember that there is no much smaller common border on land, and now there will be, and in a forested area or in an Arctic area, which makes a lot of things rethink. My fellow Member, Mr Lajos Kósa, in the analogy of my dear friend, the Portuguese army or the Hungarian army must also be prepared to stand in virtually foreign and unknown terrain and conditions. Dear Parliament, It follows that this House is not obliged to accept, by the way, the proposal that is before us. A sovereign decision and we will be able to accept and support it according to Hungarian interests. Dear Parliament, There are some things that I would like to draw attention to separately. Congressman Brenner Koloman spoke of our Swedish and Finnish friends. Well, it would be nice if you said some Swedish and Finnish friends, because I don't see them standing up for us. Here is a whole volume of criticism about Hungary, which my fellow Members have already said, but I do not see that, let us say, Swedish or Finnish politicians have taken such a strong stand in Hungary's defence. This is one of the things that has already been mentioned, but it certainly deserves attention to the fact that what is happening in Hungary in family policy is alarming. I quote from this: - Now Orbán wants to create more Hungarian children. Politics has reeked of the thirties, and as a right-wing populist, it must be clouded by the consequences of this kind of policy for the independence that women struggled for. It is obvious that Hungarian family policy is a complete misinterpretation. But what is it that hurts in this case? To have more Hungarian children? What is racial policy in this, or what does this remind you of the politics of the '30s? This is said, by the way, in countries such as Sweden, where there is a very serious family support system. The social system is already so strong in the Scandinavian states, Sweden and Finland, it can rely on a financial background that I think we can only envy. In many ways, the Hungarian government's family policy also carries this pattern. That's why this attack is incomprehensible. Here more people from the other side referred to such patriotism and patriotism. Well, the real patriot who calls for such and similar attacks on the Hungarian government and Hungary! This must be protested, and we must ask ourselves to have Swedish politicians speak about Hungary in such a tone. [[15.30]] Clearly, Swedish history is a instructive history. Sweden was neutral during both world wars; it made huge exports to the axis powers, by the way. So prosperity has such a precedent in Sweden; for gold, the Third Reich was carried out until the last moment by the Swedes. Dear Parliament, Another problem that has been raised is the so-called corruption charges. It was quite interesting for the representatives of the dollar-left to listen to this corruption charge, as well as the views of the Brussels people, where law enforcement agencies are constantly making arrests. There is hardly any day before we are aware that another left-wing or liberal representative is going to be in the public eye. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: from Klára Dobrev's faction! Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes. Dr. Tamás Bellozó: József Szájer?]] Yeah, from Clara Dobrev's faction, for example. There are common photos of affected representatives from across the street. So I believe that this corruption charge, at least, cannot be accounted for as a complete fact on your part. Just sweep me into the area that belongs to you, there's a lot of problems and problems there. It is also desirable that, according to one of the Swedish research institutions, Hungary has now been classified as the first EU country where there is not a liberal democracy, but an authoritarian system. I do not know why this system is authoritarian, when there are elections here, there have been elections and there will be elections, and there the vast majority of Hungarian people have voted alongside the Fidesz-KDNP, we have sworn to the law, the laws are respected and enforced. So the fact that this would not be a liberal democracy is not even acceptable to the Swedes, and the Finns do not have a good number of such materials, which are more part of the political struggle. Dear Parliament, That is why it is necessary to clarify here that if Sweden and Finland are now integrated into a federal system of which we are a member, so that cooperation based on trust can be, otherwise, there can be no real benefits to this cooperation, we will just carry these tensions with us. This must be resolved so that the members of the Hungarian Parliament can vote calmly and with a clear conscience in favour of accession. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-03-01-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the pre-notification speeches, and now we are going to take the floor in the normal time frame. I give the floor to Congresswoman Agnes Vadai, DK Group.
u2023-03-01-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, You have made it clear that you can negotiate this whenever you want, with the content you want, you said you can do whatever you want. That's what several of your congressmen said. Congressman Tilki was the first perhaps, and then their visiting ex-minister was the second. This could be an attitude to this issue, so make no mistake. So you can decide that we will vote for it at some point in Parliament, because I assume that sooner or later you will vote for Finland and Sweden's accession to NATO. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Aren't you?]] And sooner or later, we will come to the point that Finland and Sweden will obviously become members of NATO institutionally and legally. I think that's the first time you'll have to face representatives of Finland and Sweden, but not just with them, but with all our allies. What you have spoken here today, my fellow Members, and not the lead speakers, but the post-Joining visiting colleague, the conte colleague, the colleague representing the rural people, was indeed the lowest of this debate. We can have discussions about how we value security. We have been listening to it for years at every parliamentary meeting, every press conference that we are traitors to the country. That hasn't been said today, but sooner or later, that's gonna happen, so how do I put it? We've recorded that this is a constantly recurring topo for Fidesz-KDNP colleagues. But the fact that in such an important case, two of our North allies, with whom we are otherwise working in Hungary, are in defence cooperation, so you should speak, is quite amazing! You're confusing the season with the guy, by the way. So these politicians never talked about Hungarian citizens and not Hungary en bloc. These politicians were talking about you, fellow Members. So I challenge you to wash yourselves with me! I resent it. [[Intercoms in the pro-government benches.]] And I ask that the Hungarian government will break the rule of law and democratic values! And I resent the fact that thanks to the activities of the Hungarian government in the European Union and NATO, we are in a position of shame where no one else is! And I challenge myself that the V4 cooperation has been shattered, and now your greatest ally, the Poles, is separate from you! I resent it. And I also ask myself that these things, which have now been said here, have not been told once in the last seven months either at the Foreign Affairs Committee or at the Defence Committee or at the House Committee. You have always lied about the accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO. They've been lying all along. They've come up with some pretty good reasons. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that if you have a debate with Finland and Sweden over the various comments, there is no problem. [[Lajos Kósa: Isn't that two minutes long? Nacsa Lawrence: No!]] Then it's possible to talk about it. There's a way. I would like to inform Lajos Kósa that his speech had a time limit. Mine has one, too, but mine hasn't expired yet, but hers is over. You should know the house rules, Congressman, and then you wouldn't be so desperate to see why I'm talking, so I can talk at all. It's a normal speech, and I'm gonna stick to the time frame at the end of it. So, in return, you can see that you are members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Homeland Security and Police, and Mr Nacsa, who is responsible for religious tourism, and I now see that the visiting Member is the one who is interested in this matter. What if we had held joint committee meetings on this issue earlier? Let me get this straight. And what if we had invited the ambassadors to these joint committee meetings anyway? What if it had been formed or approved as a friendly school between the North European states and Hungary, and we would have talked through the friendly department? What if, by the way, we had been having these discussions at the NATO, Councilman Europe and other parliamentary assemblies I mentioned earlier? Fellow Members! I understand that you are not in the mood to deal with this matter. And I also understand that there are some of you who are obviously on Putin's side. [[Nacsa Lawrence: There is no such thing!]] That's your right. I don't really care about that, and I'm gonna have to deal with that someday. And I would like to tell Lajos Kósa that those who rape women and children in war are called war criminals under the Geneva Convention. [[Lajos Kósa: If the court finds out that.]] And those of these soldiers... [[Intercoms in the benches of Fidesz.]] No! Here's to reading the Geneva Convention, Congressman. I know we haven't done this kind of work since the caps, but you have to read these conventions. Those who rape women and children in war are war criminals. They commit crimes against humanity. Consult the Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman sitting next to you, and you will confirm that. But once again, if you have doubts and disputes on these issues, there have been countless forums in the last seven months where we could have discussed this. The problem, my fellow Members, is that, until last week, these demands have not been raised once. So all along, the seven months have been lied about the accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO. I would like to ask Mr Tilki not to speak on behalf of the rural people, because there are many rural people who disagree with you, and frankly, neither do I. [[Intercoms in the benches of Fidesz.]] [[Intercoms in the benches of Fidesz.]] You literally said it was the country people. I do not agree with this, and frankly, I would also like to make it clear that if I were to consult on the issue of peace, I would certainly not consult the Fidesz-KDNP party factions. For the past 12 years, all you've said is that you've waged a war in your own country with the groups you've targeted. That's what they did! You have spoken of a struggle for freedom, from Brussels to where you have encountered only democratic values. (Intercoms in the benches of Fidesz. ) This has nothing to do with NATO. I would like to say to Commission President Lajos Kósa that I miss those committee meetings... He gave me a conte here, which, I think, gave me a little bit of a kick-ass about the whole boring debate. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] You are absolutely right about trust, but I also suggest that you read Article 5 of the Washington Treaty and perhaps the whole contract, and then you will be aware of the procedure under Article 5. [[15.40]] You'll know that because you clearly didn't read this. I agree. Don't lose your senses. Someone has nothing left to leave, but please, Mr. President of the Commission, do not lose your senses. Don't come with these extremely low-quality texts, don't come here with Miklós Horthy, I ask you very nicely, because Congressman Lajos Kósa has come to the point of quoting Miklós Horthy's impeachment or failure to hold him accountable for the expansion of NATO. I would like to say this: this country, this Parliament, will vote for the accession of these two countries at the end of the day. Your Prime Minister supports it, and apparently those who deal with these issues are in favour of it, and of course, some of the speeches by its representatives have to be thrown in, which can be used for a slightly different electoral round. And we need to clear things up, clear things up. The most important question that needs to be clarified is why you are acting this way with NATO, the alliance that represents a guarantee of Hungary's security. Why, why have they been doing this for months? Tell me, fellow Members. Last year, around February, the part of the public that is open to this, the citizens of Hungary, against NATO, has been systematically tuned with ambiguous and even often anti- NATO sentences. They systematically undermine Hungary's credibility in NATO, in favour of the European Union, and systematically oppose NATO. My fellow Members, your prime minister is sitting in NATO, your Secretary of State sitting in NATO. By the way, I just met him when he was on his way there, and your defense minister is going to NATO. You have all the information. What is it you don't share with us, what we should know about NATO, which is why you've been acting like this since Vladimir Putin attacked Ukraine? I think that's a question that needs to be cleared up sooner or later. Why are you attacking the NATO membership of Hungary? [[Lajos Kósa: Who's attacking him? Agi, don't talk nonsense.]] Why are you attacking and delaying the accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO? I'm sure the Speaker is watching how nicely the conte representative yells to me, and we'll record that in the minutes. I would like to say to President Kósa that he has not been very serious since his story about the cap, but I have been following what you said. It did not contain an intact, meaningful sentence about NATO accession, but there were a lot of material errors that were not for this debate. If you need clarification on NATO, I suggest that you contact Mr Zsolt Németh, Member Mihály Balla, Member of the Council, Mr Barna Pál Zsigmond. But if they don't help me, I would be very happy to explain to you at a time, for example, what the Washington Treaty means, what NATO's organizational operation means, and, frankly, I would be very happy to show you and you specifically the sentences that have been constantly and systematically tuned against NATO. Your Prime Minister, your former Minister of Defence and the Chief of Staff, the current Chief of Staff, who, we don't know how long he will be Chief of Staff, has also said sentences from last April onwards that were ambiguous and that are not acceptable for a NATO country. If you have an argument with the other NATO member states, please attend the North Atlantic Council meeting, where you would like to talk to these colleagues. It may have been you, but it may be the government commissioner responsible for religious tourism, as I understand it, I'm sorry, I might quote you wrong, Congressman Nacsa. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Bad, but whatever.]] It doesn't matter, because it is a non-existent programme, but it is possible to spend a lot of money on it, Mr Nacsa said, but I am really uncertain now that, in fact, this delegation to Finland and Sweden, the main purpose of inviting themselves, is to talk, but this is not related to the question of NATO accession. That's how I remember one of them, I don't know which one of them, but that's what he said. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: I told you, but I didn't say that.]] Yeah, but one of them... That's not what you said then, but another Member made a statement to that effect. I suggest that if you want to go, you can go anywhere, do whatever you want, that's what Attila Tilki and your viewing man have explained, so that you can do anything. Make sure you do it. Make sure there's no mistake. I therefore suggest that you do so whenever you want, but do not link these two things to ratification of NATO accession. I think next week will be an excellent day for this vote to be held on Monday. I have not seen or heard any reason why the accession of Sweden and Finland would not comply with the conditions laid down. I have not seen or heard any reason why you would have said that the democratic arrangement of these two countries would be a problem, or that your involvement in military operations or your military power would be a problem, and not just a few of you have claimed and stressed that NATO will win a great deal militaryly with these two countries. If NATO wins much militaryly, then this means that Hungary's security guarantee will also increase. There is no horse racing on this issue, but apparently, if there were a horse, then that horse, ours, is probably going back, rather than forward. Hungary is indeed a sovereign country, and it can negotiate whatever it wants, and Mr Tilki, I am sorry, I must say that I mentioned a bird convention to you because the Hungarian Parliament has discussed a lot of things over the past period, which was thought to be much more important than the accession to NATO in Finland and Sweden. I think that international conventions on the avoidance of double taxation and international agreements on wild geese, wild geese and wild birds are important and should not be misunderstood, but at a time when people are dying in our neighbourhood due to Russian aggression, crimes against humanity are committed, and a brutal military and political machine is launched against a neighbouring sovereign country, breaking all the existing rules, perhaps a little more important than wild geese is that the military alliance in which Hungary is a full member should be further strengthened. The presence of Finland and Sweden in NATO, its full membership in NATO will strengthen NATO, and with it will strengthen Hungary's security. And once again, let me remind you of one thing: Hungary's security guarantee system is based on three pillars: the Hungarian Defence Service, the commitment of citizens to patriotism and NATO. If any of the elements are tilted, this guarantee system is off the charts. You are systematically trying to knock out the first element a little bit, recently with the de- NATO and the dismissal of soldiers, and also the second element, when the part of the country that does not vote for you is not considered patriots and the third part of it, when the NATO membership of Hungary has been systematically attacked in the last year through their propaganda buddies. I'd like to ask you not to continue this journey. If we all agree here that Finland and Sweden are fit to join NATO, then I see no obstacle to voting on this as soon as possible, even next week. Thank you very much.
u2023-03-01-84	Thank you. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Tilki, Fidesz Group, in a normal time frame.
u2023-03-01-85	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I also quoted Confucius in the previous speech, so let me begin with a Confucius:. The incoherence leads to unbridledness. The inexorable hatred leads to unbridledness. I live my life with political palettes, but I don't hate them. I would like to say that, unlike you, who could not win a single district, I won my constituency for the fifth time. But, God, that's how it turned out. But I still wouldn't qualify you for this type of dehonestic adjective. [[15.50]] I was particularly pleased that you were thinking that ornithologists might be able to hit you or you, because it is now 50th anniversary that the first national park has been established in Hungary, and bird-watching civil society takes it as an insult to the likeness of wild geese, because it is one of the most important questions for them. But we're used to you. On the other hand, I would like to ask you to do one thing: talk about credibility, ask us for credibility, and how did you talk about the events of 1956? You, who should think about who was sitting there when you joined your predecessor's party. Wasn't that where Gyula Horn, who was responsible for retaliation, sat? And now you're the great champion of freedom. He's talking about defense. I was a soldier. I wasn't Secretary of State, you did, but trust me, we know the system. So it's the right wisdom that you can't expect, but maybe you could ask him not to be so unruly. And hate sits on a man's face. We live in peace, the country, the people you feel sorry for. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-01-86	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the KDNP Group, in a normal time frame. Here you go.
u2023-03-01-87	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I am also inspired by Agnes Vadai, especially by his speech now. Congresswoman wants to set a date for the vote on ratification. We have seen many times that opposition representatives ignore house rules, but there is an institution called this, and the House Rule tells us what the sections are in the debate on a bill, and if there is an amendment, there is a detailed debate section in the committee. And I understand the Congresswoman, that she thinks that she is above the rules, didn't we, under the Gyurcsány government, that the Gyurcsány government thought that she was above the law and could do anything, but there is a house rule, a honourable Member, and we want to do it according to the house rules. Because in the end, someone will attack the NATO accession that we have supported, that we did not accept it in accordance with Hungarian law, in a house-based manner. So that is the case, Madam honourable Member, that house rules should be respected. I resent that we have mentioned and done anything about NATO membership. We are proud members of NATO, we support NATO, we imagine Hungary's security system and future in NATO, NATO is our federal system, and that is why we perform, for example, the 2-percent NATO expectation, which is why Hungarian soldiers are taking part in NATO missions risking their lives and their security. They are being abused by the congresswoman when you claim that we are carrying on some sort of anti- NATO narrative. You are putting soldiers who are now in a precarious position, for example, on a mission and putting their security at risk for a great common goal, such as peace, honourable Member. So I'm asking you to stop this. Who can represent the voice of the people of the country, honourable Member: you got twenty-two percent at one time in Karcagon, and my fellow Member won 68 percent in your constituency. So who has the greater legitimacy to speak for the people of the country, my problem is that the electorate has decided that. But let's see, since you've been joking about my role as a government, what is your role as a shadow government, honourable Member. You're the shadow minister of the shadow government. Shadow government, shadow defense government, Congresswoman. Let's look at what happened in the Gyurcsány-Vadai-era at the Hungarian Defence Office, fellow Members, because we are talking here about NATO enlargement... And we agree in one sentence, honourable Member, in the third pillar, what you said at the end of your speech, the Hungarian Defence Office, the Hungarian people who are patriotic and NATO. We agree on that. You tried to kick all three of them out of the Hungarian people during their government. patriotism has been wiped out of the Hungarian people, and the "dare to be small" has been continued, we should not be proud of being Hungarians, we should walk with our heads down. What were they doing in the army? During the left-wing government, in the Gyurcsány-Vadai-era at the Hungarian Defence Office between 2002 and 2010, the number of defences decreased by 17 thousand. As a shadow defense minister, you spoke of NATO accession, when you weakened one of NATO's military forces, the Hungarian Defence Forces during your administration, you were the defense secretary when the number of defense officers decreased by 17,000. They sold nearly 50,000 military equipment, including handguns, protective equipment and uniforms, 50,000. Between 2002 and 2010, the demise of the military was also due to the withdrawal of 500 tracked combat vehicles from use, and most of them sold 140 artillery devices and donated 77 T-72 tanks. After barely ten years of use, these tanks were refurbished into Iraq as a gift, which ended up in the Islamic State. That was the end of the great humanitarian operation. Self-propelled artillery devices were sold for a fraction of the market price at that time, essentially for the price of the metal in them, but now in the terrible war that is happening next door, they are used 15 years later, honourable Member. Part of the left-wing Vadai amok run was the elimination of two shooting squadrons, a gunnery brigade and an anti-aircraft missile regiment. And of course, they did not spare the hinterland: they closed down the military hospital in Pécs and sold the properties of the János Bólyai Military Technical College. By 2010, thanks to the Gyurcsány-Vadai activity, the defence had a minimum defence force, because your defence policy was irresponsible, based on austerity and bleeding, honourable Member. That's the thing. And let us face it if Hungary does not have a civil, Christian democratic government on a national basis, which devotes itself to the development of forces, which considers it important to the development of the Hungarian Defence Forces, which pursues a patriotic policy, and which is a respected member of NATO, because, honourable Member, what you are saying is very, very rude, because Hungary is an esteemed member of NATO, and wishes to remain so. And the alternative, if it weren't for this civil, Christian Democrat, national government, would be the Minister of Defence, honourable Member, the one who reduced the number of defenses by 17,000 and sold our fighting assets for a fraction of the market price. Then how do we talk about Hungary's safety? How does he talk about a triple pillar? Well, the problem is, you guys wanted to kick all three legs out of three. That is the very big problem, honourable Member. And you can say here that international journalists will quote you, who will be monitoring this debate, that we will then be conducting anti- NATO rhetoric. No! You were at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: For a long time.]] We were there, you were there in numerous committee meetings, you were here in Parliament when we discussed the proposals concerning the Hungarian Defence Service. He was here, and we argued here for nights when we debated his involvement in NATO missions, and on many occasions. And there were common points, and we could agree on that. We could agree with the Kosovo peace mission and so on. We could agree with these things. There was a debate when we evaluated or evaluated the withdrawal from Afghanistan, not as NATO missions, but the failure of the Malian mission, essentially its failure. The fact is, honourable Member, that the paper can handle everything, and you will cut it out on your Facebook page in the video, that you say that we do not support it, and that we are conducting anti- NATO rhetoric, but that is not true. We are committed NATO partners, we are allies who do everything at NATO summits, at the Parliamentary Assembly, at committee meetings or at any event to maintain, strengthen and expand NATO. That is what we are working for, honourable Member. The fact that you're trying to drive a wedge into this, and you're trying to use sound propaganda in this directly in front of the international public, in some way, to frame your own country, I think it goes beyond the limits. And yes, honourable Member, the Swedes and the Finns, unfortunately, and not the whole Swedish people and not the whole Finnish people, of course, certain Swedish politicians and certain Finnish politicians also attacked the Hungarian people, honourable Member, and said that the people who do not support illegal immigration should not receive money in the current budget cycle. The Hungarians rejected illegal immigration and compulsory quotas by an overwhelming majority, and the Swedish Secretary of State told them not to receive any money at the time. And, yes, they also made dehonesting remarks about the Hungarian nation. We have a job obligation to tolerate, I don't know, Swedish and DK, any abuse, but they also attacked the Hungarian nation, honourable Member. That's worth clearing up. And regardless of all that, and despite all that, we think that it is worth opening a new paper, it is worth talking to each other in partnership, in alliance, in the spirit of mutual respect. It is easier to achieve common goals if they do not lecture us and insult us, but give us what we honor others. And that is why we support the accession of Sweden and Finland to NATO, honourable Member. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-01-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász, KDNP Group. [[16.00]]
u2023-03-01-89	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to associate with my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, and since my fellow Member, Ágnes Vadai, and Mr Brenner Koloman's fake conservative right-wing politician have stood up for the Swedish and Finnish politicians who, in their opinion, are only attacking the Hungarian government and not the Hungarian people or Hungary, I would like to say the two or three names who attacked Hungary in general and specifically. One of the Eero Heinäluoma, a Finnish social democrat, is an anti-democrat, Hungary and Poland. . Petri Sarvamaa is a Finnish Member of the European Parliament:. Hungary should not receive EU funds as it is. . Karin Karlsbro Swedish liberal representative:. Hungary, if you do not comply with the rules of the game, let the procedure in Article 7 also begin against Hungary. And last but not least, because I could list the Swedish and Finnish politicians who attacked Hungary in general, not the Hungarian government, because it is one thing to attack the Hungarian government, criticism is part of politics, but to attack the Hungarian people and Hungary as a political product, like Poland, the Swedish left-wing representative Malin Björg is completely unacceptable: in Hungary, they are crushing everything that means democracy and the rule of law. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I think that this is the fundamental problem and one of the most important messages of today's debate is that, despite all of this, above all, politicians who are so personal and attacking Hungary as a political product [[Sic!]] We support the accession of these two countries to NATO. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-01-90	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Agnes of Vadai in two minutes. You have the floor, please.
u2023-03-01-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, What you're doing is getting really ridiculous. Mr Tilki's personal resentment is quite shocking, but I am used to it, because he does it regularly at the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and he is offended. What I can tell you is, if you can't handle the tension here, ask your faction not to have to do any more of these tasks. Yes, it was more important to have an international convention that dealt with birds than the accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO. There's no need to be offended, it's a matter of fact, it's true. I do not dispute the Member's right to talk about rural people, but in no way to speak on behalf of all rural people, because there are rural people who disagree with him at all. I understand this tension, and I understand that it is difficult for you to face the fact that we are constantly making it clear that what you have done in the last year is undermining Hungary's authority and ally loyalty in NATO, but you are doing so, Congressman. So you can come with the Gyurcsány-Vadai-era and I don't know what kind of texts I can tell you to study the period 2002-2010. Obviously you didn't forget, but you forgot to say it here, because it's part of politics that Hungary hasn't had a military service in peace-time since 2004. You also forgot to tell me that those T-72 tanks came to the Islamic State during your administration, and I didn't say that in the last debate, because you read the same speech you said earlier, and I didn't say it was your fault. Let us get back, and I would like to say to Mrs Hajnalka Juhász that you have also said things to other countries that these Members have said. These questions could have been discussed in the last seven months. They didn't want to discuss it, and now they've figured out that it's gonna be possible to sew it back into the Finns and Swedes' necks, and now you're going to tell them that you're going to sit up on those emotions. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] You do not rise above anything, you are opposed to NATO enlargement, it is quite obvious, you are doing everything you can to ensure that this does not happen, and you are systematically undermining Hungary's position in NATO. It's a shame! Thank you very much.
u2023-03-01-92	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kósa in a two-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-03-01-93	Mr. President. Dear House, My dear fellow Vadai. I don't want you to have any sense of absence. Indeed, you are simply traitors. I'll tell you why. The person who did what you, namely, remember, Ferenc Gyurcsány was the Prime Minister, György Szilvásy was the Minister of Secret Services: they took themselves and handed over the personnel of the entire Hungarian National Security Service to a Bulgarian front company set up by the Russians at Putin, the Russian President so-called psychic or psychological review. What if it's not treason? ! The Russians were given the full list of Hungarian service names. So much for who otherwise provides the Russians with any kind of data that basically affects the security of the Hungarian nation. For the record, we were already members of NATO, so this raises questions about NATO: how reliable is a partner who provides data from his own national security service to the Russians just like that? No reason. That's what you did. It's simple, factual treason. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-01-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work in a normal time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Fazekas, Fidesz Group.
u2023-03-01-95	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I think it is very talkative that, on this important issue, the left-wing opposition is not present, and Mrs Vadai has committed herself to representing all of them. If you can no longer represent the inhabitants who have never been elected, you will act on behalf of your fellow Members. I'll talk about that later. I feel addressed, but I do not want to argue with the style of former Secretary of State Ágnes Vadai; I do not want to argue with his lack of style; I just want to say that you, Madam honourable Member, have no sense of humor. So I think a little more training there wouldn't hurt. Dear Parliament, As for the comment, I was surprised to hear that there are forums that I heard correctly? , which is more competent in the case of NATO accession than the Parliament, at least that is what has been said. Maybe that's not what the congresswoman was trying to say, but let's be precise. I think that Parliament is the current forum, every preliminary meeting, cabinet meeting, bilateral meeting, versatile and the rest, but the place for this debate is in the Hungarian Parliament, because the Hungarian Parliament decides on international treaties, so I think it is a fundamental thing. It is a fundamental thing even if the congresswoman does not like it, but she does not like a lot of things. Dear Parliament, The second is that it was said here that the government would oppose NATO membership or Fidesz-KDNP, a ignominious lie and untruth. I don't think such a statement can be made even by the opposition. I would like to reject what Agnes Vadai said about Attila Tilki, my colleague. He represents the countryside, for example, that rural area. He was elected by 68 percent. According to Hungarian constitutional regulations, he is the representative of that region, and we do undertake and do not deny the people of the country, unlike you. In closing, perhaps it should be put here that such combat heat and enthusiasm might even be sympathetic if it were not accompanied by some quite strong bias on all the subjects to which the Member has spoken. I do not want to say this as a rating; I would just like to tell you, perhaps, if you had forgotten, in the midst of great confidence, that 2002: you did not win in parliamentary elections; 2006: you did not win; you did not win in 2010. In 2010, he ran for mayor Tiszafüreden in the municipal elections, and he didn't win there either. He started at Esztergom twice, he didn't win there either. You have never been elected by the Hungarian people, the rurals. What's with all the confidence, Congresswoman? ! Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-01-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work in a normal time frame. I give the floor to Congresswoman Agnes of Vada.
u2023-03-01-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, There's been some misunderstanding. I do not dispute Mr Attila Tilki's right to speak in the Hungarian Parliament. I've never even argued that he should speak for his constituents. Don't speak for the people of the country. I don't speak for the country people either, but I'm from the country. [[16.10]] And obviously no one can speak for the Hungarians in general. You also like to confuse the Hungarian government with Hungary. This, by the way, is the big problem at the moment, I think, with regard to the accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO. Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, the visiting Member, has made numerous quotes from Finnish and Swedish Members in the last few hours. These sentences were about the Hungarian government, en bloc about the Hungarian government, not Hungary, not the citizens of Hungary, the Hungarian government. The Hungarian government's activities have been criticised. [[Dr. Hajnalka Juhász: No...]] As the procedure under Article 7 was initiated because the Hungarian government ignored the fundamental rule of law. I resent that when the Hungarian government is confused with Hungarian citizens at home and abroad, I resent that very much. It is no coincidence that I said in my speech as the lead speaker that the citizens of Hungary support NATO and support NATO enlargement. The Hungarian government is the one who is doing everything in its power to delay this ratification. I understand who, when and how many times I've been elected. In fact, I was on a platform with Viktor Orbán, who was never elected as an individual representative in his life, always got into the list. It's embarrassing to me that, at least in this platform, and I hope nothing else, but that we're on the same platform, but that's factual. In this case, I can say that obviously the current Prime Minister can't talk about anything here, and by the time he's so confident, he's never been elected in a single person, he's always been on a list. I suggest that we not go in this direction with these issues, NATO accession, but rather move in the direction of how important it is that the three elements of the Hungarian security guarantee system really be implemented and balanced. Then let's look at these three guarantee elements, in which I saw for the first time that the pro-government representatives were broadly in agreement. I'd like to start with the second element, because I believe in patriotism, even if Lajos Kósa stands up here and says I'm a traitor. [[Intruder from the benches of the governing parties: Really!]] What I can tell you is that if we follow his logic about the crimes against humanity, I can tell you that no court has ever convicted any of us of crimes against the state, or at least not me or any of my party, so if we follow the logic that you represented, then you're obviously lying. And by the way, what I can tell you is that what you're saying about me, that I'm a traitor, I'm simply questioning it. Who do you think you are? Who? ! Is it because you're sitting in a committee chair? Well, who? ! That you're saying here about me and a lot of other congressmen and the voters behind us that we're traitors to the country? How, then, do voters who do not vote for you, and are not few, expect this very noble and important, patriotic citizen, well, obligation, because they actually accept an obligation, but an important attitude, the protection of the country? What do you think? They see you there, people like you who say I'm a traitor. And the other one says I'm not from the country, and I forget I'm from the country. Who are you? ! Who are you to stand up here and say such sentences when it comes to the accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO; how do they speak on behalf of rural people; how they betray others? What do they think they are? For what and for whom? ! It is quite outrageous, I think, and we can be criticized, that it is possible to put us on a platform with Viktor Orbán in terms of elections, to talk here about the Gyurcsány-Vadai axis, but I think, fellow Members, that if this tone does not end, it will eventually end very badly within the country. When you talk about me being a traitor, you talk about the voters behind us. And the voters behind us! We don't have to agree, we don't have to think the same thing about the world. We don't have to think the same thing about NATO accession, but we need to take away the opportunity from me and get rid of it that I love my country, but I love it differently than you do, and I'm not willing to love it the way you do, and I'm not willing to think about everything you think, and I'm a traitor, and I'm asking myself this! And I also challenge myself on behalf of the other opposition representatives who are not here right now! By the way, there's not much more of you. By the way, I do not know how much their presence has contributed to clarifying NATO issues here in recent years. Because, as Congressman Nacsa says here, no matter how many times he stands up here in Parliament and says that we are good members of NATO, and I am putting the security of the soldiers at risk when I talk about systematically undermining the authority of Hungary, I can tell you that the authority of Hungarian soldiers and indeed the activities of Hungarian soldiers have compensated for the loss of authority that we suffered in NATO due to their political activities. Many of the Hungarian soldiers have just been dismissed by your minister, and they have done their job with honor; they have served in missions, spoken language, socialized in NATO. It's probably their main crime, because they like to appoint people who teach at an academy connected to Fidesz these days. And you can see that those within the Hungarian Defense will also gain influence by those whose primary love for Fidesz is not for the country. We see this, at least two within the Hungarian Defence Forces, who have a significant influence on the operation and activities of the Hungarian Defence Forces. And the third of the three elements is NATO. Viktor Orbán, Tibor Benkő has systematically, day after day, undermined Hungary's authority and allied loyalty in NATO from last year. He systematically poisoned domestic public opinion through propagandaists, their propaganda friends. The Prime Minister's foreign policy director or director or political director, I can no longer follow these positions, he spoke about it at a private event in Orbán, both of them... made it clear to the Prime Minister that you do not wish to belong to a Washington-led bloc. They made it clear that they do not want to cooperate with the free world in this way, it is quite obvious. You can say this 20 times, Congressman, that we are good members of NATO. I think there are some Hungarians who are good members of NATO, that's for sure. The Hungarian soldiers, who did their job with honor, and of whom you have now ordered them back from NATO positions in this Stalin cleansing, must have done their job well. But what you have done politically in this alliance is simply undermining Hungary's authority, and you should know that, because you are sitting in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and you are hearing those criticisms with me, or you may already have deaf ears for these criticisms, which are worth listening to. You can be lonely in Brussels, fellow Members, but you cannot be in NATO. I can't! There we need allies, friends, and not because of what Lajos Kósa says, because Article 5 makes it clear that if he is a member of this alliance, this alliance, if he is attacked and asks, will protect him, because that is what this defense alliance is all about. But we're still not gonna make it without friends. And thanks to your activities, the Hungarian government is terribly lonely within NATO. Then, while we've been talking about European Union customs, I can tell you who spends their solitude: someone slides down gutters and someone deals in their great loneliness to try to make this relationship better. Well, who's got what-- someone's gutters, somebody's got a trial. The accession of Finland and Sweden is an outstanding NATO, Finnish-Swedish and Emminent Hungarian interest. I believe that this matter must be dealt with as quickly as possible. [[16.20]] You have had seven months to clarify these issues. The pro-government representatives are right, it is not me and Mr Harangozó who will decide when to put it on the agenda. You will put it on the agenda, as you say, when and when it pleases you. And it is our right to say that we believe that this attitude is wrong in this situation even in times of peace. In a situation where Russia has attacked Ukraine and is committing crimes and acts in Ukraine that fall under the category of war crimes, it is expressly wrong. I would therefore like to propose, fellow Members, that, if necessary, that the Committee on Defence and Police meet together with the Committee on Foreign Affairs, whether on weekends or on Monday morning, and that the Committee on European Affairs, whatever. I would just like to draw attention to these legitimate committees of the Parliament, which can organise such meetings, to those who would be deceived by what is the task of a committee. Let us clarify these questions, if necessary, you will call the ambassadors of the two countries concerned and we will decide on this matter as soon as possible. I do not know that they are trying to ask someone to submit an amendment so that it can be drawn up as long as possible. But you have said that you support the accession of Finland and Sweden. If that is so, if that can be believed because nothing can be believed in you, then I do not think that any way that is the path of pro-government representatives can clarify any issue. For the next week, you will be able to see the thorn in you without a trip, to clear the pain with these Members. You have to call them, you have to talk to them, you have to discuss it, if it's so painful for you to add, it's gonna take a little more to solve your foundation, so that the rule of law and your corruption behavior will change, but that's another thing, and let's settle this once and for all. Because, fellow Members, accession to Finland and Sweden to NATO is important not only in the current war situation when Russia is attacking Ukraine aggressively, but also in terms of future NATO enlargement. Let us not forget that there is a common interest in this, just as there is a common interest in ensuring that Euroatlantic enlargement, the European Union, is carried out as soon as possible. So I think that the sentences here have consequences not only for Finland and Sweden, but also for the next enlargements of NATO and the European Union. That is why I propose that, if there is such a question, you should call on the relevant Members today in the world of the Internet, discuss this with them, and then next week I think that we can vote on this with the utmost calmness possible. The House Committee has not yet met, the agenda can be amended at any time, not only by Thursday, but by Monday, I think we can close this issue once and for all. Thank you very much.
u2023-03-01-98	Thank you. Dear Parliament, In a normal time frame, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kósa. Here you go.
u2023-03-01-99	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I do not know how to talk about NATO expansion and the problems reported by the Member States to be recruited, perhaps difficulties, or only in the voice of naked hatred that Agnes Vadai has given us quite generously. However, I would like to say that one thing about attitude, posture, let me be clear about what I am saying. I think we can be members of an alliance, even determined members, by asking questions about the alliance. We can take part in military operations, even if we raise problems with the military operation, and we put it to the table. Abu Ghraib. We were involved in that operation, supposedly, under the Medgyessy government, but we didn't approve that the American soldiers were torturing Arab soldiers in the detention camp, as it turned out from CNN reporting. And if we bring this up, we're not against the United States, we're not attacking the President, we're just saying it's not right, and let's discuss it. And, of course, there is also an attitude that we can see from the opposition here, that if the move came out, we had to look for President Putin's butt with the broadest strokes of language. We remember: pulnic dog gifting, family visit in completely unusual international relations, family visit in Szemlőhegy, friendly beer with Putin's wife in Moscow. This is not required by international diplomacy, let there be no misunderstanding. If this is not currens, then Brussels must lick its ass with the greatest language strokes and bring in a treaty amendment without even the Hungarian raw translation being fully completed. We've understood this, we've discussed it here, and they've suggested that Juncker's already read it, okay. So I think that we have nothing against NATO when we ask questions; for example, it is a simple question of organizational theory that if there is a structure of a particular organisation and it has a decision-making mechanism, it is obvious that if the organisation grows and expands and eventually reaches the point where the organisational structure and decision-making mechanism will be problematic, especially in the case of NATO, if we bring into NATO a conflict that has not been there before. Let's not forget, there is a fundamental contrast between the Turks and the Swedes, which has not been in NATO so far. To the extent that Turkey, which has the second strongest army, binds the dog to the stake and says that as long as Kurdish organisations which it considers to be terrorists enjoy such immunity in Sweden, Sweden cannot be a member of NATO. We have nothing to do with this, but let's keep a low record that this alliance that we have said, about trust and our cooperation, here is a wedge that doesn't go away. The Swedes are determined, and the Turks are determined. We don't know the answer. We're just signaling this problem. This does not make us anti- NATO, make no mistake, and we can even vote for Swedish NATO membership. It will be interesting, by the way, after NATO cooperation, if there are such fundamental differences. But the fact is that enlargement also raises other security policy and military policy issues. We have repeatedly said that Finland is 1340 kilometers long bordering Russia. NATO hasn't had a direct border with Russia, but up north it's only 40 kilometers or less in Norway, and otherwise there's an American-Russian border in the Kuril Islands, if I remember correctly. But they didn't pose any problems that the Finnish-Russian border might pose. Here, the bad historical memory arises automatically, that the Finns have been at war with the Russians, by the way, then we were on the side of the Finns, not even a question, quite clearly. So our Finnish friends can't have a word, because it's happened in history that the Hungarian government and the Hungarian people have joined the Finns, in fact, so we didn't have solidarity and we were sending messages from a distance, but we actually fought with soldiers, with collections, with weapons, and then we stuck to this position. I hope God forbid that the Finns should not return this, because we should not be in this situation. But there is no doubt that NATO's security situation will be sensitive to the fact that otherwise we will have a common border with the Russians for 1340 kilometers. Obviously, it would be a fool's errand to think that the Russians would react. So far, Russia and NATO have mutually guaranteed the neutrality of Finland. Obviously, if NATO becomes a member of Finland, there will be no mutual guarantee. From here on out, you can think about it... otherwise the Finns risk more. [[16.30]] So far, Finns and Swedes, who are in a very similar situation, only Sweden does not have a land border with Russia, that in a possible conflict they are not attacked or rejoined by an attack that, say, poses a nuclear threat. By joining NATO, this automatically means that. Of course, they should be the first to account for this to their own voters, because this question is also raised there, whether, by the way, the surrender of Swedish and Finnish neutrality increases their security or weakens it. But there is no doubt that there are a number of relevant questions about NATO enlargement that are worth considering before we vote, and if we give ourselves time to do so, that is not a problem at all. Not to mention that perhaps those who are less informed about such deadlines may think that if we do not pick up the Finns and the Swedes here tomorrow, I do not know what will happen, while the NATO summit in Madrid set the target date for the Vilnius Summit this July, when they asked the Member States, if possible, to carry out NATO membership procedures together with ratification. Do you understand? ! In July of this year, Vilnius will be the summit that NATO has designated. The Balliberal opposition is acting like the KISZ camp at the rally, but here they don't share the first ones with extra tanks and I don't know if they're hitting a rocket. This is completely pointless, because everyone knows that the legal situation today is that if we voted for Finland and Sweden's accession at this moment, nothing would happen at all, because NATO provides for full agreement in its treaty, and the Turks, as we know, have not ratified this application or NATO membership, but have simply not initiated the procedure. They didn't even start it! If we are urged to consult overnight on weekends, of course, but let us consult, let us say, if it is so important, then let one or two of your opposition friends know that they may be interested in the issue, because there are complete parties missing from the whole debate, see Momentum, so they are not interested at all; it is obvious how important this is. The representatives of the ruling parties are here. I stress that the haste is nothing, but it has no practical relevance and no meaning. If we hold it on the 20th or the 21st, I don't know when... it might be of any importance that if we don't comply with the regulations of the house, the President of the Republic will send it back to us in due course of procedural failure. If there is an amendment to this proposal, then two committees should be consulted, such as the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Defence Committee, and then even the TAB will have to negotiate and then return to Parliament. I'm not suggesting that we miss this in a hurry, because then we're really making a bigger mistake than we would have won with speed, because it's not gonna get us anything in the world. Of course, NATO expansion has not only such a safety risk approach, but it is also worth seeing how integrated or NATO-compatible the Swedish or Finnish army is. In this sense, they perform flawlessly, I can safely say, so it is not really possible to raise such a problem either for the Swedes or for the Finns, and both countries have a strong, well-organized and well-equipped army, the reserve stock that is still at their disposal, apart from the fact that the number of their army is significant, absolutely strengthening NATO in military, direct military terms. The inclusion of the Kingdom of Sweden and the Republic of Finland is justified and raises other problems which I have just emphasised. At the same time, it may be worth pointing out in this debate that the governing parties believe unanimously in NATO membership, in Hungary's NATO membership, but this does not mean that from now on all possible issues raised in the context of NATO will be heard, because this also entails a vow of silence. This is not the case, and we are even convinced that it may also benefit other NATO members if we are able to ask questions, which are important issues, and for some reason they cannot or do not want to do so. So this is good for all the allies, and I think sensible debates are absolutely necessary, and we also need to be careful. Overall, Hungary is a committed NATO member, and no one has ever raised the idea of reviewing our NATO membership other than the One Hungary Movement, so there is no such thing at all, and we have retained the right to criticize it if we do not like it. I think this is perfectly natural, and we are true and good NATO members, and, of course, we consider all the arguments regarding the recruitment procedure. Overall, it is a problem that worries me, but it is also more so for the future of NATO: what are we going to do with the situation if we put in NATO a conflict that has not yet been the opposite of two Member States that are difficult to bring together or reconcile. By the way, what this means in relation to Turkey and Greece, in NATO, we can see that it is not good for NATO. Okay, NATO has a conflict like this in the south, we're operating on one north. How we're gonna handle this, that's all I'm gonna ask, if the Turks are gonna vote at all, because, right, they said they're gonna tie the dog to the stake and the Swedes. So we might be able to ratify anything here, not make any of it. At the same time, if we consider everything, then, I think, the inclusion of the Kingdom of Sweden and the Republic of Finland into NATO, together with the fact that the resolution of the Swedish-Turkish conflict is today a fully open issue. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-01-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group.
u2023-03-01-101	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mrs Vadai has suddenly become so sensitive to the adjectives and how they judge each other, and she is once again trying to distract the word and the subject from the important issue that we are discussing, Finland and Sweden's accession to NATO, which we support. Congresswoman! Do you remember when your boss called us rags and scoundrels and said things like no mercy or anything like that? You were not so sensitive at the time, and you were laughing and applauding there, honourable Member. Where's the sensitivity that you're getting up to with the adjectives, pushing the button and yelling at us? Oh, Ferenc Gyurcsány is allowed, no, because he's allowed everything, we know he can conduct a horse-riding attack against his own people, and he can have the eyes and heads of peaceful protesters shot with rubber bullets. So I understand, honourable Member, but let's stop for a moment. There is a subject that we support, we think is important, we have talked about it in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we have also talked about it at the NATO General Assembly, we have also talked about it here, honourable Member, and because we are going to vote on this issue in the same way, we cannot be abused, so you are constantly trying to distract the debate in all other directions, and you are trying to talk about things here that have nothing to do with the Hungarian army, the defence, Finland, Sweden or NATO accession. [[16.40]] Just so you can spend half an hour of today's political hatred, four hours, no matter how much. The thing is, honourable Member, why didn't you speak up and tell Ferenc Gyurcsány that you shouldn't be angry, Feri, that's a lot, that you're rag-manging them, you're rascaling them, and you're telling them that there will be no mercy. He told more than 3 million people, all Fidesz voters, Ferenc Gyurcsány, to be ashamed of themselves. He told 3 million people in this country to be ashamed of themselves. Madam Member, where was this famous sensitivity? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-01-102	Thank you very much. We will continue with two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2023-03-01-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thirty-two countries must be watching what we're doing here at debate. And I'm sure two of you will be watching very, very closely, and millions of people will be watching on your news tonight what we are doing here today with you on this subject. That is why I have not been involved in the debate so far at the stage of treason, on whose behalf anyone can speak, at all, on any title, or on whomever has been elected, and on the other types of questions, because I think it is completely unworthy. Well, I had some ideas about guts, too, so believe me, I'm gonna give you some clever answers to the pro-government speakers. I didn't, and I'm not doing it now. I'd like to use the rest of the minute for one. I ask you that we be worthy of this agenda, this House, and that we decide the fate of two other nations. One is Finland. While we have been having this debate here or you have been having this debate, at just these moments, the Finnish Parliament has accepted their accession to NATO by 184 votes in favour and 7 against. If you respect sovereignty and respect the magnitude of a country's standing on a subject, then I think we can round this up, and that makes it absolutely clear that we are talking about national unity, and on a subject that I am sure is very important to them. Therefore, with all due respect, I am asking everyone, and I am going to stick to it, and I will say no more that there is a topic here, and the overwhelming majority of Parliament has declared that it will support it. There's only one thing I think we have to do, and that's what I want you to do, and that's what I want you to do, because you're still doing what you want us to do so that we can do it as soon as possible and get this vote over with. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2023-03-01-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Fazekas, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-03-01-105	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Looks like we're really not behind on this vote. I am sorry that Congressman has other urgent mobile phone tasks, and now he's gone. I think it is okay if there are issues here that are embarrassing and related to the agenda for the opposition. It is absolutely important to say that Hungary is a member of NATO, our allies have always been able to count on us and can count on us in the future. The evidence of this is that both participation in various international missions and the development of defence, strengthening its number and equipment, and what is very important in its morale. At least it makes me think about Agnes Vadai, former Secretary of State, saying things about the defence that have been said. Madam Member, when you were a secretary of state there, you were able to eliminate the army, sell military technology, reduce your numbers. The Hungarian Army has been booked as a water-cleaning army. That's what they said about him. Because he couldn't do anything else unless there was a Kosmet intervention or other intervention, there was drinking water, which was an important thing, by the way, provided by the Hungarian army; the appropriate force got out at the time of your secretary of state, and it was solved. Congratulations on that. I take back what I said about you not having a sense of humor, because it really is in the sense of humor that you are exemplary with Viktor Orbán, my lady. Viktor Orbán has been elected Prime Minister of Hungary five times, and you have never, ever been elected. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-01-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Agnes Vadai, DK Group.
u2023-03-01-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, And they tell me how emotional women are. Well, you can see that my male colleagues here are very emotional about this thing. I would like to say to Congressman Nacsa that the statement of fact was not, therefore, an opinion, but a fact from the mouth of Lajos Kósa, because he told me, as a fact, that I was a traitor. So he didn't express his opinion, he said it as a fact. I think we have a lot to argue about, Congressman, but I don't think you're a traitor. I don't agree with you, I think you're on the wrong path in many ways, but I don't think you're a traitor. On the other hand, your colleagues, your fraternity partner, here in concreto, are talking about me being a traitor. I don't think this is the way to compromise. I have listened to what happened between 2002 and 2010 in the Hungarian Army. We could have a debate day on the operation of the Hungarian Defence Service. Obviously, there are Members here who have no idea of the operation of the Hungarian Defence Forces and of the great NATO, EU and international programmes that were adopted in 2008 in Pope, where ten NATO countries and Finland and Sweden have created heavy-air transport capabilities with three globalmaster freight aircraft of C-17. But obviously this is not their territory, it's not hybrid warfare, it's hybrid corn; but it's not a problem. There should be no misunderstanding, there is a need to approach the accession of Finland and Sweden from as many sides as possible. What I understand, fellow Members, is that they say that we have time for this decision. However, this decision is important not because of Finland and Sweden, but because of ourselves. In the last seven months, you have not been able to provide a reason for delaying the accession of these two countries to NATO. I think it's come to light today that there's no real reason, there's only political insult, but that's not a good counselor. These two countries are important to us, so let us have the opportunity to vote on this as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
u2023-03-01-108	Thank you. Dear Parliament, For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Congressman Brenner Koloman, Jobbik.
u2023-03-01-109	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Joining my fellow Member in the Bell, I would also like to say in the absence of the unworthy debate that has sometimes been heard from some of our fellow Members, I would like to say that, yes, we have Swedish and Finnish friends and fellow Members. They may be critical of the Fidesz one-party overpower government, and as I said in my lead speakers on behalf of the Jobbik-Conservatives, certain criticisms are unfair. That's what I said. That's true. But they and the two people are our friends and allies, and they are watching this debate. I think that, in light of this, this issue should be well distinguished from the debate that is a legitimate debate, a political debate. Yes, there are extremist liberal politicians who sometimes say things that are not true; but there are a lot of criticisms, breakdown of the rule of law, unilateral media relations, and so on, in which our conservative community believes they are right. But this must not be linked to such a very serious issue as the accession of these two friendly nations to NATO. I ask with respect that we continue this debate in the light of this and that we vote on this proposal as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
u2023-03-01-110	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We're past the two-minute speeches. We now have speeches in the normal time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Tilki, Fidesz Group.
u2023-03-01-111	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, It was said in the debate that certain Swedish speakers did not classify Hungary, but referred specifically to the government. This is interesting because they do not always highlight whether they are thinking about the government or thinking about the country. But if they are talking about and suggesting that the right, which has won two thirds for the fourth time, won the election under legitimate election conditions, and they suspect that this is not the case, then they are violating all Hungarian people. I always remember László Mérő, if I remember his name correctly, who was an election observer in one of the settlements in Bodrogolasi in Zemplén, who said that we were brainwashed, because we thought that the rural people... what the representative of the now conservative Jobbik had just said, but just by sticking a word with him, they will not forget outside, not even the Swedes, not the Finns, and not in Europe, that six months ago you were still in an election alliance with the eye-shooting man. So, László Mérő said that they were mistaken because they didn't know the people of the country, and I apologize for talking about rural people again, but, since I'm from an area like that, the rural, our voters, our people, perhaps Vadai representative would prefer this, but I will say in general, they didn't know the thinking of the rural man. [[16.50]] And if you could, because I really get the feeling that you're a war commissioner... as an economist and a lawyer, you can't be expected. You just taught me that we don't know NATO, obviously you don't know history, but maybe you remember the war commissioner from that messy time. Sometimes his outburst reminds me of the war commissioner and maybe a lot of us. I'd like to suggest a saying in the country to your attention. Szamosszeg is a wonderful little village in my constituency, where they say otherwise that the hair is not one with silk. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-03-01-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the joint general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Péter Sztáray, Secretary of State, if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[Dr. Péter András Sztáray: Yes.]] Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2023-03-01-113	Mr. President, thank you very much. I would particularly like to thank the speakers for their contributions to the Government's position on this very important issue. Indeed, NATO is a collective defence organization. In addition to the national military capabilities for Hungary, this organization is the ultimate guarantor of security, so we are not talking about anything. That is why I was very surprised and, in fact, I found it strange to talk about peacock dancing in Hungary and NATO. There is no peacock dance at all, Hungary is extremely committed to NATO. I have personally worked in Hungarian-NATO relations for 30 years, and I have spent 13 years in NATO, so I have a comparison. I can see that we have never taken NATO membership as seriously as we have in the last ten years, and especially as in the last five years, when we started to fully modernise the army, we have raised our defence budget to 20 percent of GDP. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: 2 percent!]] And we're over 20 percent. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Not 20! Two!]] in the area of development within the defence budget; 2 per cent in the GDP ratio and 20 per cent in the development within the defence budget. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Yeah, in development.]] All three are very important because it is based on these that we have fulfilled our promises in Wales, which, by the way, a number of NATO countries will not deliver until 2024, even though they promised. So here we are in membership. When it is said that there has been a serious loss of balance in foreign policy, there are many question marks, because there has been a global opening, an Eastern and Southern opening in the last 12 years, while our relations have not decreased to the Western orientation and Western relations. So I have to say that these are all comments that are questionable. When I see the government being attacked from right to right as an Atlantist and too little from left as an Atlantist, I am convinced that the government is moving in the right direction and shaping foreign policy along national interests. This enlargement is a separate issue, a decision with extraordinary responsibility, because, as many people have spoken about it here, Hungary decides to accept that if Sweden and Finland are attacked, it will send Hungarian soldiers to defend these two countries with the risk that Hungarian soldiers could lose their lives there as well. So we have to deal with this as a serious issue. This is the sovereign competence of each country, each country weighs and decides in a sovereign manner to support the inclusion of another Member State in this Defence Alliance. Whatever international pressure there is on the government, whatever international pressure there is on the Hungarian Parliament, it is ultimately the responsibility of the Hungarian Parliament alone to take into account all aspects of this issue and to decide with due responsibility. There are two main groups of questions that need to be looked at. One is to strengthen the security of Hungary. From this point of view, the government says that, yes, NATO will expand its Northern defence presence and two forces will join in to strengthen the integrated military structure. The second question is how the two countries relate to Hungary in other areas. That's at least as important a question. Unfortunately, in recent years, there have been some very serious questions about its content and tone, too, in terms of tone. I brought this bundle of paper with me. [[He's lifting a stack of documents.]] , which only collects back to 2021 the statements made on Hungary by Swedish and Finnish politicians, including pro-government and opposition politicians. These statements cannot be limited to the Hungarian government alone, they are targeted by the Hungarian nation. So this is about the honour of the nation when we talk about these matters, so you can't just step over them, and that there is a cute folkloristic custom where you have to kick into Hungary every day, we don't have to leave it alone. Therefore, as a country with a sovereign foreign policy, Hungary must also treat ratification as a sovereign matter. And this is not a sad game, as has been said, or the procedure is not a shame, but it is the minimum that we raise to the partners if they make incorrect or distorted, unacceptable statements about Hungary. This is one of the important points of the current process, that is the minimum. Otherwise, the government does not interfere in other people's internal affairs and, on the basis of mutual respect, expects other countries to do so, especially if that country wants to become our ally. Not just any relationship with us, but, as I said at the beginning, a relationship in which we can shed our blood for each other. It's not a sandbox, it's a far more serious matter, I'm telling you, of the nation's honor. Overall, I think that the debate has been very useful, and we can now see the positions well. To sum up the position of the government in two points: we support the Swedish and Finnish recruitment into the Alliance, and I see that there is broad support for this issue within Parliament; on the other hand, we also support that the Parliament should send a delegation to the two countries and clarify open issues in the coming days. I would end my reaction with this, and I hope that this process goes in the right direction, that we can clarify the open issues and that NATO will become richer with two more Member States. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-03-01-114	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. We now have an after-the-meet speech. On the occasion of the anniversary of his election as Governor Miklós Horthy, Mr President Novák, Mi Hazank Group, has applied for a post-meeting speech. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2023-03-01-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. God bless you. Dear Parliament, Although the name of the county was not accompanied as a more meaningful measure by the restoration of the gendarme, but we will not give up, as an example of the impressive economic recovery and uncompromising national policy of the Horthy era, we erected a statue in the Parliament for Miklós Horthy on the anniversary of the second Viennese decision. At the same time, we submitted a proposal for a resolution to make the feedback of North Transylvania a homecoming day for the National Assembly. Although our last governor's work can be criticized from both left and right, and rightly so, compared to the 25 years of the Horthy era, he clearly calls for a statue. [[17.00]] Between the two world wars, the global economic crisis, the Spanish flu epidemic with tens of millions of deaths worldwide and Trianon in particular have hit the country, and yet Miklós Horthy was able to start it to flourish, producing impressive economic development and cultural effeminateness. We'd like to place our last governor in the House's Dome Room, next to the statue of the greats of the nation. As Ferenc Rákóczi did later in the Parliament built during the Monarchy, in the Horthy era only received a plaque there, there could be a similar marble sheet. Unfortunately, the Speaker does not support this, but at least in the office of Dóra Dúró, Vice-President of Parliament, in the vicinity of the Holy Crown, we set up a bronze bust of 57 centimeters, the work of Attila Csák sculptor Ferenc Zétényi Csukás, the honorary president of the Horthy Miklós Society, with the blessing of a reformed priest, and a Roman Catholic priest also attended on the holiday. The statue was shown earlier at the national assembly, when 13 national organizations marched together with white horsemen to the Parliament. Today, the Speaker of Parliament held a commemoration in front of the agenda on the occasion of the Day of Civilian National Security Services, but in vain in the House Committee, I initiated today an official commemoration of the anniversary of the election of Miklós Horthy as Governor, so I must now draw attention to an unappreciably forgotten date. 103 years ago, on 1 March 1920, Miklós Horthy, of the 141 Members of Parliament who were present at that time, won the office of Governor of the Kingdom of Hungary by 131 votes, and then completed it for nearly 25 years. I know very well that there are few statesmen whose appearance and quarter-century reigns are being debated by more than Miklós Horthy of Nagybánya, in particular the ideology of socialism, and the few decades after that, he did everything he could to smite the governor's honour, deny his merits, expose his mistakes. In the case of Horthy's judgment, Viktor Orbán's double speech was also made clear: in 2017 the Prime Minister at the Klebelsberg Castle said that Miklós Horthy was an exceptional statesman, whose judgment could not be overshadowed by the mourning role of the Second World War, and in a month's time, Viktor Orbán, when he met the Israeli Prime Minister who visited our country, sprinkled ash on his head, and I quote: although protecting citizens would be a moral and political requirement, Hungary did not act accordingly in the Second World War, but stood next to the Nazis, and that is a sin. Last year, the KDNP came out from behind the Horthy Monument in Szeged, under the pressure of Balliberal organizations, according to the order of the organizer patina warriors, a KDNP Member of Parliament would have given a speech at the event, but he said that his intention was rescinded by a brave, brave attitude, we might add. Balliberal parties are also quoted. Our task is to exterminate the Irish core of the horthyzmus by 2022, and Zsolt Gréczy, a perverted representative of DK, announced in connection with our Horthy parade in Jubilee, while at the same time Richárd Barabás, Deputy Mayor of the Újbuda Rainbow Coalition, spokesperson of the Dialogue, began a cheap Nazi. On the other hand, we have tabled our proposal for a parliamentary decision to introduce the day of return. It can be of dual significance: a day of remembrance when the nation bows to the glory of the patriots fighting for revision, and a day of celebration when we believe that in time the divine eternal truth will triumph over the lie, hope [[The president's ringing the bell.]] over acceptance, the law over injustice. A better future.
u2023-03-01-116	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next Spring Session is expected to take place on 6 March 2023. Thank you for your work. The meeting's closed.
