u2023-03-06-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 4th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government today, Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, has applied for a speech. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade Péter Szijjártó. Here you go, Minister.
u2023-03-06-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We have been living in the vicinity of the war for more than a year now, and there has been a war between Russia and Ukraine for more than a year now. And the chronicles of this more than one year are at least devastating: hundreds of thousands of people died, millions of people were forced to flee their homes, hundreds of thousands of families were torn apart, thousands of people were recruited by force, total parts of the country destroyed and destroyed; the European economy is struggling, we have seen serious evidence of the fragility of global energy supply, and we have also faced a global food supply crisis. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, This is a regional war geographically, but its effects are global, and we are at the 25th hour to prevent the war itself from becoming a world war. Europe and the transatlantic area are clearly in war psychosis. It is personally shocking to listen to officials in Brussels who consider it as a competition that the United States or Europe is giving more weapons to Ukraine. First of all, it is obviously completely illogical to compete with the world's number one superpower in relation to any arms supply, but obviously these bureaucrats forget that this war is happening here in Europe, people in Europe are dying, and all the negative effects of the war are directly and immediately occurring in Europe. Moreover, the escalation threat of this war is also affecting Europe, because if a war escalates, it does not escalate thousands of kilometres, it does not first escalate on the other side of the ocean, but in the neighbourhood. And we in the neighbourhood, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, are unfortunately aware of all the dangers and losses of the war. And I would like to underline the word "lost" in view of the fact that Hungarian people died in this war as well. The members of the Hungarian community in Transcarpathia are also regularly recruited into the Ukrainian army. Unfortunately, we've seen videos that were specifically about brutal enlisting techniques. Interestingly, human rights organisations are silent at a time like this. At the same time, many of the Transcarpathian Hungarians who were enlisted have already died on the front. And let's stop here for a second. Ladies and gentlemen, When Western friends try to teach us that we are not committed enough or that we are not helping Ukraine enough, the question must be: how many lives have they lost so far. Because we don't know that Germans, Czechs, Belgians, or Dutch people died on the front line, and thank God, let's keep it that way, but let's not be taught out of support or commitment. We Hungarians, Hungarian people, Hungary are not responsible for the war in the neighbourhood. This isn't our war. However, Hungary and the Hungarian people have already paid too much price for this war, and no one can expect us to pay even more price. We from next door, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, clearly see that this war brings only suffering, there is no war, there is no winners, there are only losers of this war, and the longer this war takes, the more people will die, and the longer this war takes, the more destruction it will cause. In this situation, it is quite clear what or what the international community would do, and this is saving people's lives. We Hungarians do not want more people to die in this war. The question is, of course, justified: how? How can human lives be saved? Ladies and gentlemen, Definitely not with weapons supplies. Weapons transports are dangerous, weapons transports pose a threat to the temporal and geographical extent of the war. And once again, we live in the neighborhood, the escalation threat to us is the greatest. And, of course, you can't save people's lives with sanctions. I was sitting there last year in the debates when sanctions proposals were first introduced to Brussels decision-making forums. At the time, it was clear what the pro-sanctioned argument was: sanctions will force Russia to its knees, so the war will end sooner. More than a year has passed, war is more brutal than ever, and sanctions hurt us Europeans more than they hurt Russia. And logically, you'd think that if we tried something nine times and failed nine times, we wouldn't be running for it the tenth time. Compared to this, Brussels logic dictates otherwise: after nine unsuccessful attempts, a new sanction package was adopted. This is difficult to reconcile with common sense, it is pushing the European economy towards recession, because the fact that European sanctions are more painful for us Europeans, we Hungarians are also providing evidence: only for us Hungarians, the sanctions increased our energy bill by HUF 4000 billion. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Human lives can therefore be saved by peace, not by arms, not by sanctions. Peace requires a ceasefire and peace talks. And don't fool us, fellow Members, don't deceive us. The war psychosis of the transatlantic bubble. The fact is that there are a vast majority of countries in the world that want peace, because this war is a regional war, but the effects of war are worldwide. And the vast majority of the countries in the world want this war to end, also look at the pro-peace resolution proposal adopted by the UN with a large majority. The global majority is in favour of peace, and Hungary is part of this global pro-peace majority. Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, there can't be peace without negotiations, it's not too complicated to see, and negotiations can't be made, so if there are no channels of communication, it's not complicated, either. Therefore, communication channels should be kept open. Blocking communication channels means giving up hope for peace, and we do not want to give up hope for peace. It is inevitable, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that direct consultations and meaningful negotiations between the United States and Russia should be established. We were pleased, we welcomed the fact that Russia and the United States Foreign Minister spoke to each other at the G20 Foreign Minister's Conference. I wish they had more time for each other than those few minutes. [[13.10]] It is difficult to imagine a lasting settlement in this case without direct US-Russian negotiations. And then, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we must also say a few words here about the Hungarian community in Transcarpathia, because while we are carrying out the greatest humanitarian action in Hungary's history in order to help all Ukrainian refugees, there will be further and more disincentives and provocations for the Hungarian national community in Transcarpathia. While 1247 students and children from Ukraine have already been admitted to Hungarian schools and kindergartens, Hungarian minority schools will be closed in Ukraine from 1 September; 99 such schools are there. As of 1 September, the possibility of graduating from the mother tongue and colleges will be lost, and universities will be deprived of the choice of language for education. From September, all this in Ukraine, so that even after the fourth grade, the number of hours in the mother tongue should be reduced to 20 percent. And while the European Union supports the operation of the Ukrainian state with billions of euros, some institutions in the Ukrainian state promise 300 thousand HUF per year of support to a family that is not a minority but a Ukrainian state class for four years. Obviously, this type of action against national communities and minorities is unacceptable, Hungary stands by the Hungarian community in Transcarpathia and we use all international forums to help Hungarians in Transcarpathia. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to become part of the global pro-peace majority, and the Parliament will adopt the pro-peace resolution proposal that the pro-government factions have tabled here. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-06-2	I thank you, Minister, for your speech. Dear Parliament, After the Minister's speech exceeded the five-minute time frame, the political groups have a five-minute time frame to express their comments. First, I give the floor to Congressman György Lukács, Jobbik Group.
u2023-03-06-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, We can all agree that peace resides in the soul of all well-meaning people, and that the pursuit of peace is our most important desire when there is a war going on next door. This is due to the fact that, in our history, there is a Hungarian-speaking minority living there, which is now one of the sufferers of the war. It must also be stated, and the Jobbik-Conservatives are serious about this and believe that everything that is against the Hungarian-speaking minority must be protested; in this we ourselves take advantage of all our opportunities. We have been out in Transcarpathia in the past few days, talking about the atrocities against the Hungarian minority that are unacceptable to us. It must be a clear national minimum, and everyone must think that the Hungarian nation, the Hungarian state, is obliged to protect the native language and cultural identity of the population living there. Thank you very much for the involvement of those who, at the time of or after the outbreak of the war, organised or unorganized, as civilians, together with the family, either individually or as an institution, have helped in the past period to supply and reside Ukrainian refugees who were forced to leave their homes because of the war. It must be made clear that when we talk about peace and we talk about the need for peace, there seem to be two kinds of peace here. You are proposing and proposing peace with your proposal for a resolution, and this is your own proposal for peace, which, apparently, is not a just peace, and that is the real distinction: in itself we are simply saying that there should be peace, or that we should say that a just peace must be made, one of the conditions of which is to say this, and that you have been at the forefront of the change of regime, that you are Russkies, home! I'm sorry, I'm sorry, [[One voice, come on.]] Russian troops have no place in Ukrainian territory, they have to leave the area that has been occupied, which has been taken away from Ukrainian people as an aggressor. This is one of the conditions for a just peace, and not only does the Jobbik-Conservatives think so, but so does the Vatican, because that is how they put it. If you think there are only two left in the peace camp, then your other partner, if the opposition doesn't accept his position. It is therefore clear that there is no lasting peace as long as the Russian troops are in the Ukrainian territory. It is also clear that if a person does not want just peace, he really wants the peace of the hanging trees, the peace of November 4. It is also clear that anyone wishing for such a peace will choose the way that our country is drifting from the European interest, to which St. Stephen led it, to which it is drifting away; anyone who wants such a peace actually wants to lead our country out of the European community, the European Union. However, it is important to say that our security is Europe, our security is the circle of culture that we wanted to belong to, belong to, and belong to, our history, which is over a thousand years old. It seriously affects the situation of Transcarpathian Hungarians, which is happening now. In this, it must be clearly stated that unity, national unity are needed, and you can count on us to do so, and we will always be partners in this. But it must also be stated, and let us have these common demands, that there should be a just peace, let us dare say it, dare you to say it, and let your fellow Members dare to say, "Russians, home!" If we cannot agree on these essential points, we cannot achieve the national minimum of peace that we all need without it. We will therefore suggest to you that you dare to depart from Putin, dare to withdraw from the position of Russia, represent the position of just peace, and return to the roots which you knew exactly, and could be removed from 1956 by 1990. We wish you a lot of courage, a lot of courage, a lot of courage, a lot of courage, a lot of courage, a lot of courage, a lot of courage, a lot of courage, a lot of courage, a lot of courage, a lot of courage, a lot of courage, a lot of courage, a lot of courage, a lot of courage. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of Jobbik, MSZP and Dialogue.]]
u2023-03-06-4	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Péter Ungár, Member of the LMP Group, in a five-minute timeframe.
u2023-03-06-5	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister for Foreign Affairs, We agree on two things, obviously. One is that peace is the most important thing. It is quite sad that, since the third generation, mothers in the Soviet region have sacrificed their sons my age for wars that do not serve their interests, whether they are Russian or Ukrainian mothers. The other is that only we can stand up for the interests of Transcarpathian Hungarians. The Hungarians of Transcarpathia are an indigenous minority, not they were sent to a foreign state, but a foreign state came over them. For this reason, LMP has been supporting the government's veto policy for Transcarpathian Hungarians in the last ten years, even against Ukraine. The sad thing about your position is that they keep talking about Western Europe. Honestly, I do not think of myself as Western European, I am a proud Eastern European man, and I think that we do not need to look at what Western Europe is saying on this issue. What we need to look at is what countries who are in a similar geographical situation, who have suffered similar historical traumas over the last decades, centuries, have been saying. The saddest loss of your policy is that the V4 cooperation was sacrificed on the altar of Russia. [[13.20]] The situation is very simple: our allies could be those who unfortunately had to participate in the Soviet occupation, and as long as we are the only ones who really talk out of the Eastern European choir, we will be traitors to our own region. The problem with your position is that they do not take into account that as long as Russia does not consider itself as the first victim of the Soviet Union, but as an heir, such wars will continue to be provoked. This war hasn't just begun. This war began when they first intervened in Crimea in 14 years. This war is not even the first war Russia has waged in the region, in the nearby foreign region. In 2008, when you were still in opposition, you intervened, for example, in Georgia. I would not like to quote the words of Viktor Orbán at the time, if I were to say something that Viktor Orbán said then, then Origo said I would be a traitor. The very simple situation is that Russia thinks that it is the master of Eastern Europe. As long as he thinks he's Lord of Eastern Europe, we Eastern Europeans are not safe. And I have a sincere confession to make to you. I have little interest in what you are very concerned about: what is Russian security harm, how are they comfortable? What oath did Vladimir Putin take as a breach of oath, which Western commentary did he think was wrong? This may interest those who are in the Kremlin, but this is not important for the Hungarian interest. From our point of view, the only important thing is that on 24 February those tanks went the wrong way from Moscow. In addition, we do not need large geopolitical explanations. Those tanks started in a direction closer to Hungary than they did back then. That's the problem! That's the problem with this war. Minister Szijjártó! Clearly, the fact that someone thinks foreign trade is important is a symbolic question. The name of the Ministry has also been changed, and compared to János Martonyi, you consider it more important to bring up everything on the globe. But let's face it, though, that it has some symbolic significance that Russia has given you the greatest state medal. Since then, you've been able to call in Russian diplomacy once, when LMP indicated that it was an orange revolution and a Nazi uprising. Since then, he has spoken very aggressively to the Dutch ambassador when he spoke about the justice system; this has not happened to Russia. So overall, peace is a very important thing. But to say in peace that there is equal responsibility for the attacker and the attacker is simply a lie. They have no equal responsibility. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of LMP, MSZP and Dialogue.]]
u2023-03-06-6	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Timea Szabó, Dialogue Group. Here you go. [[Noise on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-03-06-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I still think that when I hear the Fidesz fraction, it's nothing more than a medal to me, because it means that I'm bothering you so much, and what I'm saying is that it's in the best interest of the country. [[Noise on the pro-government side. Bence Rétvári: Which country? The president's ringing the bell.]] I'm glad I'm the number one enemy on your board. Minister, when you gave your speech the title of saving lives, I was happy for a moment because I thought you were going to talk, for example, about health care in Hungary. He will talk about how you have made a mistake, changed your mind, and yet you are not making the entire Hungarian medical society the number one enemy, yet you are not declaring an open war against Hungarian patients, yet you are going to fight to ensure that most people in the European Union do not die of cancer in the European Union, as I have already demonstrated in the previous trial, according to Eurostat statistics. Unfortunately, I had to be wrong again, you're not talking about living, you're not talking about protecting the lives of Hungarian people, you're talking about a false peace speech. In the 1950s, Comrade Rákosi said something like this, fighting for global peace [[Noise on the pro-government side.]] speeches that had nothing to do with reality. Dear Minister, If you are fighting so hard for peace, and you visit so many Russian Foreign Minister Lavrovs, for example, why don't you ask him to stop the war immediately and leave the entire territory of Ukraine? If you're so pro-peace, why don't you return the Order of Merit for Russian Friendship that you received from the Russian Foreign Minister three months before the Ukrainian war broke out? Give it back to him, and we'll believe you're pro-peace. Because the biggest lie today is to say that it has the same responsibility in peace, in the restoration of peace, for Ukraine and Russia. You didn't even say in your ten-minute speech that Russia is the aggressor, Russia and Vladimir Putin is the war criminal in this! That Russian army, Vladimir Putin, whose men are mass and systematic raping Ukrainian women. There are already public reports that 25-30-40 women in Bucsa and other cities have been kept in cellars for weeks by Russian army soldiers to systematically rape them, and you won't say a word about it. And if you don't say Vladimir Putin is a war criminal, then you're not on peace's side. [[Rebecca Szabó: That's right!]] Then it's a lie, what you're saying. When the Russian delegation at the OSCE Parliament acknowledges that 150,000 Ukrainian children are being held in a closed camp, and does not say that this is not true, but says that yes, it is true, but they are very nice camps. When you don't call on Lavrov and Vladimir Putin to get out of Ukraine, you're not pro-peace, you're a liar. When you say that sanctions do not work for Europe and do not help the end of the war, and you forget to add that Viktor Orbán voted in favour of all nine EU sanctions, you are silent about the truth and you are not telling the truth. [[Peter Szijjártó: Ten volts!]] You mentioned nine, if you were ten, the better. That means they've all been supported. The fact is, Minister, that there will be peace if Russia and the Russian army immediately withdraw from Ukraine. Peace will be when Russian war criminals, including Vladimir Putin, are convicted of war crimes by an international court. Because there is no peace without justice. When a word in your lying resolution proposal is not about it, you are not on the side of peace, you are on the side of war. Dear Minister, If you really are pro-peace, you should go to the Russian Foreign Minister, your very good friend right now. [[Defiance on the pro-government side.]] Lavrov, or Lukashenko, the Belarusian dictator with whom you have such a pleasant conversation, even though he carries weapons to Russia, is it okay that the Belarusians carry guns? - ; invite these dictators to withdraw from the territory of Russia and apologize to everyone immediately. Thank you. [[A round of applause in the dialogue. Noise on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-03-06-8	Dear Parliament, I will ask my fellow Members to quiet down. I give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2023-03-06-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. As a true left-wing social democratic party, the MSZP is, of course, on the side of peace. [[Deficiencies and noise on the pro-government side.]] And before you get too excited by my pro-government fellow Members, I would remind you that a year ago, that particular pro-peace resolution proposal was voted by the representatives of the MSZP. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Bence Tordai didn't vote for it!]] This has not prevented you from having tens of billions of public money in the morning, noon, at night, but probably even when you were sleeping, misinformed people, cheating people and lying to people about, for example, who is pro-peace and who is not, and obviously preparing for something similar right now. But we really want this Parliament to be able to adopt a consensusary proposal on the peace party. We have therefore tabled an amendment to your text, in which nothing more than the UN Peace Document quoted by the Minister, which was adopted by the UN General Assembly on 24 February on the anniversary of the outbreak of war by 141 votes in favour, 32 abstentions, 7 against. So it is difficult not to say that this is the world's consensual proposal. [[13.30]] Even more interesting, honourable Members, which I think you have little idea, is that Hungary, the Hungarian Government, Péter Szijjártó was not only a voter of this document, but also a rapporteur. So Hungary, as the author of this document, wrote and accepted the following, and we say that if the same thing is brought in here, within the walls of the Hungarian Parliament, which you have proposed and voted for at the UN General Assembly, we will be very happy to support this, and there may be a consensus proposal. [[Imre Komjathi: Like this! Like this!]] Dear fellow Member, I am only reading two points, which we will never hear of here, which is what the Hungarian Government represented there. Point 4 states that the UN reaffirms its commitment to Ukraine's sovereignty, independence, unity and territorial integrity within its internationally recognised borders [[Csaba Dömötör: It's in there! It's in there!]] , which also covers its territorial waters. Point 5 shows now, my honourable fellow Member: the United Nations demands that the Russian Federation immediately, fully and unconditionally withdraws all its military forces from the internationally recognised territory of Ukraine and calls for an end to hostilities. If these sentences are and will be in this joint declaration, which we have tabled once again as a textual amendment proposal, then I think there will be consensus in this House, and there will be very little opposition group that will not vote for this text. If that is not the case, my fellow Members, but the text you have originally tabled will be forced through this House, they will make it very clear, and I say this very frankly, that you are making a dirty party political game out of the escape of tens of millions, hundreds of thousands of deaths and thousands of civilian victims. Because then your goal is not to stand together for peace, but to turn this case into a domestic political circus again. I really hope that's not the case. Finally, very briefly: I think it is a very important topic that the Minister mentioned in relation to Transcarpathian Hungarians. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Although the Prime Minister spoke to a foreign newspaper with a different tone and even with a very different voice about forced assembly, in no way is it acceptable, in any way, to a single Hungarian party, politician or person. (Lárinc Nacsa interrupts.) Therefore, we will support anything that can change that. I would just like to say that when we vote for the European Union, for example, we consider it an opportunity and a force that if Ukraine takes its accession to the European Union seriously, for example, it is certain that it cannot be a member of the European Union as long as it treats its minorities, including the Hungarian minority, in this way. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] But then we'll use it to do that, and let's not get weird, let's just realize what's in our best interest and use it for what's needed. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the lines of DK, MSZP and Dialogue.]]
u2023-03-06-10	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Toroczkai, head of the group of the Group of Mi Hazank. You have the floor.
u2023-03-06-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, much has been said here today in this debate, but the most important has not yet been said: if we want peace, then the war must end. How can the war be ended? If weapons do not arrive from either side, or if we say that in order for peace to end this war, Ukraine will have to resign from its territories. That's what someone should say. 'Cause we're gonna sit here and talk about it. The whole point is that, let's say, the situation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea will not be discussed if we do not talk about the fact that it is we Hungarians who have made the greatest sacrifice in the 20th century. For world peace in the century with Trianon. When the Trianon peace dictator was forced into the mud by all international laws, and when this was sanctioned, so to speak, by the Paris peace treaty, did Ukraine or anyone else raise a word against it? Did he ever say anything? Have you ever spoken for the Hungarians? [[Peter Ungár intervenes.]] Now we have heard a lot of things here compared to this, for example, the one who is talking to me very intensively and then I will listen to Péter Ungár say that he is Eastern European. Then let me also say that I consider myself a member of Northern civilization, and this is the war, and it has not been said here by anyone that this war is about the collision of two great powers between the United States of America and Russia. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] This is basically not the Ukrainians and not the Russians' war, but a major political game. In order for this major political game to be finally completed, and instead of destroying the northern civilization, peace will finally be achieved, for example, we expect the government to reject the accession of Sweden and Finland to NATO. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You're from the north!]] If you will vote for it by chance, then you will be sure that you are not on the side of peace, because you will precisely take advantage of the great battle of world politics that is already taking place in Ukraine, but now there will be more than a thousand kilometers more risk of us being thrown into a world war. In other words, in order to make world peace, we expect the Hungarian government to say that, as the Hungarians were able to make a sacrifice for world peace, Ukrainians must finally acknowledge that certain sacrifices must be made. Another very important issue, which is more important to us than anything else: the situation of Transcarpathia and Transcarpathian Hungarians. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has mentioned the need to put an end to the forced assembly which, unfortunately, also affects Transcarpathian Hungarians. We fully agree with this, but let me add that if everything goes on like this, there will soon be no one of the Hungarians to enlist in Transcarpathia, because there will be simply ethnic and ethnic cleansing in Transcarpathia, by the time this war is over, there will be no Hungarians in Transcarpathia. And before they say that for our security and peace they will not act more strongly for the sake of Transcarpathia and Transcarpathian Hungarians, let me note that the leader and representative of Transcarpathian Hungarians, President of KMKZSZ, László Brenzovics, was already here in Budapest as a refugee in March 2021, he was obviously accused of treason and separatism, illegally, against Hungarian law, and the regime of Kiev at that time is the same regime that is begging for weapons in all countries of the world, and then there was no war, then it wasn't started, wasn't a year ago. Why didn't the government act more decisively then? Why does the government not dare to mention at all international forums that in 1991 there was a referendum in Transcarpathia, which provided for the status of Transcarpathia, this was a legitimate referendum, and in particular it would provide for Hungarian territorial autonomy in the area of Beregszász. This is also rejected by the Kiev regime. We therefore expect the government to stand up even more strongly for Transcarpathia and Transcarpathian Hungarians, and you can certainly count on the support of the Hungarian Movement. And it's still in history because I still have half a minute left, so I didn't say it here today... There is much that has been said that this war began in 2014 with the invasion of Crimea, isn't it? That's not true. In 2013, this war began with Maidan. And to the kind left-wing representatives, this is about as if in 2006, after the siege of the TV headquarters, we decided a government and a system in Budapest. You think it's legitimate or not legitimate [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Was it a story? If they would have accepted Majan, they would have accepted that in 2006 (The President bells.) After the TV showroom, we can switch systems. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-03-06-12	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, DK Group. Here you go.
u2023-03-06-13	Dear House, There were fewer tell-tale scenes in this House today than when the representatives of Fidesz nodded and replaced László Toroczkai's extreme comment, to put it mildly. [[Defiance and intervention from the ranks of our country: Woe!]] Because the fact is, fellow Members, that our country says what the Fidesz thinks, states the representation of Russian interests, says that it must be allowed [[Dóra Dúró: It's not true! An intervention from the ranks of our country.]] states that President Putin's aggression must be allowed. [[An intervention from the ranks of our country.]] Because, Honourable House, [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We all want peace. [[Bence Rétvári: What's new? That's why you'd send guns.]] Every Hungarian citizen, every party wants peace, but we believe that peace will be in one way: if the Russians stop aggression, the attack on Ukraine and leave Ukraine. [[Laszlo Szászfalvi intervenes.]] Minister of Foreign Affairs, go to Moscow to see your friends. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Máté Kocsis: Should he go now or not?!]] take care of it, take care of it, don't be nice to them as usual, make sure the Russians get out of Ukraine. [[Bence Rétvári: Only?! Defiance from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] And not only will Friendship get a medal of merit, but I think she's gonna get a Nobel Peace Prize. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] [[13.40]] Because, fellow Members, there will be no peace from allowing Russian aggression. This is what we saw after 2014 when the occupation of Crimea and the occupation of Dobbas only encouraged Russian aggression. You love to talk about national interests. What is the national interest, fellow Members? [[György Balla: You don't know that!]] It is in the national interest that Hungary be safe. This security is guaranteed today by NATO. And what do you do? We are excited to read today that the Prime Minister asked President Putin that we should remain in a particularly serene moment of NATO membership. [[Bence Rétvári: Western Light, Western Light!]] Luckily, the answer was that we could stay, because otherwise, you guys would have me quit. But you are doing everything you can, my fellow Members, the Prime Minister himself spoke about this, and you are doing everything you can, fellow Members, to weaken NATO. The shameful charade that is being played in connection with the accession of Sweden and Finland to NATO is only for the Russian interests and for the weakening of NATO, therefore it is against the Hungarian national interests, if you like, treason. [[Vítalos Eszter: Sit down, 1!]] Ladies and gentlemen, What else is a national interest? It is in the national interest for Hungary to become a member of a strong European Union. What are you doing? They are constantly trying to weaken, incite and prepare Hungary's exit from the European Union. They are teasing against sanctions, while all ten have been voted one by one. The fact is, fellow Members, that you are putting Hungary's membership of the European Union at risk; this contradicts Hungarian national interests, if you like, treason. [[Bence Rétvári: You said that already. That's what you said.]] What else is a national interest? Yes, it is in the national interest to support and defend Transcarpathian Hungarians. [[Bence Rétvári: This is new!]] It's a national interest. And what are you doing? By not standing up for Ukraine in a difficult situation, they put the Hungarians in a more difficult position in Transcarpathia. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches, including István Hollik: Do you hear what you're saying, or do you just think?]] Those of you who fall down on the front, whose cities you're shooting, against those people you're saying we're not on your side, we're on the side of the Russian aggressors. And from now on, what do you think the fate of people of Hungarian nationality in Ukraine will be? [[Nacsa Lawrence: Don't lie, Gergő.]] What will be the consequences of this policy? The so-called consistent veto policy, which was also so praised by the Head of the Ungár faction, has brought about what improvement in the lives of Hungarians living in Transcarpathia? I'll tell you: none. It is right and desirable for the Hungarian government to stand up for the Hungarians living in Transcarpathia. But this must be done in a way that will benefit, so that it will help to support them. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: National feeling without profit.]] Because because of your political interests, endangering the lives and fate of the Transcarpathian Hungarians is against national interests, if you like, treason. And finally, my fellow Members, the most terrible thing for you is that this is just a political game. The issue of peace, our national interests, our membership of NATO and the European Union, the situation of the Hungarians in Transcarpathia is considered to be only one way to obtain a vote. An opportunity to divert attention from many other problems in the country. Now, that's the real treason. Thank you very much, fellow Members. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2023-03-06-14	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Simicskó, Head of Group, KDNP Group.
u2023-03-06-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, On behalf of the KDNP faction, I would like to thank the Minister for his information and for his calmness in listening to the speeches of the left-wing faction leaders before me. Indeed, much has been said here, and one or two things will obviously be answered by the Minister, but I think it is possible for me to say that it has been said here by MEP László Lukács that only just peace exists. I don't think so. All peace comes with some kind of compromise. We talk about a fair war, we talk about injustice, we basically draw the line by saying that this is a defense, a defence war or an attacking, aggressive war; but we haven't seen a fair peace yet. Compromise, yes, or, at the end of a total war, forced a peace dictate by force. We've been through this before, and we know it. I was happy to listen to Gergely Arató and Timea Szabó, because we have been told here by the government that the key to peace is in the Minister's pocket. So he's a key player in this peace, because they want to send the Secretary of State to Moscow, he'll have one word of it, and then we'll have peace. [[Szabó Timea: You don't have to send, you can do it on your own.]] Obviously, the Hungarian government is strong, and Minister of Foreign Affairs Szijjártó works extremely hard and turns around in a lot of places, and he really does declare peace everywhere and stands up for the interests of Hungary, but it may not be that simple to conclude peace, even if it is in the interest of the Hungarians and especially for the Hungarian government. I think it is very useful and right that the Hungarian government has been providing humanitarian aid to those fleeing the war from the beginning. The 1274 Hungarian schools where we have accepted children fleeing Ukraine and they can learn there are also a huge achievement and a serious sacrifice that the Hungarian government is willing to make. We are also asking the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Hungarian Government to do everything they can to ensure that Hungarians in Transcarpathia are safe and preserved. This is a very difficult period now, but once the events in the specific military sense are completed, it will not be easy after that. After all, the search for scapegoats, the search for the inner enemy, has been an example of this, unfortunately, throughout historical times. So everything must be done to ensure the safety of Transcarpathian Hungarians. We can see that this is indeed a prolonged war. I also agree with those who view this period, this war as a typical case of hybrid warfare, and we have now achieved not only through pressure in the external diplomatic, financial, virtual world, to create a kind of internal chaos, to create an inner anarchy, but also to have concrete military, traditional military operations for more than a year now. But practically about ten years ago, this whole process began, which was shown in this type of increase and application of hybrid devices. I wrote myself a quote here from István Fekete. I think it's a very wise idea, let me tell you this. There's no war won or lost, there's only war! Destroying, killing, inhumane! Wars did not solve any problems, but they always sowed the seed of the next. Wars aren't started by a few people, but they don't fight and they don't die. Simple people kill each other, they fall into a pit of foreign land, and their homes are destroyed. They're the tools, and they're the victims. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, In this case, it is safe to say that the Ukrainian people are the victims, not for the first time in their history, many times. A country once worth 50 million became 18 million less, plus, well, over 100,000 people gave their lives. Of these 18 million who fled the war, 6 million fled to Russia. For the record, when the Russians are talking about home!, some people are talking about it. It's a much more complicated area and a much more complicated relationship, it's a sister war, it's about brothers and sisters, both in their faith and in their Slavicity. It is therefore very difficult to define identity. Obviously, when there is an external enemy or an internal enemy, it is always easier to bring cohesion together to create a national feeling and to develop identity. We encourage the government, and we also ask Parliament to do so in its own territory, so that peace can be concluded as soon as possible, there will be a ceasefire, there will be peace talks, because only these can bring peace. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-03-06-16	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Máté Kocsis, Head of the Group of Fidesz.
u2023-03-06-17	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Minister, I suggest you forget everything you've heard from behind your back, and if you've had enough open ears to hear their arguments, you'll understand why. You probably figured it out yourself, didn't you? One wonders why we disagree, why the left-wing representatives want to rewrite such a pro-peace declaration. I am pleased to hear that in a year they have come to the point that from the pro-war position at least here, within the walls of Parliament, they may not be quite honest, but they mention the word peace, but they were the ones who would have sent weapons and soldiers to the war a year ago, and they were also the ones who enthusiastically supported economic sanctions. [[Gergely Harvesto: You voted for it!]] [[13.50]] But I don't think that's the basis for the debate. That is the basis for the debate, Minister, and I think you have noticed that we are looking at this from a completely different angle. It was said that the V4 ally system would be sacrificed for the I don't know why. You have been sent to Russia at least three times now, two have told you not to go, three have told you to go, as if it were the reality that the Hungarian Foreign Minister would go to Moscow and say that Russian troops should withdraw [[Szabó Timea: Ouch!]] And then the Russians would do that. So all realities are not dealt with, but note that they are trying to rewrite the Hungarian decision with UN resolutions. There's only one thing that's clear: they're looking at it from a completely different perspective. This is a Hungarian position. The UN position is the UN's position. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó intervenes.]] The Hungarian Parliament cannot accept the UN resolution because it has already been adopted by the UN. But there is a Hungarian Parliament. Now I say something unusual: this is the Hungarian Parliament, gentlemen! You do not want to bring in international dimensions that completely eliminate the Hungarian position! There is a Hungarian position, the Hungarian Parliament... [[Ágnes Kunhalmi, Dr. Tamás Harangozó, Szabó Timea simultaneously intervenes.]] They're not in America. Don't yell at me. [[It's a rare applause on the pro-government side.]] How many dollars is a yelling? That's what I can tell you. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: How many dollars is a speech? Noise.]] I would just like to say, Minister, that the decision of the Hungarian Parliament reflects only the Hungarian position. We do not dispute it, and in this resolution, we repeat it again and again, and I quote, we condemn Russia's military aggression. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: That's right!]] This is not what the debate is about, but the fact that you have to think in a way that doesn't belong here. We represent the Hungarian position here. It should also be noted that, after we are members of a community, we are members of the European Union, which many other Member States of the community are carrying weapons and trying to guide us in this direction and even put us under political pressure, so it is necessary to put a Hungarian position, a Hungarian cornerstone, among the Member States of the European Union. This goes hand in hand with the position of the UN or other EU Member States, sometimes different from that. For example, I was very pleased to hear from more and more of them in assessing the situation of Transcarpathian Hungarians. None of the Member States of the European Union care about the Transcarpathian Hungarians except us. This problem doesn't come up any further than we do. For example, there is a difference, this is one of our positions, and obviously not the positions of the UN or other Member States. Summa summarum, I would just like to say, Minister, that, after this Hungarian Parliament and the Hungarian Parliament wish to accept a Hungarian pro-peace declaration, I began my speech to ignore what you heard behind your back, because other international aspects, for which there are many cases of dollars, are often something else. But now, aside from trying to make fun of the agenda, let me have one more thought. The incomprehensible thing is, when you say I'm about to tell you who said that to Congresswoman Szabó Timea... [[Szabó Timea: Oh, I'm honored! Intercom from the pro-government benches: CIA!]] I could say something rude right now, but I'm not. On the other hand, the Hungarian electorate must consider whether it was right that you, with your 0.1 percent party, represented a very obvious position here, not a Hungarian one. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: That's right!]] I'm asking you completely seriously... [[Szabó Timea: Oh, Matthew, better than this, please.]] My dear Timea, did you hate the residents at your previous station as much as you do now? You can't take that position... [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: Better!]] You can't take that position... [[Noise. Applause on the pro-government side.]] You can't take that position... My time is up, Mr. President. [[Gergely Harvesto: That's for sure!]] Let me finish a sentence. You have left out just the parts that are really important for our country. That's what I'm talking about, Congresswoman. Shame on you. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-03-06-18	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade Péter Szijjártó. It hurts my heart to say that the house rules have a five-minute time frame that the president can extend by a minute in his own jurisdiction. [[Gergely Harvester: Let's hear it!]] You have the floor.
u2023-03-06-19	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to note the joyful fact that in the Hungarian Parliament, the government also has the support of some of the opposition's parties when acting for the interests of the Hungarians in Transcarpathia. We thank the opposition parties who have made this clear here. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]] And those who have spoken of profits in relation to Transcarpathian Hungarians, I think they have brought nothing new into this debate compared to themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, What we have heard in the last half hour, I believe, has convinced us that some of the Members of Parliament are having an amazing struggle with their conscience and their inventions. [[Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi: They don't have one!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that you want me to go to Moscow now, but why have I been constantly criticized when I did this? [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] and there is only one party in the Hungarian Parliament whose president can say that the President of Russia has received the President of Russia in his own house. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: That's right! Gyurcsány!]] And Toto's dog wasn't sitting on our lap. [[Gergely Harvester: A dog of good taste!]] So I suggest caution on everyone's part when he reveals himself in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen, This war, this war, this war, has been condemned countless times by the Hungarian government and the Hungarian governing parties. [[Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] Give me a natural number every time you say it, and you'll hear it. [[Deterioration from the pro-government benches. Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] It is written in the resolution proposal submitted to the Parliament by the pro-government factions:, we repeatedly condemn Russia's military aggression and recognise Ukraine's right to self-defense. It's in there. [[Bence Rétvári: That's right, literally!]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is a clear sentence. [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] The question is, what doesn't make sense to you? Do you want me to read it again, or do you want to take the time to read the resolution proposal that is on the Parliament's table? One more question that I think might be the most important question in the Hungarian Parliament. Mr. Car Leader was kind enough to suggest that. Why is it important to look at all our existing positions through the glasses of an external actor? [[Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi: That's the question!]] Why is it important what the Russians think of a Hungarian position, why it is important what the Americans think of a Hungarian position, why it is important what the Ukrainians or anyone else think about a Hungarian national issue? Why is this important to you? [[Noise.]] Why does he come in? [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] Why does this aspect always come into your mind? Why can't they look at something at the same time on a national basis? [[Applause on the pro-government side.]] If we Hungarians, in European and global debates over the past period, had observed that. A. or B. and everyone who used to keep in touch with him, what would have happened, what would have happened? Today, arms shipments would pass through the territory of Hungary. Would we have wanted this? [[Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi: No!]] Then today Hungary would carry weapons into this war. Would we have wanted this? The vast majority of Hungarian people did not want to, because these questions were clearly raised in the parliamentary elections. You have taken a clear position to deliver weapons, let us transfer the shipments of weapons, don't give them to God, even send soldiers, and we have said that this can't be done, and the Hungarian people have decided on this question. I understand that you do not like this abroad, and I understand that the clients do not like this, but the Hungarian people have decided this issue permanently. Hungary stands on the side of peace, Hungary stands up for the Hungarians in Transcarpathia, Hungary does not supply weapons, and we are only interested in the interests of Hungary, the Hungarian people. Whether you like it or not, that's how it's gonna be in the next few years. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]] [[14.00]]
u2023-03-06-20	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We will continue our work with further speeches before the agenda. Antal Csárdi, Member of the LMP Group, applied for a pre-meeting address on our current affairs. [[Noise, several congressmen are leaving the meeting room.]] Before you begin your speech, Mr President, I would like to ask my fellow Members to leave the Chamber, preferably quietly, who do not wish to remain indoors. Thank you for your understanding. Congressman, the clock is about to start. You have the floor.
u2023-03-06-21	Dear House, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I expected Minister Szijjártó to talk before the agenda about announcing that the plan was abandoned to turn Hungary into a battery ring. After the Prime Minister agreed with us last week, at least in terms of words, to protect the soils, after it was perceived that public protests were increasing everywhere, perhaps after our call, they began to prepare an environmental impact assessment of the national battery strategy after a huge delay, and the government also realized that this crazy plan did not make the country a huge battery power, but there was enormous pollution. Unfortunately, we did not receive any such announcements, no arguments, no environmental impact assessment, no answers to our questions, but we did receive government and government dissemble, green painting, statements as spokesperson for multinational corporations. We have also received the fact that the European Commission is perfectly satisfied that the Hungarian government supports with tax-paying money that they pollute our agricultural land and poison our drinking water and make our country a landfill. All this by saying in his own words that the next period will be the food crisis. I also believe that we have received nothing but the creation of container cities called industrial parks, so that there is a sufficient amount of labour at all to carry out this task. I think that even if you try to fool me, you're trying to keep this plan under radar. They don't try because people see that their colonial plans are being implemented by the government. We, who are present with this case in the streets, in the markets, in residential forums, in public hearings, every day experience that there are more and more of us who understand exactly how dangerous it would be for Hungary if it became a battery ring. Not only in Debrecen, Foton, Iváncsán, Komárom, Saltkút, Nyíregyháza, Tatabánya, but also throughout the country and in Budapest. Contrary to you, honourable pro-government Members, we are there to listen to people's problems and concerns about this insane plan. Dear House, The Fidesz government doesn't want to listen to people's opinions. They want to be silenced. It's facing what we green people think of the world from all directions. That is why we have submitted a national referendum initiative so that the Hungarian people can say that we cannot turn our country into a battery ring and a landfill for Europe. You can't live up to our natural treasures, ruin our farmland and poison our water resources! We have seen eloquent evidence of silence in Debrecen, but the same wrong and wrong tactics are being pursued in Győr, among other things. The municipality of Győr together with the government wants to establish an industrial park in the largest part of Győr town, in Győrszentiván, in four million square meters, without asking the people. The area is classified as hazardous industrial area, which assumes the construction of a highly polluting battery plant. The civilians, the local residents, protest against the investment. I think the voice of this protest must reach the government. We, the Greens, do not give evasive answers, we hear the opinion of the Győrians, and we help them with all our means. Therefore, on March 20, we are waiting for everyone who wants to raise their voice against this kind of installation of battery production; we are waiting for everyone who wants to protest to turn our country into a battery ring. As a green party in Hungary, we have a responsibility and a duty. It is our responsibility to stand up for our future and to stand up for local residents and civilians. We'll do that. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of LMP and MSZP.]]
u2023-03-06-22	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, responds. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2023-03-06-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Deputy Chief of Staff, Thank you very much for raising this issue here again in Parliament, because I think there is agreement on many points between the Government of Hungary and the Hungarian Green Party, such as the need to protect our environment, this planet, and to allow the generations that follow us to live healthy on this planet. At the same time, different green targets need to be met. And I think we also agree that meeting the green targets that we have set at European level is not possible without a significant restructuring of transport. I think we can agree on that. Transport is one of the main sources of emissions today. For the time being, there is a consensus that in order to protect the environment, emissions of environmentally harmful substances can be reduced by replacing conventional motor vehicles with electric vehicles. I think everyone can see that there is no electric car without an electric battery, so without an electric battery there is no electric car ride, no falling emissions in traffic without an electric car. This is probably what Commissioner Frans Timmermans, Vice-President of the European Commission, has probably thought about, who has called on the European Union to produce mass electric accumulators in recent days. Dear fellow Member, I also agree with you that we must accept with understanding the doubts and concerns expressed by local communities, as there is nothing more important to man than the possibility of a healthy life in his microenvironment, his living environment. That is why I find it extremely irresponsible, Vice-President of the Group, when you are trying to scare people with completely uncredited and incorrect data. And please allow us to speak straight, clear and honest on this matter here. You're accusing the Debrecen battery plant of putting the Debrecen water base in jeopardy. Now, the replacement of the Debrecen water base is currently 75,000 cubic meters per day. The water demand of the city of Debrecen is 40,000 cubic meters per day, in the 1980s, when the socialist industry rang, the city consumed 90,000 cubic metres of water. Compared to this, the water demand of the new battery plant will average 3378 cubic metres; it will be 3378 cubic metres! In addition, I respectfully draw your attention to the fact that the Debrecen Assembly adopted last June with unanimous support from opposition representatives to build an industrial infrastructure in the southern industrial zone in Debrecen, which allows the use of a total of 24 thousand cubic meters of water; so the opposition representatives voted for this. Then, Congressman, let me give you an example in Komárom. You refer to the production of electric accumulators as possible in the future, and therefore to a mysterious story not known by anyone. Today Hungary has the fourth largest capacity in the world for the production of electric accumulators. In my Komárno, the daily water use of the battery factory there is daily water use! The Danube is five-second five-second! is equivalent to its water yield. You said Fot in Göd, maybe you wanted Göd, if you didn't, I apologize - so Göd has a large battery factory that uses 100% grey water to work, and Göd treats precipitation water, sewage and clean water in hermetically isolated systems. [[14.10]] Well, honourable Member, there is a huge competition in the world for these electric battery companies. In Germany, one of the local ministers of the Green Party in Thuringia personally gave us the environmental permit, but we don't have to care, because they are the Germans and we are the Hungarians. [[Szabó Timea and Szabó Rebekah intervene.]] However, if you are calling for these large battery factories to be built elsewhere in other European countries, then you are calling for these high added value jobs to be different... [[Antal Csárdi intervenes.]] But don't feel sorry for the Hungarian workers, I'm asking you. [[Antal Csárdi: I don't regret it! It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] This may seem to be the case from here in the inner districts of Budapest, but I think it is wrong to feel sorry for the activities of Hungarian workers. So I repeat once again, Mr President, the sentence, if I may, and that concludes it. [[Szabó Timea: Then why are Vietnamese workers coming?]] I'll wait for Szabó Timea to tell you his story, because that's his speech, if we understand correctly. [[Szabó Timea: No, I'm asking the questions!]] So those who urge these factories, these thousands of jobs, to be created elsewhere. [[Szabó Timea: Time's up!]] then they serve the interests of other countries. Unfortunately, this is nothing new in today's debates. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-06-24	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Imre Jámbor, on behalf of the Group of the Dialogue, applied for a pre-meeting speech entitled "On Current Affairs." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-03-06-25	Thank you for the floor. Antal Rogán, Ádám Nagy, Péter Cseresnyés, Péter Csizi, Kristóf Szatmáry, Attila Gelencsér, Judit Varga, Gábor Kubatov, László Trócsányi and Mariann Water East [[Moraj, interrogations from the ruling parties.]] They are the ones whose names are in some way, in some way, affected by the Völner-Schadl case, the executor's mafia case, and they are the ones we don't see that any investigation is going on, most of them have not even been interviewed as witnesses, nor have they been referred to by the various members of the Justice Department in their testimony as part of this case. This morning, in the Justice Committee, I have been voted down for the fourth time in my proposal to settle the case of the enforcement mafia, not just this corruption thread, because we are talking here about three different things: we are talking about perpetrators, we are talking about a system and we are talking about victims. As I said at the committee meeting, I would like to ask you, my fellow Members of the Fidesz, to indicate at least one thing that you support from this proposal. I understand that they do not support the eradication of political corruption, but at least, let us say, support that those who have been victims of this mob in the last 12 and 30 years will receive some kind of compensation. After all, the Faculty of Executives was created by the Hungarian State and supervised by the Hungarian State, which, among other things, was formed by Antal Rogán. So it is that if errors and omissions have occurred here, and we see that errors and omissions have occurred, then the Hungarian State has a responsibility in this regard. We also see that the executive law, which is a little difficult to say, is adopted regardless of the case listed above, because it is very difficult not to see a connection in this mafia-like system and in the adopted executive law, so this law should be practically thrown out the way it is and a new law should be passed instead. I am not only thinking of the things that have been said many times, how it is possible that someone's house is put out for auction, that his request for execution has not yet been run, that an object can be auctioned for 1% of the value in the case of the law, but also that the abuse of, for example, what charges are charged by the executives, how they put it on a note of the wind, why there is virtually no appeal against it, and that there is that the remedies, questions that even entered the Ministry about the Executive Faculty have not actually led to anything, and that the supervisory body that you created over the Executive Faculty, or what was previously, has actually done nothing in these matters. I would like to ask you to at least allow us to look at these matters in a different way, if not in committee, because there are many stories that I think will affect you if you get to know them. There are quite a lot of individual Members sitting here, I cannot believe that they do not encounter at least one implementation case per week. Say, with a family of three kids with leukemia, and that's why the dad couldn't work, a large amount of debt came up, after which they became undocumented housing users, and so they weren't eligible for social support, practically nothing. Now, both parents are working because fortunately, the baby is cured, but the thing is, they're pulling off a third of their salary. How can they continue their lives like this? How to pay off your debt? How can they return to normal life? I am very pleased that in November you have increased the maximum that can be achieved by deduction here in debt repayment, but we see a lot of things that have a problem here. If my fellow Members started here by shouting at the beginning of the speech, we can see that, in spite of the names listed above, there are specific witnesses, concrete wiretap materials are available, such as Secretary Völner, but other names could also be said, he is free to defend himself. One of our members was arrested three weeks ago by liking a legally announced event on Facebook and arresting him for the identity of two Decathlon clothing items, including because they said he was the liaison of foreign antifa groups. This woman doesn't speak foreign languages, it's a little hard to say that she's the liaison, say, to a German antifa group. [[The First of Novak:...terrorist! The president's ringing the bell.]] That's something to add in addition. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] That the D.A.'s office has terminated this coercion in a very unusual way. Anyone who knows about criminal proceedings knows that the D.A. doesn't intervene like that...
u2023-03-06-26	Thank you, Congressman.
u2023-03-06-27	The D.A.'s office said that with more evidence...
u2023-03-06-28	Thank you very much. Your time is up.
u2023-03-06-29	... toss out this coercive measure. One more. I think there's a strong difference between... [[The president's gonna turn off the speaker's mic.]]
u2023-03-06-30	Mr. Congressman, unfortunately, your time limit has expired quite strongly. Thank you very much. Would you mind picking up your thoughts? Thank you. [[Applause in the lines of MSZP, Dialogue and LMP.]] Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Répássy Róbert, Secretary of State, who wishes to answer on behalf of the government. Here you go.
u2023-03-06-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Although this is a meeting of the Parliament, and it is not our job to discuss crimes, and to decide who is guilty, it is the task of another branch of power, but I think that, since you have mentioned it, I would like to express my outrage at the fact that one of your colleagues, a member of the Szikkra Movement, is currently standing before the investigating authority on suspicion of a crime in which eight masked men who are seeking work beat the brains out of them. There's been footage of him. Unfortunately, this has been going around video-sharing sites. It is clear that the attackers attacked this man from behind for no reason, he was beaten and kicked for minutes with a viper, sprayed with gas spray, and kicked the man on the ground. This series of attacks has come up not in the case of one person, but in the case of more than one person. [[An intervention from the ranks of our country.]] One of your suspects is one of your campaign supporters, who you referred to as Krisztina, on social media sites. Speaking of which, I can say again that this is a serious crime, a hate crime. No matter what ideology, hate crimes are severely punished by Hungarian criminal law. So I think that you have at least missed enough sentences to distance yourself from hate crimes, be it against anyone and from any motivation, either the left or the right, or rather I would say that hate crimes on either the far right or the far left cannot be allowed in Hungary. I ask that you be kept separate from such a crime everywhere, even here at the Parliament meeting, and then what you say will be authentic. And what you said about the other criminal proceedings, I can tell you, which I have already replied in writing to some Members, perhaps also to you, that you are quoting evidence of a criminal proceedings, evidence of ongoing or ongoing criminal proceedings, and that the assessment of these evidence is not within our jurisdiction. It is the investigating authority, the prosecutor's office and the court that evaluates these evidence, and this will happen, as the prosecution has prosecuted this prosecution. I ask you to respect the independence of the judiciary and not to influence the ongoing judicial proceedings. The government does not give an opinion on an ongoing prosecution. I therefore ask the honourable Member to set the same standard if he sees a crime somewhere and is justified in raising his voice against this crime, even if he is one of your campaign helpers or at all anyone who may not have been identified. It would be better for you to raise your voice against these people, because hate crime is also punishable if you happen to commit hate crimes against someone based on an ideology that might please you. [[14.20]] Honourable Congressman, Before last week's agenda, the Prime Minister indicated that if you have a proposal to reform the implementation, you should submit it to Parliament. The Parliament will do so in due course of procedure to discuss it. I can't help it now that one of your proposals was considered inappropriate by the Justice Committee to negotiate with Parliament. Make a better suggestion, and then perhaps the Parliament will negotiate. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-06-32	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr László Toroczkai, Head of the Group, Mi Hazank Group, asked for a pre-meeting address with the title of "current public affairs." You have the floor.
u2023-03-06-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am very pleased that András Jámbor spoke before me and brought up left-wing terrorism in Hungary. I will also talk about this, but first I would like to point out to the representative of the government that, before he responds, he does not want to intervene in various pending criminal proceedings, that I will, on the one hand, be talking about the responsibility of secret services, about various public security matters, or that we are simply talking about different matters, but also about the fact that, for the second time this weekend, we are hearing the news from Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, not only about the emergence of subjective security and not only about the emergence of left-wing terrorism, but also because we are hearing the news from Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, for the second time on the weekend, about the amazing crimes that are happening, the incidents of public peace. So the secret services are under government control. I would also like to talk about how the heads of various police departments act, how they behave in the case of such a crime. With regard to the appointment of police captains, there is a mandate for the government. I will also talk about the courts and, in the case of courts, for example, in the case of the National Court of Justice, it would be difficult to say that the government had nothing to do with it. And then I didn't go to the D.A.'s office. Everyone knows how the D.A.'s office is held by the government. So, let's start with the many, many, and now, in general, matters that have a serious impact on people's subjective sense of security. If we already have our fellow Member, Mr András Jámbor, then let us begin by saying that, on the one hand, the fact that there is not only a hate crime in Hungary, but terrorism, it raises the government, raises the Office for the Protection of the Constitution, raises the very serious responsibility of the secret services. For what we know now is that foreign groups have appeared here, their fellow Hungarians and, in this case, the Andrews Jámbor have a very serious political responsibility at their invitation here in Hungary, who, for example, have been known for a long time to the German authorities. So you know them by name. The last time in January was the same attack in Erfurt in Budapest. So we're talking about an organized terrorist group that is known in international relations to the authorities. So I ask you again because I asked this question once before, but I didn't get an answer, and I would like to get an answer to this: what did the secret services responsible for the security of the Hungarians and the Hungarian nation, what did the Constitutional Protection Office do, how could these terrorists travel to Hungary to invite their friends of principle in Hungary? And the other thing is, we know at least 15 unsubs. How many of the 15 are currently under arrest? On my count, I think it's two. This means that even a lot of perpetrators have not been identified, although, obviously, not only the former D. Krisztina, András Jámbor and Bence Tordai may be suspected of this case, but we know more about Hungarians in Hungary. So I ask you, what do the different organs do, what does the investigating authority do? Then it seems that there was no change of government in this country in 2010, and then we cannot talk about a change of regime, but it seems like there is still such an MSZP-SZDSZ government in Hungary, for example, if we look at the fact that at present there is a young man, Gábor Barcsa-Turner, who published a poster of 56 and accused them of violence against a member of the minimum community by burning the various communist symbols and the flag of the LGBTQ political movement. Otherwise, there was no flag burning. It seems that there is money for this in Hungary to launch criminal proceedings, and that is what the court should do. Then there was the case of the field guards in Sokotthal, who were also brought to justice for stopping members of a group of migrants who had invaded the farmhouses who had also arrived there because these migrants had also disturbed the operation of the hunting company that was hunting there. The field guards have been brought to justice, they've been accused, they've been convicted. A series of proceedings were launched against the leader of the Hungarian Self-Defense Movement, and for example, he was prosecuted by the Chief Constable of the Forge House, and against the local inhabitants of Mezőhegyes, and even their children were tried to be taken away from them, who marched, participated in a protest because a local, otherwise gypsy-born man murdered a family father with four children in brutal conditions. After that, the Blacksmith Police Commissioner Sava Vince. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] I don't know what kind of legitimacy he's got, he's being greeted, and protesting Hungarians are being prosecuted. I would like to respond to the fact that Hungary is still Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-03-06-34	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2023-03-06-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, He gave me a broad table of contents, but then he only had time for a part of it, because about a quarter of his speech was taken by the presentation of the table of contents. [[László Toroczkai intervenes.]] But seriously, I think we will have the opportunity to talk about this here, in the walls of Parliament, because it is really unacceptable for people to act violently and aggressively on the Hungarian streets, trying to provoke fear on the streets with the known methods of the antifa movement. Just as it was unacceptable for us when the Hungarian Guard said that he would maintain order on the street, it is equally unacceptable that some members of the antifa movement, which is also behind left-wing parties, simply threaten not only violence but also violence. Those who were so loud in the Hungarian Guard case and ran straight to Brussels because of the threat of violence [[Intercoms from the ranks of our country.]] In the case of the anti-fa movement, they are silently silent, rather than taking a rights defender's position, and they start to explain what part of left-wing philosophy this is. In addition, the parties that have always spoken and protested in all similar cases, are now when it comes to anti-wood, and it turns out that there are photos with them, and these parties, who are currently committing all kinds of attacks with foreigners on the streets of Budapest in the anti-fa movement, have already collected signatures for left-wing politicians, and have taken photos with them, posters and posters. In Hungarian, as always in history, because this is not news, because it has always been so, the XXI. In the first century, the left and these militant organizations connect, but it is different in history, in so far as it is now through technical tools and by uploading these images themselves on Facebook, it is now much more visible to everyone. At a time when we are really living in a time of danger, and from war to sanctions, until the energy crisis, there are many other difficulties in our country, there is no need for paramilitary troops from Germany and Italy to come here and recruit Hungarians and hit people on the streets of Budapest. So no such activity has zero tolerance for these people. All violent crimes can be said, in such cases the Hungarian police have zero tolerance, unacceptable. Hungarian law enforcement is the responsibility of the Hungarian police. [[14.30]] Neither Guardians, antiphasists, any other terrorist organization or voluntary team can do this, only the police can do this in Hungary. As you pointed out, there were several attacks: the first one was at the Western Railway Station, the female perpetrator sprayed a man of Hungarian nationality with chemical; the second attack on 9 February attacked the man who was the victim with a viper and gas spray on the same day; the fourth attack was on Bank Street, a middle-aged Hungarian party was attacked, the victim suffered serious injuries; the fifth attack was on the morning of February 11th, in Mikó Street, District I, a German party was attacked. Which shows the cowardice and depravity of the attacks, and the fact that most of the time, they attack from behind. This makes these crimes even more vile, so to speak, by trying to force the person to the ground from behind, or by attacking him with a viper, in most cases, near the knee, a blow to the foot is struck to get the person on the ground, and then more are attacked, whether by metal sticks or vipers, even more so on the ground. And so that they can't identify who the attacker was, who attacked from behind, then they usually spray pepper spray, or the witnesses who show up in the area will be sprayed with pepper spray so they can't identify them. As I said, the police immediately performed, within 48 hours, four suspected perpetrators were apprehended. The BRFK has formed a dedicated investigative team to map this. Here, as I mentioned, there is a man of 29 years of German citizenship, a 26-year-old woman of German nationality, a 38-year-old woman of Italian nationality, and I could continue the line. They are clearly from abroad, on the Internet or otherwise organised extremist troops, who have apparently long known campaign activists linked to either MP Jámbor or Congressman Bence Tordai, who are part of their team, and here they are united in aggressive acts on the streets of Budapest, which are quite simply unacceptable. And I don't know why left-wing parties and so-called legal protection organisations are silent when there is a mass violence on the streets of Budapest that hasn't happened in many years. The Hungarian police will act against this in the strictest way, and we regret that the Hungarian left will support this with its silence. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-06-36	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. [[For signal:]] Dear Parliament, [[On the sign of András Jámbor:]] I would like to inform Mr András Jámbor that after the agenda, he will have the opportunity to speak on a point of order. Dear Parliament, Speaking before the agenda, Mr László György Lukács, Jobbik Group asked for an address on current affairs. You have the floor.
u2023-03-06-37	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. It is important to start with a statement [[Bence Rétvári points to Vitalos Eszter.]] Madam Secretary of State, my fellow Member, secretary of state, Mrs Retvári, and Minister, are right, but we could continue the line. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] It's not the polite circles that matter. It's the sentence of the movement. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: Let's hear it!]] I want us to end the executive business. Because the past few weeks, or even the events of the last week, have shown that if there are any doubts about a public body, and someone thinks that there is a need to intervene by law in the ordering of the public body's life, then the governing parties are reacting quite quickly; this is how we dealt with the Hungarian Medical Chamber. However, you can see from the moon, as you say, that something about the executive chamber around the executive board is very wrong. The Schadl-Völner case was one of the hottest cases of the past period, in which the president of the executive chamber himself was confident that he was essentially running a mob organization. It was a well-organized system of organisation, actually designed to commit crimes, and he himself, as president of this organization, represented and organised principles that are incompatible not only with the rule of law criterion, not only with the legal profession, but with everything that people expect from an organisation that exercises public authority. In fact, it should also be seen that this is perhaps the greatest government scandal of all time, as it has been affected to the neck by many people from around the House of the Ministry of Justice. We could also say that we may live to see the days when the rabbimobile will wait in front of the Ministry of Justice and wait for those who know for what reason János Völner, Pál Völner, forgive! [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] He's gonna subpoena me for his trial. But who knows for what reason, as a witness, or as a witness against him, perhaps to prove his involvement in his criminal organization. It is clear from what is happening, social outrage. The negative judgements in the case point in the direction that the system needs to be improved. In the past, you have touched this system, and we have also seen that the executive system has failed with you before, and it seems that from now on ministers are involved. It is also apparent that as you organized the enforcement system, you have been working with an ever-increasing number of cases. In 2008, before you were in the government, there were 212 thousand cases, in 2012, 478 thousand cases, and in 2021, 799 thousand cases were dealt with by independent bailiffs, those who assisted in the material destruction of Hungarian people, the financial destruction of the smallest Hungarian businesses. And it is not enough that they did this job, we see it as the boss, and we can see from the operating system of the executives involved in it, that they could actually receive executive practice, those who could steal money from people, they could get the Fidesz's fag from them, who paid well György Schadl, who had 40-80 million forints, which were reclaimed. It is also apparent that a practice of this kind could generate a hundred million revenues, from which it was necessary to redistribute. It also happened at this time, and I am sorry, it is almost unprecedented, from Paul Völner's telephone conversation it became clear that you wanted to attempt to discredit the political rival, the political rival. Tibor Nunkovics, then Member of Parliament, I stress that he was then a Member of Parliament, who the Hungarian services should protect against such things, so he wanted to frame this representative only because of his political work, taking advantage of the system of executive relations, Pál Völner; otherwise, with something he did not do and which Paul Völner did after him when bidding on the house of foreign exchange taxers with an impeccably low price. The question is, once again, when will the system change? But in order for the system to change, let's make some suggestions. The Jobbik-Conservatives are proposing and we have long proposed that the whole implementation system, as it is, should be subject to state control, should be voted in favour of judicial enforcement as a public body. There was an example of this, it worked, it exercised public authority, and people trusted it. In fact, the entire Faculty of Executives, who are now involved, must undergo due diligence, as each of you may have been involved in some way in this extensive criminal organization. The Executive Faculty and its members clearly have lost their legitimacy towards the people and refer to a public authority that is not behind them. It is in our interest to transform this system, the profit-oriented system, and finally to make it something that people can trust, and in which institutionalized corruption will not overwhelm it. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2023-03-06-38	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government... [[Dr. Répássy, Róbert Répássy. Defiance.]] Répássy Róbert Sorry! I ask for your understanding, Mr Secretary, only Deputy Minister Rétvári has been notified to me in advance, so I have been thinking. Répássy Róbert, Secretary of State, responds. You have the floor.
u2023-03-06-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Members, gentlemen and ladies, In recent moments, the speaker again made the mistake of having the Parliament condemn the evidence of criminal proceedings or of evaluating the evidence. I think that the Hungarian constitutional order is clear, the functioning of the Hungarian state is based on the principle of division of power, which means that only the investigating authority, the prosecutor's office and the court can assess the evidence of a criminal proceeding. [[Dr. László György Lu-kács: It is not worth protecting Pál Völner!]] And in this case, the case you mentioned was indicted, and the court is currently prosecuting. So the question is, what do you think of some evidence, I have to say, from the point of view of criminal proceedings, let's just say, it's not significant. [[Dr. László György Lukács: You have removed documents!]] and then the prosecution authorities decide on the strength of evidence. [[14.40]] On the other hand, it is surprisingly inconsistent for you to suggest that if members of a community have been prosecuted and convicted in criminal proceedings, for example, let us review this profession. When I think of your party, Jobbik's MEP was convicted, if I remember correctly, for espionage. [[Dr. László György Lukács: We forgot...]] Does that mean that all the good guys will have to be vetted, do you think? [[Dr. László György Lukács: Because we are not being screened?]] So with your logic, then, it would be appropriate to search or scan all the goodies, because there must be someone who was in contact with the condemned representative and the rest. So this whole voodoo thing that you've done here and stabbing a voodoo puppet may not be worthy of the National Assembly. And I can only confirm that if you have a bill, you have a new idea for a new enforcement law, you should submit it to Parliament. The way to do this is to be examined by the Committee on Justice of the Parliament, and if it is a well-founded and well-defined proposal, it may be on the subject series of Parliaments. I ask you to accept my answer, and I suggest that, in the future, we watch together that criminal proceedings, the court proceedings that will surely end up giving you satisfying answers. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-03-06-40	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Imre Komjáthi, MSZP Group, addressed to the pre-meeting address on the current issues. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-03-06-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, There's one thing I'm going to tell you today, and it's security. When I miss safety, I think that we should be able to go down to the store with milk, flour, sugar, and that we should not accept that the masses of our countrymen cannot buy basic food. We say that you are safe if you are able to take care of yourself and your loved ones through your work. During the 13 years of NER, the environment of some large factories was the permanent reference to see that we solved the employment problems. The reality is, on the other hand, that crowds have blocked the path of prosperity. How good do you think it is that crowds of designers, masons and Hungarians are being dragged out of the country? Of course, there's a gasman who takes a private jet on vacation, but he's an exception. What future awaits the nation where apostolic poverty is to be received by a teacher? The pizza delivery guy, the journalist, and the gardener are just as insecure, and they're being dragged around. Let people work, and don't have any new government ideas every week, which you'll have to announce very quickly on Facebook. We want a country where the entrepreneur can plan for years, not turn his life upside down with changed tax laws during the year. We want a Hungary where the worker cannot be eviscerated, eviscerated; where there are strong trade unions, because where there are strong trade unions, there is a wage fight and more for the worker. I can list the problems by nightfall, but we are socialists, we have to deal with solutions. We have these solutions in order, which you will vote off and sweep off the table. These are left-wing solutions, real left-wing solutions, let's be honest. For example, according to the MSZP, there should be a radical change in tax policy, but the Fidesz government refuses to support this. We say that the minimum wage should be tax-free; the VAT on basic foods should be zero per cent; the extra VAT on food, which is currently 4.1 per cent, must be abolished; after the tax reduction, the public authority should check the decrease in prices. Small-scale shops and small-scale producers should receive public compensation for losses caused by price caps. And one important thing, from this, let's say, last time the Secretary of State of Tállai was a little frozen, but we say that as long as food is so expensive, price caps for food should be maintained and extended. The government does not care at all about the fate of small pensioners and those living in poverty, because if they were interested, they would answer our questions about what they are doing to keep pensions from breaking away from wages. Why doesn't the government help half a million pensioners whose care is less than 100,000 forints? [[Interjection from the benches of the governing parties: Why did you take the pension?]] And why don't you raise the minimum pension that's just been renamed as a social screening fund? Is this just another screening? Or why doesn't the care fee increase even as much as pensions, not to mention frozen family allowances? These questions remain questions. I have six children raised in honor and love, and as co-chair and representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, I can offer the same country by my party that runs our big family. There will always be a roof over your head. There'll always be hot food on the table. There will always be someone to take care of you if you are sick; there will be medicine for trouble. Your shoes aren't gonna be leaky, and your coat's not gonna be windy. You can be who you want to be. We'll always get your opinion. You can learn, learn the world; you can choose life for yourself, a useful and happy life. Your nation will be proud of you and you will be proud of Hungary. And you're welcome to walk high because your father will always be there to catch you, encourage you, and keep you. Security for Hungarians, security for pensioners, security for young people, this is what the Hungarian Socialist Party, the real left-wing party, wants. And I stress this because it is a real left-wing party, because there usually comes a secretary of state who answers to me and reads all the sins of the Gyurcsány government in leather binding, but you are now spoken to by the Hungarian Socialist Party's true left-wing co-chair and true left-wing representative. I ask you to respond in light of this. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the benches of MSZP.]]
u2023-03-06-42	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Péter Szijjártó wishes to respond to what has been said. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2023-03-06-43	Honourable Congressman, Dear Mr. Co-President, Thank you very much for putting a very important question on the Parliament's table. I wouldn't want to read criminal records, but I would like to mention that this country has already tried the idea and proposals of socialist economic policy until 2010 and the minimum is to say that it didn't work out well, given that in 2010 there was about 12 percent unemployment in Hungary and 1 million fewer people had a job than it currently is. And with you, as co-president of the Socialist Party, you often bring up issues related to the world of work, I must think that we agree that the saying that if there is work, everything is very close to reality, given that the security, the security of living that you have put here in your speech on the agenda of the Parliament can bring it to work. That is why in 2010 we decided to take a completely opposite direction to socialist governance and economic policy and create a work-based economy. And the basis for this work-based economy, Mr Co-President, ladies and gentlemen, is that, on a European scale, we apply the lowest tax burden on labour in Hungary. So when you propose a change to the tax system, we cannot see it as something other than that you would suggest an increase in the tax burden on work, which would lead to fewer people at work and higher unemployment. Dear Mr. Co-President, You, too, are obviously pleased with the fact that since 2010, the real value of net earnings in Hungary has increased by 70%. Obviously, you are also pleased with the fact that the minimum wage has tripled from January 2010 onwards, and therefore the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage are higher than the average wage before 2010. I think that this performance cannot be taken from Hungary, the Hungarian people. [[14.50]] I say this because, today, Hungary is in such an economic situation, thanks to the performance of the Hungarian people, the work of the Hungarian people. And it is thanks to the fact that we can now say for more than seven months that there are more than 4.7 million people working in Hungary. If not so many people were working in Hungary, there would not have been more than 4.5 percent economic growth last year, which was a black year of the world economy. In addition, the co-chair remembers it, because the world economy has been on its head twice in the last three years, first Covid, then the war has put the economy in a very difficult position, and here in Hungary we have been able to come out of these crisis situations more strongly than we have in the past three years because we have focused on protecting people's jobs. So there is a very, very important conceptual difference in what to fund. You often ask us to finance unemployment, and we say that we should finance unemployment prevention and rather finance the protection of jobs. That is why we provide so much support for investments, because these investments create jobs in Hungary. And I would ask you to join forces to ensure that there are no voices here in Parliament that would rather invest in other countries, because if investments go to other countries, factories will be built in other countries, they will create jobs and bring that security to the people you are right to talk about, and what it requires for the Hungarian people. Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, Let me tell you that last year, despite the fact that the world economy had a black year, the Hungarian economy has achieved a master threesome, because never more investment and job creation has come to Hungary than last year in one year; the Hungarian economy has never exported as much thanks to the performance of Hungarian people as last year; and as many people have never worked in Hungary as last year. Let us be proud of these results together, which are incomparably better than they were before 2010. But thank you again, Mr President, for bringing up this important issue. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-03-06-44	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Löcsei, Member of the Momentum Group, has applied for a pre-meeting address with the title of current affairs. You have the floor.
u2023-03-06-45	Thank you for the floor. I believe that one of the most important tasks of a Member of Parliament is to represent the opinion and will of voters at local level and here at Parliament. As a strong county congressman, I do the same now when I voice the opinion of thousands of Eger voters. It's about the trail of the Eger bypass. The Eger people say thank you very much, but they don't ask for it out of the unreasonable will imposed on them. Because they want to decide what trail they want. Let's just say the truth. Most of the Eger residents have a simple, clear, understandable view: air pollution must be removed, traffic must be removed from the city, not transferred to another part of the city. The inhabitants of the affected parts of the city do not ask for smog, noise, or the reduction of the value of their property. Don't do any more damage to the Egers. There was a community design that could have been exemplary at national level. Based on professional considerations, NIF Zrt. He's prepared two trail plans for the east side of the city. It is important to stress that the Eger residents did not have to make a professional decision. The promise was that the opinion of the Egerians would be taken into account, in Hungarian, the detour version that the Eger residents prefer from among the two who are professionally qualified. But in spite of the decision made last summer by the Egerians expressing their opinion in a ratio of more than three-quarters that the state should implement the external trail, for some reason their local MP, Dr. Gábor Pupík, does not stand in favour of the decision of the Eger residents, because he prefers a slower, more polluting internal trail. There are legitimate questions: what interest does Gábor Press have in insisting on the inner trail rejected by the Eger? Why not represent the interests of Eger and the Eger? What could be the reason why you're confronting the people of your own constituency? Why do you think you need to solve a case with strength that will affect the lives of the children and grandchildren of those living there? Any interest along the inner trail? These are very important questions on which I hope we will get answers as soon as possible. Until then, there is only one solution for the electorate in Eger, and the only option is not to decide over their heads: this is the local referendum. Egri civilians have started a referendum initiative and have formulated three issues that have been adopted. The Egerians can give an opinion on three issues: the first is that they want to avoid the road; the second is that if there is a bypass, the external trail should be built rather than the internal trail; the third question is that the municipality should examine the possibility of a western bypass trail. I believe that these issues meet the needs of the entire population in Eger. I would also like to send a message to the people of Eger to participate as many as possible in this initiative, and do not allow your will to be ignored. Unfortunately, bad decisions have already been made on the roads in the region. For example, they paid for the M25 road, which led to the return of the car traffic to Maklar and Andornaktálya. Don't make another mistake. And I would like to ask Mr Presses not to attack the Eger civilians and the Eger Momentum with slippings and disparaging, but to stand by the Egers and support their referendum initiative. Because I believe that it is the duty of every Eger and every democratic thinker to stand up for a local referendum where people can express their views. That's why I've also brought Mr. Press signs, but I don't see him in here; I guess he'll come back to press the button, too. [[Moraj, interrogations in the ranks of the ruling parties. Bence Rétvári: Where's your faction? Where are the other moments?]] And I'd like to give it to him to sign the recommendation forms, and I ask with great respect that he finally join the Eger. Thank you for the floor.
u2023-03-06-46	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds. You have the floor.
u2023-03-06-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Allow me to answer briefly. When the government decides on developments, it has to take into account a number of aspects: development aspects; where to build and where to develop; environmental aspects, industrial development aspects; commuting aspects, how to commute people around Eger, which are local needs; and what noise load is like. I would like to ensure that these aspects are taken into account by the government for each development. If you predict that you are interested in the details of a local matter and give the respect that it raises the subject, then you can be sure that the competent Secretary of State or Minister will give you much more detailed information, because you should be sure that we want to enforce these aspects together, most importantly: that each development is in the best interests of the people living on the ground, in this case the people living in Eger. If you have an initiative, either a concrete proposal or a referendum initiative, or a specific professional proposal, go ahead. That's what I can say. Many times, however, we find that individual opposition parties are unable to come to terms with each other about what they want a referendum on and what they do not. For example, in the case of the battery factory, we know very well that there are left-wing parties who would like a referendum, some who do not want a referendum. I do not want to say anything, but if I can only make one suggestion, it is worth discussing first in their own circle that they would like to propose something concrete or even a referendum. If you wish, there are absolutely clear rules on the conditions under which a referendum can be launched in Hungary. As a representative of the government, I do not wish to interfere in your debate with the elected Member. I find it a little unworthy to bring the two of you into the debate before the agenda. [[Eszter Vitalos: That's right!]] He's got a soul. [[15.00]] I would just like to say one thing: who can represent the people of Eger is always elected by the electorate. This was the case in the last elections, as it was in April last year, and the Fidesz-KDNP representative was awarded a large and large majority of their trust. I'm asking you to respect that. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-06-48	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Arató, MEP, DK Group, has applied for a pre-meeting address. You have the floor.
u2023-03-06-49	Dear House, It is worth taking a little more calm with the government's activities. I would like to highlight today in a multifaceted way what the government is doing with this country. This time, I called for the latest Eurostat survey, which looked at what individual EU Member States spend most on their budgets, in proportion to GDP, so what they spend a lot and what they spend little of all the national products they produce. What do you think is the area where Hungary is among the first to use our common resources? Education, culture, social affairs? No, my fellow Members. Hungary is one of Europe's top riders in bureaucratic spending and the state's costs. We're spending 8 percent on the operation of the state, the vast number of state ministers, deputy state secretary, office and other leeches. And indeed, this amount, this 8 percent, is more than the budget is spending on education or health care. For you bureaucracy is more important than education, bureaucracy is more important than health care. There is an area where we are absolutely first, and this is the support of the church, sport, culture, leisure time. We might as well be happy to say that they spend a lot of it on culture. That is not the case, my fellow Members. More funds have just been taken from cultural institutions. In fact, the crucial part of this is support for church and sport, the purchase of political allies and the satisfaction and service of your hobbies. To understand the proportions again, we spend 1.5 times as much on this area as on public security and law enforcement, on the safety of people, and three times as much on environmental protection from this budget. And what is it that we spend little on? I have mentioned education and health, but here is another area: social expenditure, social equality, social justice. Now, that's not important to your government. 13 per cent of GDP goes to this goal today, while the EU average is 18 per cent. We have also been above the EU average. Do you know when? In 2010, at the end of the left-wing government so condemned by you, this ratio was more than 20 percent. You spend less than half of what the left-wing government has spent on social assistance. Ladies and gentlemen, Why did I bring these numbers here? To tell you there's an alternative. There's a different way to do this. According to the shadow government, it should not be spent on bureaucracy, churches and not on competition sports, large events, but on health care, education and social policy. Hungarian people must be given more support and more opportunities. It is not for the hobbies, bureaucracy, luxury of a narrow elite to be financed, but for those who find it difficult to live in this country. By the way, pension expenditure has also been significantly reduced within social expenditure, honourable Members. We think we need to give more money to the pensioners. The shadow government believes that fair wages must be ensured and that we must develop the common things that hold this society together, which will give everyone a chance, which will give everyone an opportunity. The essence of a left-wing social democratic government is not to spend our common possessions on private purposes, not on personal hobbies, not on political culture, not on economic aid allocated to their own kissers, but on jobs, health, education and social support in order to make this a well-functioning, cohesive country, where it is good to live, and where everyone is given a chance, a just country where every Hungarian citizen really counts, not only in words, but also in everyday life. Thank you very much.
u2023-03-06-50	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2023-03-06-51	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The benches on the left are pretty toothy. Who, though, is the company I am reading to you, honourable Congressman Harvest? You, yourself, Gergely Harvesto, Gy. Erzsébet Németh, Ferenc Gyurcsány, István Hiller, Csaba Molnár, Zsolt Molnár, Ágnes Vadai, László Varju, Lajos Oláh, László Varga. Who are these congressmen? They are the ones who are sitting around you right now, and with whom you have voted without precedent in the history of the Hungarian regime change, without precedent, to reduce the wages of doctors, to reduce the wages of nurses, to reduce the wages of police officers, to reduce the wages of teachers, to reduce the wages of social workers, to reduce the wages of municipal officials and firefighters. And it would be a long time before you could tell who you've decided on everyone. He said that once the shadow government gets a shadow majority here in Parliament, what a good world will happen. Just, you know, honourable Member, this world has already happened in Hungary once. [[Eszter Vitalos: And we are not asking for any more!]] And this caused so much dissatisfaction from the Hungarian people that in the 2010 elections the whole left was divided into less than a third of the parliament, with the people voting two new parties in Parliament, Jobbik and LMP, and the MSZP shrinked to a tremendously small extent, just like after the regime change. There was a similar small faction of the Hungarian Socialist Party at the time. Honourable Congressman, You were issued by people when pensions were reduced, wages were reduced, hospitals were closed, schools were closed, 15,000 teachers were laid off, 16,000 medical workers were laid off. Well, that's your certificate, actually, honourable Member. And what happened in the last 12 to 13 years? We preserved the value of pensions, returned the 13th month pension to Hungarian pensioners. You took it, we gave it back. Although there is a war, there is an energy crisis, there are sanctions, there are economic difficulties in every country in Europe, but we can still pay 13 months' pensions this year, and we can pay even increased 13 months' pensions, as the rate of the pension increase will also be applied in the 13th month's pension. And last year, despite all the economic difficulties, despite all the energy crises, despite the fact that the country paid HUF 4000 billion in surplus for increased energy bills due to sanctions, if we were able to raise pensions by a few tenths of a percentage, but to a greater extent than inflation, precisely to maintain the value of pensions. Honourable Congressman, You often talk about social expenditure. Well, these were somewhere around HUF 360 billion in the period that you are so proud of, and now you have more than HUF 1100 billion working with 1 million more people. Thus, 1 million fewer people are even in need of income supplemental social services. They may receive other social benefits or other benefits in kind, but they do not need a replacement income, because they have incomes, work, 1 million more, and we have even tripled social spending. For example, the social child meal you held at HUF 33 billion is now an item over HUF 100 billion. Or you spent 600 million forints on an important school milk and fruit scheme in the social field, which is now more than 600 million forints, but more than 6 billion forints. There are such surpluses, honourable Member, of the past 13 years. Well, you guys couldn't afford it, except for pay cuts, layoffs, and institution closures. And how did you talk about a teacher's wage increase? We are preparing for a historic teacher's wage increase, as we will increase the wages of teachers by 75 percent in 25 months as soon as our EU funds arrive. You vote against it everywhere. But if the EU funds arrived, which should have arrived a long time ago, because they belong to us Hungarians, it means that this corresponds to an average increase of 3 percent per month. But you're doing everything you can to stop it. [[15.10]] But to do so, your Shadow Minister, Kla Dobrev, said that there was no need for a pre-election government business, so you talked about educating wage increases. As far as sanctions are concerned, you have said that this makes Hungary's fate more difficult, that we will not back down, that we will also vote in favour of the strictest sanctions, said Klára Dobrev. [[Gergely Harvesto: Then you voted for it!]] Well, it's only Ferenc Gyurcsány's sentences that could be echoed from the autumn speech that no country has ever done anything like what we've done, obviously we've lied for the last year and a half or two. You're not the last year and a half, you're the last year and two. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] You've been lying for the last decade and a half, Your Honour. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-06-52	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Simicskó, Head of the Group, KDNP Group, asked for a pre-meeting speech:. The only solution with the title of peace. You have the floor.
u2023-03-06-53	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, Mihály Vörösmarty put it this way, "Did the books save the world before?" Well, he must have gone ahead with the books, because many, many valuable books have appeared in our world. But should we reshape this question by saving it from sanctions to the world before? Has Russia stopped operations? Our answer is clear: no. Has the suffering of the Ukrainian people ceased? No. Have we come closer to peace? No. So I think these basic questions clearly prove that there's something wrong with the machine. On the one hand, we know that war is a fact of extreme violence, in fact a political violence organization, the enforcement of interests by force can be seen in all wars, including in the Russian-Ukrainian war. Ladies and gentlemen, One feature of the war is that it is a spiral of violence: the fighting parties are sacrificing more and more weapons, more and more men and soldiers to bring them to the table and to emerge from this war as winners. It is difficult to come back from this spiral of violence, which is also visible, since military conflicts have been going on for over a year, this segment of war. We need to put the parties on the negotiating table, which the Minister of Foreign Affairs often talks about, and that is the right position of the government, because it is not the tanks that will bring peace, but the negotiations, the ceasefire and the negotiations that will bring peace. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] Ladies and gentlemen... I think that Agnes Vadai knows this very well. We can talk about a front section around 850 kilometers. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's right, we need peace in the world! The president's ringing the bell.]] More than two thirds of this is a kind of a specific standing war, a kind of specific verdun syndrome, which quotes World War I. In one third there are certain smaller offensives, one or two kilometers, five kilometers of displacement, a kind of offensive defensive, attack and defense at the same time, designing and building back and forth protective lines. Churchill said that no victory is final, and no defeat is fatal. In this war, too, it is clear that the front line moves in certain places, especially in the area of Bahmut. For the time being, the Russian army has such a high artillery superiority that it is difficult to bring in, it is said by military experts that a Ukrainian response to seven Russian artillery missiles and shots can arrive. It is clear that the prolonged war, based on our historical experience, always favors the great and strong countries, which is why military science says that we know three types of classic warfare: material-centric, movement-centric and guerrilla-type warfare. The material-centred warfare was always possible in Russia, the United States, Britain, which had huge fleets, reserves, materials and resources. The Germans, the Prussians, have always been strong in manoeuvring, motion-centric warfare; this is also seen by the Ukrainian army, this type of attempt, its ability to manoeuvring, among other things, by transporting tracked equipment, including the promised nearly 300 tanks. On the front line, it is clear how the effectiveness and effectiveness of the fighting instruments and the various gender cultures can be measured. It is clear that the artillery fire and this superiority, which the Russian army has, are clearly decisive and significant. It was a serious mistake when the MSZP-SZDSZ government coalition was in place, and in 2004 the last coalition of artillery was abolished in Hungary; obviously these were not modern self-propelled guns yet, but it is important that these tools were also purchased in the Hungarian Defence Office. And a new weapon does not appear as a specific system and an effective system, and this is the role and potential of combat drones. [[Kálmán Olga intervenes.]] Both parties are expected to apply these in the coming times. We wrote our parliamentary resolution before the Parliament with Mr.Máté Kocsis, Prime Minister, so that the Parliament could stand up for peace and help the parties to negotiate as soon as possible. Obviously, there is also a particular proxy war involved, so the United States is inevitable, and it is important that the United States also change its foreign policy in terms of war and push the parties towards peace. We are fully interested in this, and we are doing everything we can to support the government in this endeavour. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-06-54	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, Minister Péter Szijjártó responds on behalf of the government. You have the floor.
u2023-03-06-55	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Chief of Staff, For more than a year now, the war has been going on in our neighbourhood, and we, who are in physical, geographical proximity, I think we all see clearly that the winners and winners of this war are not and cannot be, this war is only losing, and the longer this war goes on, the more people will be the losers of this war, the longer this war takes, the more dramatic its destruction. Here in Hungary, we are faced with the wave of refugees caused by this war. We are carrying out the greatest humanitarian action in Hungary's history when we help those fleeing the war. Clearly, it is heartbreaking to see broken families that have to leave their father at home under the draft rules. We also see that Europe has failed to respond, because if we agree that peace is needed as soon as possible, then I think it is not too difficult to see that neither arms transport nor sanctions will help to achieve peace as soon as possible. Weapons transports are dangerous because they bring with them the risks of extending and escalating the war, and let us not forget that if war escalates, it will not first escalate across the ocean, but in the geographical neighbourhood. The only thing about sanctions was that all ten times we had to fight hard to protect Hungary's national interests, that we could fight out all the exemptions and exceptions that, with exemptions and exceptions, we achieved that Hungary's energy supply was still safe, who was able to fight that Hungary's gas supply, oil supply and nuclear fuel supply were still safe. If we had not acted hard in the debates, then today Hungary's energy supply would have been physically impossible. Those who call for the adoption of sanctions without criticism take a position contrary to the interests of the Hungarian nation and threaten Hungary's secure energy supply. Ladies and gentlemen, It is also clear that sanctions have failed because they have not contributed to bringing peace closer and hurt more, hurt European economies more than Russia. Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, the question here is that it will succeed in preventing the outbreak of the Third World War, given that today in international politics there are positions being made, decisions are being made that will bring us closer and closer to becoming a real global, or real, world war with global effects; let us think about it, today there are ideas on the transport of combat aircraft. [[15.20]] And there are those in Europe who, unfortunately, are working for the outbreak of the Third World War. Remember the incident in Poland's territory. Remember that they had not even begun to investigate the case, no one had any idea what had happened there, already dozens of European and non-European politicians and journalists demanded an immediate response without having any idea what had actually happened. If the Poles hadn't been in the right place there, if the Poles hadn't been calm there, if the Poles hadn't thoroughly investigated what had happened, then perhaps we couldn't say today that our generation didn't have to experience a great world burn. I suggest that everyone refrain from making statements, decisions, decisions that risk the temporal and geographical extent of this war, and I ask you to accept the resolution that the governing parties have tabled here, because we must not forget that our pro-peace position is part of the global majority. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-06-56	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Róbert Zsigó, Member of the Fidesz Group, asked for a pre-meeting address with the title of our current affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-03-06-57	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Recently, it was exactly a year ago that war broke out in neighboring Ukraine. This war shouldn't have started. Hungary has been calling for ceasefires and peace talks since the beginning, because life can only be saved in peace. Every day of the war, more suffering, more human life. Hundreds of thousands have already died or suffered permanent injuries. Dear House, The war also causes serious damage to the European economy and the Hungarian economy in it. We can safely say that until there is peace and Brussels withdraws sanctions, inflation cannot be eliminated, but we can only reduce it, because war and sanctions are equal inflation. We are committed to working with all our potential instruments to achieve one-digit inflation by the end of the year. Dear Parliament, The newer and more pointless sanctions have also made it clear that energy prices do not return to pre-war levels. The price of gas remained three times higher than the pre-war prices after filling the gas reservoirs in Europe. Hungary had to spend 4,000 billion forints more on energy last year than it did a year ago. Brussels took this money out of the pocket of Hungarians with sanctions. We could have spent this money on something else, such as even more support for families. This issue is important to all Hungarians, which is why we launched a national consultation, which confirmed that the Hungarian people disagreed with Brussels' sanctions policy. Dear House, In addition, there is a serious concern that the international community is not working in peace with great forces, but in continuing the war. Brussels would send additional weapons and combat vehicles to the battlefield, and a significant number of Member States have already committed themselves to further arms shipments. We're afraid there'll be people who want to send troops to Ukraine. On Saturday, Roberta Metsola, President of the European Parliament, urged the EU Member States to send more weapons to support Ukraine and to seriously consider the transport of fighters. Such statements are unacceptable. We cannot allow the irresponsible statements of Brussels politicians to bring Europe even further into the armed conflict. The EP President's call for further arms transfers to Member States leads to escalation of war, further bloodshed and more human sacrifice. There is a stalemate, and the further battle does not bring victory and not peace, but the danger of world war. Dear Parliament, We don't just hear the pro-war statements from abroad; the Hungarian left is in line, but they are not a small amount of dollars, if you like, getting a mercenary for it. As proof of that, let's have a few quotes here. For example, DK's so-called Shadow Foreign Minister regretted not helping Ukraine 100 percent, as other EU Member States, for example, are helping to transport weapons. András Fekete-Győr also made a statement that Hungary should support Ukraine with weapons. But we can remember that Péter Márki-Zay, the candidate for Prime Minister of the Dollar Left, offered military assistance even when the war broke out. Dear Parliament, I would like to make it clear that we will not allow pro-war politicians to drag us into the war. We resist the pressure in Brussels to protect the safety of Hungarian people. We don't carry guns, we don't join any war coalitions. We don't root for anyone, because this war can't win. Since they want to bring us into the war every day, it is important for the Parliament to state in its resolution that Hungary remains pro-peace and wants to stay out of the Russian-Ukrainian war in the future. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-03-06-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, responds. You have the floor, Minister.
u2023-03-06-59	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Deputy Chief of Staff, We can discuss the war situation here in Parliament for the second time today, and it is obviously right that this issue should be on the agenda several times, given that this war is taking place in our neighbourhood. And if there is a war going on next door to a country, the effects of that war will be immediate and dramatic in all neighbouring countries. This is the case with Hungary. To this day and every day, we face the wave of refugees caused by the war. Every day we face the fact that families are being torn apart, mothers, grandparents are forced to run away with their children, putting a life's work in a bag, practically. We all see that the winners and winners of this war cannot be. The longer this war lasts, the more clear it is that there are only losers of war; the more clear it is that this war will only bring destruction. And this war is happening here in Europe, and therefore European people are dying in the war, and the European economy is suffering, and the European economy is moving towards recession. Unfortunately, this also has a major role to play in the European response that has failed, as it has become clear from the perspective of one year that the sanctions policy has failed. When the first sanctions package was negotiated in Brussels after the outbreak of the war, the drafters of the sanctioning proposal and the member states argued that we should impose sanctions because these sanctions will bring Russia to its knees, so that Russia will have to end the war and we will be closer to peace. One year has passed, ten sanctions packages have been pushed through in Brussels, and we can see that these sanctions packages have not brought not only peace closer, because the war is taking place with more brutality than ever before, but these sanctions packages are much more painful for the economies of European countries than for the Russian economy. In the case of Hungary alone, the country's energy bill increased by HUF 4000 billion in just one year. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister, Let me also tell you that today, the global majority is on the side of peace. In Europe there is, of course, a war psychosis in the transatlantic world. Many people here make irresponsible statements. Some, after the incident in Poland, even before the investigation started, called for an immediate response, thus not putting Europe and the world into a world war, but the global majority is in favour of peace. [[15.30]] A large part of the countries outside Europe do not understand why they have to face difficulties due to a regional war; why they have to face a food supply crisis and the fragility of energy supply thousands of kilometres from this regional war. All these countries want peace as much as we Hungarians do. Unfortunately, the transatlantic world is in a war psychosis. It must be said that it must be made clear that the transport of weapons is dangerous, that the transport of weapons risks escalating, both in time and geographically. And let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that we, who live in this neighbourhood, are the first to encounter the effects of escalation, because this war is not hundreds of miles away, not thousands of miles away, it is not on the other side of the ocean, but if there is escalation, then the countries in the geographical neighbourhood are always in the most dangerous situation. Therefore, the task is clear: the pro-peace global majority must be strengthened, and the Hungarian Parliament can confirm this by adopting the proposal for a resolution tabled by the pro-government factions. I call on my fellow Members to do this. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-06-60	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2023-03-06-61	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: János Bencze, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; Mária Kállai, Fidesz; Péter Jakab, independent; Balázs Barkóczi, DK; Andrea Hegedüs, DK; László Varju, DK; Gergely Arató, DK. He applied for the speech before the agenda tomorrow: Máté Kanász-Nagy, LMP; Timea Szabó, Dialogue; Dóra Dúró, Mi Hazank; Brenner Koloman, Jobbik; Zsolt Molnár, MSZP; Lajos Oláh, DK; Imre Vejkey, KDNP; Balázs Győrffy, Fidesz. He applied for a speech after the agenda tomorrow: Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik; Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; Dóra Dúró, Mi Hazank; Péter Balassa, Jobbik. On Wednesday he applied for a speech after the agenda: Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik; Bernadett Bakos, LMP; Dávid Dócs, Mi Hazank; Dóra Dúró, Mi Hazank; Péter Balassa, Jobbik; Erik Bánki, Fidesz.
u2023-03-06-62	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now it is time for the mandate certificate and its representatives to take an oath. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that because of the death of MEP László Kordás, the Democratic Coalition has nominated Judit Ráczné Földi from the national list. The committee for the examination of mandates met before the meeting and examined the regularity of Judit Ráczné Földi's credentials on the basis of electoral documents. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee on the Exemptions, who will give the result of the examination of the mandate in accordance with the rules of the House 9. He shall report to the Parliament in accordance with paragraph 2 of Section 2. You have the floor, Mr. President.
u2023-03-06-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, With the death of Congressman László Kordás, a mandate has become vacant on the common list of parties that the Democratic Coalition, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary has since become Jobbik-Conservatives [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]] , Momentum Movement, the Hungarian Socialist Party, the Green Party of LMP Hungary and the Dialogue Party for Hungary. So, on this joint list, a mandate has been vacant. This mandate was issued by the National Election Committee to Judit Ráczné Földi on 17 February. A request for judicial review was submitted against the decision of the National Election Committee. The request was, of course, judged and upheld by the Curia. The decision of the NVB became binding on 23 February, and the Member took over her credentials on that day. In accordance with the rules of the House, the Member has indicated to us in writing the conflict of interest that exists against her. He informed us that he had a conflicting position, here he referred to the mandate of the local government in Székesfehérvár. I mention this because in the press at the time there were other types of conflicts of interest. The immunity committee was probably first divided in the history of the immunity committee by a mandate certificate, and the immunity committee proposes to the Parliament with 4 votes in favour and 1 votes in favour that the mandate of Judit Ráczné Földi be confirmed by the Parliament.
u2023-03-06-64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Crying out of the ranks of our country: Where is the united opposition?]] Congressman, please. Thank you. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a proposal amending the report on the outcome of the examination of mandates cannot be submitted. The mandate shall be certified by the Parliament without debate. Please check that your card has been placed in the voting machine after you have taken your seat. [[Noise.]] A little more dignity, Congressmen. So I ask the Honourable Parliament to justify Judit Ráczné Földi's mandate. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament confirmed the mandate of Judit Ráczné Földi with 168 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Now, the solemn oath and the signature of the oaths. I ask Mrs Judit Ráczné Földi to come to the centre of the Chamber and take her oath. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to read out the text of the oath, and I would ask those in the Chamber to stand up and listen to it as usual. [[The people in this room stand up. Judit Ráczné Földi steps into the middle of the room. Dezső gullible reads the words of the oath.]]
u2023-03-06-65	I, Judit Ráczné Földi, accept that I will be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, keep its legislation and keep it with others; I will exercise my office as a Member of Parliament for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. [[Applause.]]
u2023-03-06-66	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, The oath papers will now be signed. I ask Mr. Victor Vinnai to prepare the documents for signature, and Mrs. Judit Ráczné Földi to sign them. [[It's happening. Győző Vinnai, who signed the oath document, gives a copy to Judit Ráczné Földi, who was first congratulated by Ferenc Gyurcsány, then by Tamás Vargha, Máté Kocsis, Dr. István Simicskó, Péter Ungár, Dr. György Lukács, Imre Ritter, Viktor Orbán and Ágnes Dr. Vadai.]] Thank you. [[15.40]] Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs to verify the validity of Mrs Judit Ráczné Földi's oath. [[It's happening.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, I declare that the notaries have found the oath papers of Mrs Judit Ráczné Földi to be in order. I wish Congresswoman, on behalf of Parliament and myself, effective work and good luck. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that Mrs Judit Ráczné Földi said that there is a conflict of interest against her, so that during the event of conflict of interest, the Parliament and the parliamentary committees cannot exercise their right to consult or vote, submit a motion, and are not entitled to remuneration. Dear Parliament, I declare that the number of Members of Parliament is 199. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. I would like to inform you that there is no consensus at today's extraordinary meeting of the House Committee, so according to the proposal put forward by the President, H/3086 on the one-year anniversary of the Russian-Ukrainian war. Parliament shall discuss the proposal for a resolution as an EU item. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on an emergency proposal. The author initiated that T/3131 amending the rules relating to declarations of assets in the context of the agreement with the European Commission. The Parliament will also discuss the number of proposals under urgent procedure at this meeting. I would like to ask Mr. Lajos Szűcs to present the emergency proposal. Mr. Messenger!
u2023-03-06-67	[[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Regulation No 10/2014 on certain house rules [[ANNEX II 24.]] Parliamentary resolution, hereinafter referred to as the House Rule 60. On behalf of the Government, pursuant to paragraph 1 of Section T/3131 on the amendment of the rules relating to declarations of assets in order to reach agreement with the European Commission. Urgent trial of bill No 1. The urgent hearing is necessary for the adoption of the bill as soon as possible. I propose that the general debate on the bill be held on Tuesday, 7 March 2023, following the speeches before the agenda, as a third item on the agenda; an amending proposal should be tabled on Tuesday, 7 March 2023, pending the conclusion of the general debate; the detailed debate should open with the conclusion of the general debate on the bill; the Legislative Committee is the House Rule 46 of the Decision. After receiving the information referred to in paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article, but in accordance with paragraph 46. Before the deadline laid down in paragraph 2 of Section 2 of this Article, you may evaluate the Commission's proposals for amendments closing the detailed debate. In view of the above, Article 15 of the Rules of Procedure of the Decree provides that: On the basis of paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Act, I shall initiate the amendment of the Parliament's draft agenda starting on 6 March 2023 with the general debate on the proposed bill, so that the bill in question can be adopted in the week starting on 20 March 2023. The amendment to the agenda is justified by the priority government interest in the adoption of the bill as soon as possible, taking into account the need for agreement with the European Commission. I'm sorry, I'm sorry,
u2023-03-06-68	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the need for a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members present to order an urgent hearing. I'm asking you, T/311. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament took the submission to the urgent hearing by 140 votes in favour, 18 votes against and 14 abstentions. Dear Parliament, I declare that the DK Group has proposed to amend the agenda proposal, which is the House Rule 15. Paragraph 4a of the Act was rejected because it was not rejected under Article 15. In accordance with paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Rules of Procedure, only political statements on a series of subjects may be included on the agenda of Parliament's meeting. The author of the rejected proposal initiated the repeal of the refusal decision. The Parliament decides on this without debate, with a raise of hands. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the scope of the OE-42/155-1/2023. Decision No. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament's decision... [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Accepted! So it'll be as we said!]] maintained in its scope. Dear Parliament, I declare that Mr Ferenc Gyurcsány Group leader has initiated a repetition of the vote using a voting counting machine. [[Bence Rétvári: He's not here either! Where is he? Dr. Agnes Vadai: All right! He's tilting the system!]] In accordance with the motion, I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the scope of the OE-42/155-1/2023. Decision No. Please vote now by using a ballot counting machine. [[Vote.]] I declare that the Parliament has maintained the decision by 143 votes in favour, 26 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal for an agenda under presidential authority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, Now, at 3:47 p.m., we move on to interpellation negotiations. [[Some Members leave the Chamber.]] I am ordering a two-minute recess and handing the session over to Vice-President János Latorcai. (Sunning: 15.48 15.51 President: Dr. János Latorcai Note: Dr. Lajos Szűcs)
u2023-03-06-69	Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. I would ask my fellow members of the Government who are now leaving the Chamber to do so in such a way as to ensure that the interpellations and the answers to them are communicated without delay. Dear Parliament, Congressman László Varju, a representative of DK, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Economic Development:. Why don't they stop inflation in Orbán once they can? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, By responding to the interpellation, the Prime Minister has appointed Minister for Finance Mihály Varga, who is responsible and competent according to the subject, to whom we will hear the answer from State Secretary Péter Benő Banai. Congressman László Varju, please.
u2023-03-06-70	Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Your governance now consists in watching the Hungarian people suffer from persistent inflation in Orbán, which has now become a European record, while you are pointing out sanctions. Orbán propaganda created a story of bleeding from multiple wounds around the bitter reality of unprecedented food price increases, rising fuel prices and seven-time overhead increases, although it is immediately exposed if someone drives across the Romanian or Slovak border and enters a gas station or small shop on their first trip, or just asks the Hungarians across the border how much they pay for gas and electricity every month. We therefore have the right to ask what else you are doing to combat inflation in Orbán, other than referencing and pointing at something else, rather than realizing that in other European countries it has not even caused half as much price as it has done in Hungary. Don't you think we should look in the mirror and be baptized in György Matolcsy's devastating criticism? They do not act because it is in your narrow interest to keep the stadium-funded inflation in Orbán above 25 per cent as long as possible, no matter what happens to the Hungarian people's salaries or pensions. But inflation in Orbán really works if it is even taxed by the 27 percent general sales tax on the European record. It is time for them to admit that every cubic meter of gas, each kilowatt electricity, every litre of petrol, more than a quarter of the price of diesel flows into the budget considered to be the pocket of the Orbán government in the form of a stadium tax. So you're literally better off, and you're actually winning on seven-time raises, expensive fuel prices, and food that's slowly becoming a luxury product. A thousand billion forints more will be added to the families, shortening the Hungarian people in the middle of the livelihood crisis, and then pointing to others; especially because other countries in Europe understand the need to help people in times of crisis rather than to sabotage them; mainly because they understand this in other countries of Europe. When Fidesz introduced a seven-time raise in Germany, for example, they reduced the natural gas tax from 19 percent to 7 percent last summer in Germany. So I ask Mr Secretary of State: why don't you stop inflation in Orbán by reducing the VAT on overhead and basic food? Why don't you want to bring the fuel prices below HUF 500 per litre by reducing VAT and excise duty? Why are they not willing to double the amount of gas and electricity at reduced prices? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you.
u2023-03-06-71	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Péter Banai Benő. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2023-03-06-72	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for bringing this important issue to Parliament, so we have the opportunity to clarify, on the one hand, what is causing the level of inflation that we see everywhere in Europe and in the world, and, on the other hand, to take stock of the measures taken by the government to break inflation. First of all, let us clarify why we are talking about war and sanctions inflation, and you are talking about inflation in Orbán. We are talking about warlike, sanctioned inflation because, after the outbreak of the war, energy prices clearly ran away and related to inflation. I have the Eurostat data set in my hand, which reflects the fact that the average level of inflation in the European Union increased by more than three times in 2022 when the war broke out. If you look at the levels of inflation in the various countries of Europe and you have mentioned, say, the German example, I ask you, for example, that you are talking about inflation in Scholz, for example, with your German colleagues, or in France you are talking about macron inflation, if any, in the United States, let us say, inflation in Biden or not. Look at the figures, Mr President, you will see that inflation has also increased significantly in these countries: inflation has increased nearly threefold in France or Germany compared to 2021. I would also like to say in fact that I did not hear the term "Orbán inflation" in 2014-2015 when, with substantial economic growth in Hungary, the level of consumer prices decreased thanks to the reduction of the rent. I repeat: in these years the price level has fallen, but we have not heard this sign. The point is therefore: I think that the statistics clearly show that inflation, which is also seen in Hungary, is essentially related to external circumstances, and we see inflation not only in Hungary, but in the world. The second point is how the government reacts to this inflation. Thank you for asking, Mr President, because we have the opportunity to recall the measures taken by the Government to reduce inflation. I will not list them all, Prime Minister, but let me mention two: on the one hand, the interest rate stop is helping 350 thousand families, on the other hand, electricity and gas prices are the lowest in Hungary at European level compared to other countries. Congressman mentioned the German example. Let me say that according to January 2023 data, the average price of natural gas in Germany is 24,03 euro cents per kilowatt hour and 2.47 euro cents in Hungary. So we can see a number of measures by which the government protects families against the rising prices. Thirdly, we also need to see that inflation is largely related to war and sanctions. We need to see and evaluate the measures taken by the government to keep inflation in check, and we also need to see the measures aimed at preserving family incomes in addition to higher prices. Who are affected by these measures? For example, pensioners, where, in addition to increased inflation, we guarantee the preservation of the real value of pensions, have already been paid for the 13th month pension, and the budget bill of 2023 before you is about additional funding in a number of areas, whether it is the minimum wage or the guaranteed minimum wage, whether it is the other wage payments or the surplus that the budget contains. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-06-73	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will now ask Congressman László Varju to accept the Secretary of State's reply. Here you go.
u2023-03-06-74	Thank you very much. I would like to point out that I cannot accept Mr Secretary of State's reply, although he has undoubtedly tried to explain this situation. Dear Secretary of State, The increase in energy prices has undoubtedly occurred, but the impact of this, which is why we call it inflation in Orbán, does not justify the fact that inflation in Hungary is twice as high as in the said Germany or other countries. So from now on, it is legitimate to talk about inflation in Orbán. [[16.00]] Secondly, if they boasted much about the excellent long-term contract for the purchase of energy equipment, it would otherwise have had an impact. That is why I cannot accept his answer, and therefore I say that the shadow government remains Hungary's only hope of making the overhead and the fuel and food VAT significantly reduced, and the dark era of Hungary's history ends. Thank you very much. [[Eszter Vitalos: Awesome applause.]]
u2023-03-06-75	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! Bertalan Tóth and Imre Komjáthi, representatives of the MSZP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Economic Development. It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Secretary of State János Fónagy will answer you. Here you are, Congressman Imre Komjathi, the floor is yours.
u2023-03-06-76	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, We already know that the Hungarian state is unable to pay its own employees properly, it is enough to think only of teachers, health workers, civil servants and office workers. But it is bad to even think that now they can't guarantee the mere survival of jobs with a lot of work and low pay. This is particularly the case in the light of the fact that the government has repeatedly referred to the protection of Hungarian jobs. And just last week, the Prime Minister was raving about economic growth and the reduction of government deficits and debt. At the same time, it noted that ten job protection measures were also taken in the context of reducing inflation. However, the employees of Magyar Posta now feel at their own expense the value of the government's promise: in the days no less than 1,200 postal workers were declared redundant, even though a few weeks ago they said that they had reviewed the plans for redundancies and that there would be no redundancies. For many times, the Hungarian state is one of the worst employers, but it is definitely the weakest-paying employer. He is not doing anything to save the work of postal workers, and he is putting the livelihood of over a thousand Hungarian families in jeopardy. He's doing all of this on the grounds of the often rebuttal energy crisis. We have said this many times, but this brazen lie cannot be ignored, the price of natural gas on the stock market is far lower than on the day of the war. Therefore, the energy crisis cannot be explained by the Ukrainian conflict. What's more important than that is what happens to workers who lose their jobs. According to the official announcement of Magyar Posta, the partnership programme provides an opportunity for further employment. There are a thousand questions to be clarified: what exactly does this mean, how many workers can get a job again, what job can they work in and how much pay? What about the other employees? Will they let go of their hands at this time of inflation? And last but not least, what can the domestic population expect, where will the 1,200 postal workers that have just been released from the wind be missing? From the P.O. Boxes? From the delivery staff, are they closing up more mail? Have you examined in advance the impact of the wave of dismissal on the postal service? Overall, the question must therefore be asked: is this how Hungarian jobs are protected? What are you going to do to help redundant postal workers? I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary. [[Applause from the opposition.]]
u2023-03-06-77	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer is given by Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2023-03-06-78	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, In advance, allow me to provide you with the information you are familiar with. 4.7 million people work, and the number of unemployed people in Hungary has not been as low since the change of regime as today. So much for your dynamic introduction. Magyar Posta is in a special situation because it is a public service company, but it is also classified in a competitive sphere, since its services include those that are measured on the European market. In the current situation, which, in addition to and despite all your claims, is a war situation, an extraordinary situation, even under these circumstances, the government, under the new leadership of Magyar Posta, decided to review the situation of Magyar Posta, which has endangered its economic operation in recent years, and decided to support the intention of Posta's management to reduce costs, increase revenues, and make its operation sustainable. This is also served by improvements made over the last decade that significantly replace the living workforce. Honourable Congressman, With 38 years of rural service behind my back, please believe that there are few Members here in this Parliament who are more aware of what the post office means for each settlement, what the post office means, what an institution has been operating in this country for 100 to 150 years. At the same time, on an emotional basis, on a traditional basis, the XXI. It is because, contrary to what you claim, I strongly state that the state can be a good farmer and that the state can also help, in fact, to promote the economic operation of the companies it owns. In addition to the restructuring of delivery districts and the establishment of delivery bases, we have provided the staff working in the delivery network with an electrical means of transport; besides more efficient work, we also take more comfortable work into account, reducing the workload. You yourself rightly referred to it, and thank you for mentioning that Magyar Posta has renewed its postal partner program, which allows the transfer of admission activities to municipalities, retail operators and other companies working in the municipalities. This Postal Partner Programme provides an opportunity for the workers concerned to be further employed with the contracted partners. Experience has shown that this type of operation has been proven to be effective and effective for both customers and partner companies in recent years. According to the sub-Agreement between Magyar Posta's leadership and its trade union, on 3 March of the year, all postal workers received a gross allowance of HUF 50,000. We are aware of the situation, so for each employee who is placed within this framework of 1200 people, mentioned by you, the Posta always makes personal arrangements for further employment, relocation, training and assistance. Thank you for your patience. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] (Believeful Dezső takes his place in the notary seat.)
u2023-03-06-79	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I respectfully ask Congressman Imre Komjáthi to accept the State Secretary's answer.
u2023-03-06-80	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Secretary of State, I also have great respect for your personal work, but I cannot accept your response, and I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you are referring to a sanctioned energy crisis, but, by the way, you have a one-year contract with MVM Zrt. regarding HUF 192/kilowattor in the Hungarian Post, while you can buy electricity on the market for half of that. And I would like to remind you of one more thing: out of the 197 billion forints spent in six years on propaganda by Antal Rogán's Ministry, the wages of 1,200 workers could be covered for many decades. With all due respect, please talk to Minister Rogán about squeezing the 1,200 people who have been made redundant with that considerable amount of money, and then it may be possible to save these jobs. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2023-03-06-81	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our sitting today. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Economic Development:. How long will the payment of entrepreneurs be mandatory? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[16.10]]
u2023-03-06-82	Mr President, Dear House, In recent days, developments in the Hungarian Medical Chamber have highlighted the existence of cases for several chambers. We also see that, if we look at what is one of the most important sectors in the national economy, my political community, the community of Jobbik-Conservatives, it is the Hungarian micro-, small and medium-sized enterprises, which undoubtedly guarantee about two thirds of the jobs in Hungary, that have been carrying the national economy on their back for decades, and I think that this can be said of them in the coming decades. What we see is that the compulsory chamber contribution made by them every year has become some kind of symbolic thing in recent years. I am also surprised by the fact that they have to pay a contribution, or just such a symbolic amount, in such a way that they see no meaningful and measurable remuneration on the other side. At the same time, we also see how much money is paid each year, that we are talking about a billion-dollar scale, so we need to see what is happening on the opposite side. The question arises: when do you intend to eliminate the long hurting tribute that many consider completely unnecessary? After all, it is worth digging deep into this whole issue, since there is supposed to be advice and tender monitoring on the other side, at least on the side of the Chamber and on the press, we have read a lot about it, that in 2-3 areas there would be some kind of remuneration for this irritating amount. We see that in previous years an investigation has been carried out on this subject, Mr Secretary of State, and it has come out that of the 140,000 Budapest contributors, who are obliged to collect this, let's say, facet each year, so once again, 200 out of 140 thousand contributors, that is, two hundred of whom requested any kind of advice or similar assistance on the subject. So if we play with a thought experiment, we cancel the mandatory chamber contribution, and these 200 companies, let's say, would have received it at a market price, even with a state dotation, we can say without exaggeration that the country and the national economy would have been better off financially. So we don't really see the compensation on the other side. What we see is that many people think that this chamber's pocket money, there is no meaningful service that entrepreneurs and stakeholders can realise on the revenue side. Therefore, the community of Jobbik-Conservatives would much rather see, on behalf of freedom of business, a national economy where there are no compulsory tributes, or, if there is a payment to be made, there is a remuneration on the other side, but what we would most like to see is that entrepreneurship is not tampered with with with such symbolic items. So let go of this mandatory payment. The question is that the government has the same openness. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2023-03-06-83	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I said, will be given by Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go.
u2023-03-06-84	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The fundamental difference between the assessment of the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Hungarian Chamber of Medicine is that the Hungarian Chamber of Medicine used its special chamber licenses for political extortion; this is not the case for the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. The Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, as a government body, performs the public tasks entrusted by the State, contributes to the performance of the tasks of the economy and business development and represents the interests of Hungarian entrepreneurs. The aim of the cooperation between the government and the Chamber of Industry is to improve the national economy and improve the quality of life of Hungarian people. Strategic cooperation has a multi-annual history, first concluded in 2010 and has been confirmed three further times. This cooperation brings predictability to business and entrepreneurial life. The Chamber has taken an active role and takes on a number of economic policy issues that directly or indirectly affect the day-to-day operation of businesses, and has demonstrated on several occasions in the framework of the cooperation that it is in the interests of domestic businesses. A good example of this is the Széchenyi Card Programme, operated by the Chamber of Industry, which has been one of the most successful economic development instruments for 20 years, which plays an important role in the financing of SMEs. Covid has put the economy ahead of many challenges and the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry has helped meet the needs of businesses. On the initiative of the Chamber, the government reduced the business tax on SMEs twice and frozen local taxes on businesses. The wage support granted in 2020 still has a significant impact. On the proposal of the Chamber, the government made it possible to pay from every sub-account of the Széchenyi rest card. Special credit schemes were introduced in the Széchenyi Card Program, in 2021 Kavosz launched the Széchenyi Card GO! product with an improved and updated version of Széchenyi Card MAX + is still available today. With the active involvement of the Chamber, the operational staff responsible for re-launching the economy facilitated the introduction of telework, the placement of wage subsidies for job creation, and, on the basis of a proposal from the Chamber, made it possible for companies suffering significant losses to be extended until the end of 2022. With a view to curbing inflation and strengthening businesses, the government decided, on a proposal from the Chamber, to extend the interest rate stop beyond the retail interest rate stop to non-state-supported, variable-rate, HUF-based SME loans. Within the framework of the national entrepreneurial mentoring programme linked to the chamber's name, some 3,000 companies received support in terms of approach and instrumental support. This shows that in recent years the Chamber has made a sufficient contribution to the main operation of businesses and to the development of the economy. On the basis of all this, I think it is absolutely unfounded to claim that the annual contribution of HUF 5 000 would be a tribute that has long been hurting businesses, which many consider completely unnecessary. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-03-06-85	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa to accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2023-03-06-86	Mr President, Dear House, The reason why I cannot accept this answer is because I would like to underline that, in the period under consideration, 140,000 of Budapest's contributors and contributors were able to use any kind of service, i.e. 200 of them. This means that less than 2 000 of the contributors were able to make any profit in exchange for their payment. In a normal country, in such a system, a responsible government can do one thing: review this system and do not leave it mandatory to do something beneficial for 2 thousand. That's why I'm getting you to review this whole system, especially since you can accuse not only other chambers of political action in the management of the Chamber, but also this one. We also see that European Union funds are not charity donations to Hungary, they would be due to this country, but if these resources are put at risk precisely in the context of the retention and deepening of the disturbances around the chambers, all Hungarian entrepreneurs will suffer, but the worst possible result is the micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that carry this country on their backs. And you guys have a dog's duty to deal with them in the first place. Thank you for your patience. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2023-03-06-87	Thank you very much. The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our sitting today. Dear House, Fellow Members! Member István Szabadi, representative of Mi Hazan, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance: When do you take responsibility for your failed economic policy? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, By responding to the interpellation, the Prime Minister appointed Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, who is competent according to the subject, to whom we will hear the answer from Secretary of State Tamás Menczer. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-03-06-88	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Like the Balliberal governments, your economic policy is, after 12 years, giving free money and tax incentives to multinationals to bring their investments into our country. [[16.20]] Instead of building an independent national economy, this economic model is more about political survival every year. In the short term, they can say how much new jobs have been created and how much GDP has increased, but they are pushing the country into economic dependence in the long term. The Hungarian taxpayers cost a lot of money to have us as a assembly workshop for the multinationals. According to the latest data from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade between June 2004 and January 2023, 433 multi-company projects were funded by the government for HUF 1053 billion, and these multi-company companies undertook to create or retain 94 thousand new jobs in return. Moreover, since 2020, it is no longer mandatory to create a new job for such an investment or, in the case of such a call for support, only to carry out the investment. In his speech to Parliament on 2 November 2022, the Prime Minister spoke of a million jobs, but he also said something else, and I quote, tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of Hungarians can earn their living. The quote is so far. This may also mean that a very large number of migrant workers may be granted a permit to fill the vacant job, because in Hungary, factories have such a level of labour demand that the Hungarian labour market cannot satisfy it. They are also proud that the Hungarian economy grew by 7.1 percent in 2021 and 4.6 percent in 2022. However, foreign migrant workers and multi-country profits are also included in GDP growth, which is wrong. After the conclusion of the grant agreement, foreign companies returned a total profit of HUF 13 700 billion to their home country between 2004 and 2021, which could hardly contribute to the development of the Hungarian economy. I ask you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply on when do you assume political responsibility for the failed economic policy of the last 12 years? When will they finally realize that the solution should not be seen in the next year's GDP, but should be considered to shift the country to a long-term development path without dependence; and to domestic agriculture, the food industry, the SME sector and the knowledge of Hungarian people [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] build an independent national economy. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of our country and the Jobbik.]]
u2023-03-06-89	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Tamás Menczer. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2023-03-06-90	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, With all due respect, this is what happens when you write a bad, inaccurate text, and then stick to it, because you are asking us for the 2004 period, and I would like to say with respect that the Orbán government did not lead the country during that period. That's one of them. The other thing I would like to raise, listening to his speech, I remembered that he once asked us that we had created too few jobs, and with his other sentence, if I understand it correctly, too much. I ask you to settle this within a party, and then make it clear what the question is. But more importantly, honourable Member, it is clear that, despite all this confusion, this speech could have been said without further ado by a representative of a left-wing party; and although he did not ask for it, if he would allow me to advise you: I would warn you not to step on the Gyurcsány road and join the left-wing parties, because at some point you will find yourself next to the right-wing party, and their leader may be sitting next to Peter James, and we have seen that this road is not successfully paved. Let me answer you with a few numbers on what you call a misguided economic policy. Although you did not point out this, honourable Member, that in 2010, when the Orbán government took over the country, unemployment was a huge problem: unemployment was 11-12 percent, many families had no regular income, no income, no uncertainty and no prospects for it. Therefore, one of the most important tasks and strategic objectives of the Orbán government was to create jobs. And indeed, what you have referred to is true, and, in fact, if I understood that half sentence correctly, then that was a correct reference-- that we have created a million jobs in recent times. 4.7 million people work in Hungary; this is a historical record, and one million more people worked in 2010. I hope you don't dispute that. Now, the result of the economic policy you call a failure is also that real wages, even in the difficult year last year, despite war and sanctions, have increased by 2.6 percent, compared to 2010 - without discounts, real wages have increased by more than 70 percent. With regard to pensions, I have to say that we doubled it compared to 2010, we doubled pensions, and the purchasing value increased by 20 percent; under difficult circumstances, we gave back the 13th month pension; of course, pensioners will always receive an increase in inflation. And we didn't take you away from pensioners or anyone else in times of crisis, but on the contrary, we gave you this and returned it. Then: the result of the economic policy you call a failure is that last year, in a very difficult year, people under the age of 25 received tax relief. This affects 330,000 young people and means 119 thousand forints on average. And the families got a lot of their taxes back. In addition, we have decided on an investment record: Hungarian and foreign investors decided on HUF 2600 billion, so this amount will be added to Hungary, which was also a record decision last year, and our exports amounted to EUR 142 billion. It's double in 2010, it's also a record, and I could still classify these numbers for a long time. There is only one reason for this: we always have Hungarian interests in mind, which is what I propose to you. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-03-06-91	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mr István Szabadi to accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2023-03-06-92	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I do not accept your answer, with respect, even because, on the one hand, GDP is not only unfit to measure economic development, but also to measure others. The other is that I have made it clear that, like Balliberal governments, they have been doing the same thing over the past 12 years: giving free money and tax incentives. So thank you so much for giving me such a nice lecture, but that's a fact. Not to mention that, with the HUF 1053 billion that has supported multinational companies over the past 12 years, they have not even dared to commit to nearly 100,000 jobs; and the other is that the one million jobs and the governing party have always mentioned this number, a large part of which is filled with foreign migrant workers. Is this your work-based society? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of our country.]]
u2023-03-06-93	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform this House that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on this day. Congresswoman Rebecca Szabó, representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Construction and Transport:, is it really so important to crowd 173 yachts into Lake Balaton that it is worth destroying the beach of Balatonföldvár? It's an address. It is for Mrs Rebecca Szabó; Minister János Lázár himself will answer.
u2023-03-06-94	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Minister, You may remember the case of the giant port in Balatonfenyves: Balatonfenyves is one of the most shallow settlements on the south coast, and yet a Fidesz-near entrepreneur wanted to build a sailing port right here. And as usual in the NER, the authorities removed all obstacles to the inability of the idea, although there was a study that showed that deep piers in the lake would change the flow and lead to large mud deposits. However, the environmental authority knew better and stated that there was no need for an environmental impact assessment. So, to understand, a 550-metre-long pier party is being built on the shallowest section of Lake Balaton, so it has no significant environmental impact. I think it's the Orbán system itself in a nutshell. We now know not only that after the construction of the port on the beach of the neighbouring Balatonmáriafürdő, the mud deposit started, but also that the mud must be scraped from the harbor itself regularly, which is then poured to the beach in Fenyves, of course with official permission. [[16.30]] Now in Balatonföldvár, it seems that the same will happen again. There is a partial government office, there is a material about the expected mud deposits, there is an authority opinion contradicting the facts that there is no significant environmental impact of the investment, there is a Fidesz-near entrepreneur and hopelessly protesting local population. This situation is more serious in that Balatonföldvár already has a huge sailing port, but with this second, it is planned to cut the popular western beach in half. It's public money, with the government support of the Kisfaludy program of 900 million. According to the local Fidesz mayor, this marina won't disturb the beach, but it's obviously not true, and the locals know it. On the one hand, there is a current Ministry of Interior decree that it is prohibited to bathe within 100 metres of ports and floating platforms. On the other hand, this pier will be 381 meters long, and the whole building will take 40,000 square meters from Lake Balaton, so it will not be possible to swim from one side of the beach to another unless someone is 380 meters inward. In addition, the regionally competent water management board also wrote it in writing:. The development of ports can have a significant impact not only on the wildlife but also on the sediment migration and even currents of the lake, which can cause the lake to deteriorate overall. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, That is why I would kindly ask you to inform me how it is really important to crowd 175 more yachts into Lake Balaton, and not perhaps, let's say, somehow to expand the existing port with electric stations, that it is worth destroying the beach of the Balatonföldvár. And I'm asking you, would you believe that a facility with a length of 381 meters that occupies 42,000 square meters doesn't change the function of a beach at all, because I don't believe that, nor do local residents believe that, apparently. Thank you.
u2023-03-06-95	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2023-03-06-96	Dear Parliament, Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Congresswoman put me on a very difficult task because she forced me, on behalf of the government, to go through the process of authorising a specific authority matter, without any details of this, but in view of your respectable person, I have tried to do this work thoroughly. And my first and most important comment, which is conceptual, is what we have often stressed and we will also stress in the future: Balaton is everyone's, all our Hungarian citizens have a right to be with Lake Balaton and to be on Lake Balaton, everyone thinks so in this country, it is difficult to limit it. This has two limitations: one is local interest, and the other is domestic and EU legislation on environmental protection, water law and facility licensing. Let's look at the local interest first. First of all, I informed our fellow Member Mihály Witzmann, who is a Member of the region and who was elected there in a very high proportion as the representative of the town, who informed me that the local government's settlement plan for many years has included this area as an area suitable for the establishment of a port, in addition to the establishment of a beach. According to the current legislation, if the municipality's settlement plan provides for the establishment of a port there, it will not be able to prevent the establishment of a port by reference to any interest. So I think that, first of all, the body of representatives and local residents should discuss this issue. If they decide to amend the spatial planning plan and there is no port there, this obviously limits both public authorities and investor intent. The other part is your question, and my other answer is what rules should be taken into account for the protection of Lake Balaton in the interests of water, beachers, local populations and everyone. This will be a very long authorisation procedure, which is in detail already in court, you know that, but you have been left out of the interpellation, because the decisions of the Government Office, the Government Office of Veszprém County concerning preliminary environmental investigations have been challenged in court and are expected to be subject to further water rights authorisation, and then the authorisation to set up will also be brought to court. In the view of the authorities, at the moment, I have consulted the Department of Energy, the Ministry of the Interior, and I have also looked carefully at the spatial planning plan, based on the current position of the authorities, of course, in addition to impact assessments, appropriate protective and protective measures, it is possible that this planning and authorisation work may begin on the basis of rules generally applicable to the establishment of ports. I would add that there has been a call for preliminary documentation at the Water Management Board for three years. Three years ago, the contractor contacted the public authorities about the establishment of the port, for three years the necessary documents have been collected and collected by the contractor, the prospective investor, to ensure that the procedures and environmental aspects are met. So accusing the agencies of going shallowly, impartially, I think it's out of the question. Both the Fejér County Government Office and the Veszprém County Government Office, as well as the Metropolitan Government Office, are very careful about the matter, since there is considerable public interest surrounding this issue. So I am convinced that the authorities are acting carefully and carefully, and that the local community has allowed a port to be established. I propose to the congresswoman that she consult with the mayor, the municipal body of representatives, and, of course, my fellow Member, Mihály Witzmann, and the authorities at her disposal. I just want you to quote in your interpellation the documents of the water rights and the water management board, the sentence that you described is not in the documents, and I would draw your attention to it. So your reference is incorrect and misleading. I've tried to give you a correct answer, and I expect you to be fair in this case. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-06-97	Thank you very much, Minister. I will ask Ms Rebecca Szabó to accept Minister's reply.
u2023-03-06-98	The fact is that my quote was accurate, but this document, this quote was not written in this case, it was in an earlier document, but I will send you its reference number in writing. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties. Eszter Vitalos: Yeah, we get it.]] The thing is, I tried to ask Minister Gergely Gulyás a question about authority before, and he transferred it to your ministry. So, for real, you might want to talk a little bit about who the case belongs to, because it doesn't seem to be quite clear. In any case, we in the Dialogue really believe that Lake Balaton belongs to everyone, and not just to people who can afford 30 million electric yachts, but to the 40,000 people who otherwise use this western beach. So in this sense, I cannot accept your answer, and not even because you refer to the authority's permissions that the authorities are doing the right thing, but just the other day the court annulled the authority's permit for the High Coast of Algara. So something doesn't really fit with these official permits, so I hope that the court will at least intervene here, although unfortunately the construction has already started.
u2023-03-06-99	Thank you very much. Dear House, Congresswoman did not accept the Minister's reply. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our sitting today. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bernadett Bakos, representative of the LMP, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister: what are they doing to improve people's quality of life in the environment of the airport and in remote areas? It's an address. Madam Member, the Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of Construction and Transport, who is responsible and competent according to the subject, to respond to the interpellation. Accordingly, the Minister will answer your question, your interpellation question. Congresswoman Bakos Bernadett has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-03-06-100	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, From those living in the vicinity of Liszt Ferenc International Airport, i.e. Budapest X., XIV., XVI., XVII., XVIII. From its districts, but also from Ecser, Vecsés, Sitlő, there are constant, massive and increasingly desperate complaints about noise and air pollution that are unbearable day and night. The severity of the problem is also shown by the fact that it is already remote from airports, such as IX, XI, XXI. complaints are also coming from districts. This is not surprising, as airport traffic exceeding 10 million people is damaging people's quality of life. In addition, the expansion of the airport causes serious economic damage, the properties here are constantly being devalued, and it is almost impossible to sell them. The current increased traffic of the airport and its intention to increase further simply cannot be tolerated by the capital city or by the settlements in the area. It is also a problem that the airport does not take protective measures, which would be a statutory obligation, and which, in addition to current traffic, would at least reduce the deterioration of the quality of life of people living in the area. In addition, new expansions are announced one by one, and the various logistics centres are multiplying in the area. [[16.40]] The government's intention is clearly to make the southern Budapest region the centre of international goods logistics, which is why, among other things, they are forcing the construction of the Galvani Bridge and the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. This once again revealed that the viability of the capital city is a multifaceted aspect behind profit interests. We're not good at controlling the noise load either. The daily noise limit is 65 decibels according to Hungarian legislation, while the WHO recommendation is 45 decibels. But we're doing worse than night noise limits, while we have 55 decibels, WHO's recommendation is 45 decibels. The current noise monitoring network is unsuitable for its role and should therefore be developed and expanded and the authorities, in cooperation with the airport operator, should ensure that a monitoring network regularly measuring air quality is established. My question to you is: what are you doing to improve people's quality of life in the airport environment and in remote areas? Are noise limits adjusted as recommended by WHO? Are you planning to expand the noise monitoring network and build a monitoring network to ensure air quality measurement? Thank you in advance for your reply.
u2023-03-06-101	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2023-03-06-102	Dear House of Representatives, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and After my unsuccessful attempt, I will now at least try to obtain your acceptance response on behalf of the Prime Minister to our goal and ambition to include the Budapest Ferenc Liszt International Airport, which you well described, in national interest as soon as possible in order to resolve the situation. Before I answer your specific questions, I would like to stress that we agree that our only international airport at the moment is Liszt Ferenc Airport, which can, from an economic point of view, have a special advantage for the country, obviously compromised with social aspects. Therefore, the government's strategic objective is to take the airport into national or state interest from the international interest, since an international company has the airport at the moment. I note here, after I think that I am older and I have been a Member for a long time, that in 2005 the sale of this airport and the public revenue from it greatly improved the budget, which was then used by the government in the elections to deceive the Hungarian people, and sold out the airport. So I think that the airport has a prehistory from an economic, political point of view. What's our job? In order to maintain order at the airport, and in order to free people from environmental impacts, regulation and national ownership, we can get closer. I also agree that the airport is facing gigantic development. We are constantly under siege by the international investor to allow development. It is not only Ferihegy 2, but also the construction of Terminals 3, 4 and the expansion of the current turnover of 10 million to up to 20 million or 25 million, which would indeed be a disproportionate burden for residents and Budapest as a whole; although it certainly offers economic benefits. The government, acting carefully, did not grant any expansion permission to the airport, partly because we want to sit at a negotiating table and partly because we also represent the interests of the people there, as Fidesz's representatives in Budapest also regularly express the noise burden. As you know, since 2019 the government has done everything in its power to reduce noise pressure, but there are two objective obstacles: the general wind direction around Hungary and Budapest, and the location of runways, which in any way means means the use of Budapest and the use of residential parts when the planes take off or land. There is a very complex international measurement system for measuring different air pollution, noise-related measurements and environmental-related measurements. In 2019 we launched the most important program, which was supplemented in 2022, as the Hungarian government, together with the airport, started a window-up and insulation program. Since the autumn of 2022, we have been helping residents of the area to defend themselves against noise pollution with a value of HUF 1.2 billion. My answer to your specific questions. Indeed, the WHO has modified the sound protection barriers that are right for health in Europe, but no EU Member State has introduced them. However, I promise you that I will examine the current limit values, that I will review them, and that I will try to take action in this matter, even if not with regard to the WHO target. His other question was the noise monitor. Since 2021, one of Europe's most modern noise measurement instruments has been operated by the international airport. There is continuous information about six measuring stations, which can be accessed and tracked digitally on the Internet for you. I believe that this meets international requirements, as do air pollution measurements that meet international requirements. It will be difficult to create Budapest and develop Budapest without any noise. The government's aim is to reduce this, but it is the most optimal solution if the airport is in national interest or in public interest, and then we can enforce your views much better against the market investor. I'm really hoping for the second time that I won't stay in this unacceptable situation. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-06-103	Thank you very much, Minister. I will ask Mrs Bernadett Bakos to accept the Minister's reply.
u2023-03-06-104	Thank you for your answer, but I'm afraid I won't accept it. However, I would like to propose, if you have already mentioned wind directions, that the 2018 SID amendment should also be examined in any case, as this is also causing huge problems. I am skeptical about the fact that national inclusion will indeed lead to a reduction in the burden on the population here. Indeed, the measuring instruments are very modern, but six pieces are not enough, and it does not measure the noise load on the population, but the airport is punishing on this basis. The reason I can't accept your answer is because we expect a little more in terms of measures. Thank you very much.
u2023-03-06-105	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear House, Congresswoman did not accept the response to the interpellation. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our sitting today. Congressman Tamás Herczeg, representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice: It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Your interpellation question will be answered personally by Minister. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-03-06-106	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Madam Secretary, If we look at the statistics in a medium-term time series, about since the beginning of civilian governance, we can see that the number of crimes in Hungary is greatly reduced, from 375 thousand in 2009 to 153 thousand in 2020 and thus to about a third. Nevertheless, I myself believe that it is very important that those who become victims of a serious offence or criminal offence have a versatile assistance available to them. This is why a large complex system of victim support has been created, and that is why victim support centers, institutions that help victims in many areas have been created. Last year, Minister of State came to Békéscsaba during the election period, and I can rest assured that the promise that we made at the time that the victim assistance point in the county of Békés and the victim assistance centre were established was fulfilled, since last November the victim assistance point was established, and we have good hope that the victim assistance centre will also be established at the end of this month. The victim support center has many roles. I believe that through contacts with civil society, civil society, and the police, there are many kinds of help, whether spiritual or mental assistance, which is needed by those who become victims of a crime, whether they become victims of a specific crime, through their families or as witnesses, or as part of a crime. This help, I say once again, can be provided by a variety of supply elements of care policy, but if victim support centres can be created, they will expand the whole care system. Victim support points were created in the police department, typically in the county precincts, but the victim assistance center will be able to operate in a civilian environment, and we hope that those who become victims will be able to use it. What I see is that there are cities where the number of people who one day use counseling and questioning the victim assistance centre can reach or close to ten, so I think it is appropriate to have the government's intention to expand this supply system, which is also part of Békéscsaba's, Békés County. Therefore, with all due respect, I would like to ask the Minister, the government is planning to ensure that victim support centres are able to operate within national scope, i.e. to operate such a victim assistance centre in every county. Thank you very much for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-06-107	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Judit Varga. Here you go. [[16.50]]
u2023-03-06-108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, The spirituality of victim support is backed by the moral command to help those in distress. This, translated into the language of government tasks, means that the Ministry of Justice ensures the establishment and maintenance of the national system of victim assistance, so that everyone who is the victim of a crime or property offence can receive adequate, effective, tailor-made and quick assistance. We are living in the age of danger, the effects of the Covid crisis are still here in Europe, we have war in our neighbourhood, sanctioned inflation, humanitarian disaster, there are many challenges faced by a government in Europe today, but we will not give in to these goals, and I can assure you that resources are also available in the Ministry to improve the victim support system. By 2025, we promised to develop this system into a national network, and we are practically ahead of schedule, as there are victim support centres in 15 counties, as you mentioned, and we already have a victim assistance centre in virtually every county in Eastern Hungary. And let's not forget that there are 24 - hour telephone services, so victims can receive customized help either personally or by telephone. In addition to the institutional part, there is also the development of the personal and service part, on which we are constantly working, and we are in contact with large companies, not only government offices, police, civil and ecclesiastical organisations, but also within the framework of strategic cooperation with large companies, because the most important thing is that everyone in Hungary knows that if they get into trouble, then there is help. What can our troubled countryman get at this time? Legal, financial, administrative and psychological assistance. The most important thing is that we always find the most effective way to help the person in a crisis situation. So we keep working. I am very pleased that, in the spirit of a peaceful cooperation in Csaba, we were able to open a point quickly last November, and we are on our way to form the centre; this means a much wider service in its infrastructure. So we're going to keep working, and thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-06-109	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I respectfully ask the Member to accept the Minister's reply. Here you go.
u2023-03-06-110	Minister Lázár received two "no's," in connection with the previous two interpellations, of course I accept that answer. I would quickly add that Békéscsaba and Békés County are among the most favourable counties on the list of crimes; it is also good for us that this institution is established, but of course, if it operates throughout the country, it will be right for all Hungarian citizens who become victims. Thank you very much, I accept the answer once again, of course. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-06-111	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! Member András Aradszki, a representative of KDNP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance:, How does the Government's twenty-point package of measures ensure a reduction in sanctioning inflation? It's an address. Honourable Member, Mr Péter Banai Benő Secretary of State will answer you. Congressman András Aradski has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-03-06-112	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Energy prices have risen to unprecedented levels in the international energy crisis caused by war and failed sanctions in Brussels, and raging inflation has started in all European countries, which will not spare our country. Due to the penalty inflation, Hungary spent HUF 4000 billion more on energy only in Hungary in 2022 than in 2021. But the cost of food prices and daily livelihoods has also gone unbelievably far. It is clear that, until there is peace and Brussels withdraws sanctions, inflation cannot be completely eliminated. However, a prudent and well-thought-out government policy can even reduce these difficulties in the longer term. However, the Government of Hungary has gone further, as it has set itself a bolder goal than mitigation, namely: to reduce inflation to one-digit levels at the end of this year. At the beginning of the spring session, the Prime Minister spoke about 20 measures being taken to achieve this goal, ten supporting jobs and businesses, and ten protecting families and pensioners. In the field of the protection of jobs and businesses, the Széchenyi Card Programme, the Factory Savings and Factory Savings Guarantee and Loan Scheme, the Baross Gábor Reindustrialisation Loan Scheme, the extended interest rate stop for SMEs, the agricultural loan rate stop, the action plan to assist the tourism sector and the establishment of a new national capital holding system can be mentioned as examples. In particular, the protection of families and pensioners is served by reduced energy prices maintained for this year to the extent of average consumption, as well as by the food price stop, which the government plans to maintain until sanctions inflation can be set on a permanent downward path. However, it is also important to mention, among other things, the 13th month pension and increased pensions, the threefold increase in the minimum wage since 2010, the interest rate premiums for the general public and the interest discounts for the student loan. Dear Secretary of State, The Christian Democratic People's Party agrees with all the government's measures aimed at curbing inflation as much as possible, as this will save the lives of all Hungarian families and their daily livelihoods. I ask the Honourable Secretary of State how the government will ensure a reduction in sanctioned inflation with the 20-point package of measures. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-06-113	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, State Secretary Péter Benő Banai answers the interpellation question that has been raised. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2023-03-06-114	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for your question, and thank you very much for pointing out that the high level of inflation is a global phenomenon. I have the European Commission's forecast, which, in addition to the figures for 2023, shows the inflation figures for 2022, which shows that inflation has increased more than three times in the EU average compared to 2021, and we can also see that no European Union country will repeat, according to the European Commission's forecasts, either within the euro zone or outside the euro zone, which could meet the inflation targets. So this is the starting position, we are facing a global phenomenon. The question is, in this global phenomenon, what measures can be taken by the respective countries or EU bodies in order to reduce inflation. I am not talking about the steps of international organisations, the steps of the European institutions, because this has been said a lot, and many of us think that it is peace that is the reduction in energy prices and inflation. [[Sic!]] it can lead to a first place situation. As regards the measures taken by the Member States, and in particular the measures taken by Hungary, the Member has rightly pointed out the steps that are a barrier to price increases, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to extra income for the families concerned in order to maintain their standard of living while increasing inflation. As far as the first group of measures are concerned, I would like to say again the statistics showing that in January 2023 the price of gas in Hungary was one tenth as the German price. If we didn't maintain the institution for reducing the costs, prices would be significantly higher, we could see an even higher level of inflation. But in the same way, price increases are controlled by the fact that higher inflation and higher interest expenditure do not occur, for example, due to the interest rate-stop measure in families with variable interest rate loans, which, as mentioned above, affects some 350 thousand families; it applies to students who have taken on student loans; but I also think that the reduced county lease allows for a lower price of travel for all who choose this county lease or country lease. And if we are also talking about additional incomes, let me mention once again that you have before you the amendment of the Budget Act 2023, which provides cover for higher pension expenditure due to higher inflation, and which also covers the guaranteed minimum wage increase. Finally, allow me to talk about one more thing. It is important not only to see what the government is doing to ensure that inflation is one-digit by the end of this year, but also to see how effective or not the proposals that come from different factions to break down inflation are. [[17.00]] I've heard several times about the reduction of the VAT key. We can see a Polish example: failed. And we can also see from the statistics that, in recent years, there have been products in Hungary where the highest price increase has been achieved for products with reduced VAT rates. All of this, the domestic and international example, tells me that VAT reduction is not an effective measure, but would result in a significant loss of budget revenue, which would, for example, jeopardise the maintenance of the expenses of the regulatory fund. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-03-06-115	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman András Aradski to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2023-03-06-116	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I move forward that I accept your answer, because it has clearly pointed out that the government, in addition to these, is also serving the interests of families with its fiscal policy, its tax policy. I am referring, in particular, to the fact that special taxes directly put families in a better position to compensate for or maintain reductions in energy prices. I must also add that this policy against inflation also provides the basis for future economic growth in the Hungarian economy, which will continue to provide guarantees for the support of families, guaranteeing the value of pensions and job creation. I accept your answer for these reasons. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-03-06-117	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! MEP Balázs Barkóczi, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Regional Development:, How much does Katalin Szili, Zoltán Guller, Róbert Bedros and György Wáberer make in the Curatorios of universities? It's an address. Dear House, Congressman! By responding to the interpellation, the Prime Minister appointed Mr János Csák, Minister for Culture and Innovation, who is competent and competent according to the subject, to whom he will be asked to answer by Secretary-General Eszter Vitalyos. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-03-06-118	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, When the European Commission envisaged that Hungarian students and educators could be excluded from the Erasmus + and Horizon Europe programme due to continued government corruption, Minister Navracsics promised rapid action, and then, from the announced and planned package of measures, it was clear that you had not been able to eliminate corruption in your mind, but that there was only a facade of action at State Secretary level: senior government officials were recalled from these curators, i.e. one of the Fidesz party soldiers was replaced for the other. By the way, yesterday the European Commission also indicated to you that it did not consider these measures sufficient. They said that civil servants and members of the various regulatory authorities should also leave these curatoriums. At the request of the shadow government led by Klára Dobrev, the Democratic Coalition Group has tabled such a proposal, which you, my pro-government colleagues, voted against at today's Justice Committee. However, four of them, namely Róbert Bedros and Katalin Szili, Prime Minister, Minister Zoltán Guller and Commissioner György Wáberer, have decided to resign as government officials and continue in the curatoriums. Of course, you also tried to hide this from the press, so we don't even know how much these people can earn as members of the Board of Trustees, although we assume that they have not suffered serious financial damage because they chose the Boards of the Universities instead of the ministries. According to the 2021 data, a Prime Minister's office will bring home HUF 1.3 million, almost HUF 2 million per month by a government commissioner. So it can be assumed that the four of them wouldn't have given up that amount, so we assume that they could earn nearly HUF 2 million as members of the board. Madam Secretary, I would like to point out that this amount is ten times the salary of a junior university teacher. So I ask the secretary of state: how much does Katalin Szili, Zoltán Guller, Róbert Bedros and György Wáberer make as a member of the board of trustees in the foundations of universities? Why were they hiding this amount, and why were they even hiding the fact that they had given up their duties as government officials and continued in the board of trustees? And after the European Commission has indicated that it does not consider the package of measures that you have announced to be sufficient, I ask you how much more important the filling of Fidesz mamelukes with public money against the interests of Hungarian teachers and Hungarian students will be. Thank you very much for your reply. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2023-03-06-119	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Eszter Vitalyos. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-03-06-120	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Although many things can be said for his interpellation, one thing is certainly not that his tone would have been very friendly, let's say, rather unfriendly. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We are not friends!]] One thing, however, is certain. We are sure to agree that it is time for the agreement on the payment of the EU's rightful money to Hungary. At the same time, there are words in the dictionary that I think we interpret in a completely different way. In 2022, the Hungarian Government undertook to clarify its obligation to public procurement and to extend the application of EU conflict of interest rules in 17 measures set out in the Conditional Procedure. This commitment was completed by the end of September 2022. You say that you wanted to make up for the Union. Dear Lord. They make it up to someone when they commit a sin. National advocacy and the enforcement of the interests of the Hungarian people are therefore, according to you, a sin. We believe that it is a merit and the duty of Hungarian representatives. [[Kálmán Olga: How much do you make? That's the question!]] The government's firm position is that Brussels claims do not have an EU legal basis, because Brussels' requests, as I said, have already been met in the autumn and we have also cooperated in terms of further expectations. What is happening now in Brussels? In Western Europe, it is common practice to have politicians in the Curatorium of universities. Once again, the EU has taken a political decision on our country and would have deprived Hungarian students of the Erasmus scholarship. The Hungarian Government is obliged not to accept this. At the same time, the EU is constantly making new demands on us; this is called extortion in our dictionary. [[Gergely Harvesto: How much?]] The government is making decisions, as always, in the interests of our country, our students, our instructors and researchers. [[Kálmán Olga: How much do you make?]] Accordingly, the members of the government concerned gave up their role in the Curatoriums with a deadline of 15 February 23 and some chose the Board membership. I would like to say that Hungary will continue not to allow students to be the victims of any decision in Brussels. We are in the middle of a negotiation process, the next part of which will be the negotiations of Minister Tibor Navracsics in Brussels, where, as always, we will seek agreement. However, one Commissioner: there will be a scholarship programme whether we agree with Brussels or not; in the latter case, the Hungarian budget will pay for it. And as for the remuneration of the work in the curatoriums, do you have a face to talk about living problems? Congressman, the average wage was less in your time than the minimum wage today. No government has ever implemented a comprehensive job creation programme or family support programme such as this government, and no one has ever taken as much money from the Hungarian people as your government. After all, let us clarify one more important word, Mr President, and this is representation, because while you represent the interests of Brussels both at home and in Brussels, we represent the interests of the Hungarian people, and we will continue to do so in the future. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-03-06-121	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I will now ask Congressman Balázs Barkóczi to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2023-03-06-122	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I can't accept the answer. I asked you the simplest question in the world, and compared to that, you were wrong and misquote. I'm sorry, I'm not here to be friends with you. I'm here to check on government work, among other things. The EU money has not come, Madam Secretary, because you are stealing. They continue to steal, they still do not want to eliminate corruption, and they are not willing to comply with the Commission's requests, and you know as well as I, Secretary of State, that both Erasmus + and Horizon Europe programmes are contractual partnerships based on quality assurance, so you or Viktor Orbán can say on any morning radio séance that the Hungarian government will pay these funds if Hungarian students and teachers will not be received by major western universities and then go to Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, because it is still more important for you to fill your own with money than the interests of Hungarian students and teachers. Shame on you! Thank you very much. [[Applause from the DK benches.]] [[17.10]]
u2023-03-06-123	Dear House, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will now be taken on our sitting today. Dear House, It's 5:10. We're at the end of the interpellations. We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. Please take your seats and check that your card has been properly placed in the ballot counting machine. Thank you very much. It follows from the publication of the T/3000 Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Kingdom of Thailand, of the other part. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament, therefore, to accept the T/3000. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 161 votes in favour, no votes against, with 1 abstention. It follows from the publication of the T/2999 Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Government of Malaysia, of the other part. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament, therefore, to accept T/2999. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 163 votes in favour, no votes against, with 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, In line with our adopted agenda, decisions are now being taken to accept the responses to the interpellations that have been made today. László Varju, representative of DK, I/3092. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 112 votes in favour, 53 votes against and one abstention. Congressman Imre Komjáthi, MSZP representative, I/3101. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 112 votes in favour, 54 votes against and one abstention. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, I/3098. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 112 votes in favour, 54 votes against and one abstention. Representative István Szabadi, representative of Mi Hazan, representative of I/3010. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 113 votes in favour, 34 votes against and 3 abstentions. Ms Rebecca Szabó, representative of the Dialogue, I/3093. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 112 votes in favour, 54 votes against and one abstention. Congresswoman Bernadett Bakos, representative of the LMP, I/3095. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 112 votes in favour, 53 votes against and one abstention. Mr Balázs Barkóczi, representative of DK, I/3081. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 112 votes in favour, 55 votes against and one abstention. It follows in line with the 11/2022 on the establishment of committees, the election of members and officials of the Parliament. [[V. 02.]] A decision to amend a decision. S/3165 submitted by the President All my fellow Members could get to know the proposal on the website. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the content of the personal proposal put forward by the President. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2023-03-06-124	1. 11/2022 on the establishment of committees, election of members and officials of the Parliament [[V. 02.]] OGY Decision is hereby amended as follows, paragraph 1 of the Parliamentary Decision: The Parliament elects Balázs Barkóczi, Judit Ráczné Földi, DK, to the Committee on Agriculture; László Kordás, DK, to the Committee on Enterprise Development, László Varju, DK, to become a member of the Committee. 2. Point 2 of the Parliamentary Decision is amended as follows: The National Assembly elects János Bencze, Jobbik, member of the Committee to the Legislative Committee Ferenc Varga, an independent member of the Committee. 3. Point 4 of the Parliamentary Decision is amended as follows: Instead of Balázs Barkóczi, DK, instead of Judit Ráczné Földi, DK, Vice-President of the Committee is elected by the Parliament to the Committee on Agriculture. 4. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption.
u2023-03-06-125	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, First, on the basis of points 1, 2 and 4 of the proposal, we decide on the election of the members of the committee; then, according to point 3 of the proposal, we decide on the Commission official from among the members of the committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament that S/3165. It shall elect the members of the Committees by adopting points 1, 2 and 4. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected the members of the committees with 162 votes in favour, no votes against, with two abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament that S/3165. According to point 3 of the proposal No.3, the Committee elects Judit Ráczné Földi as Vice-President of the Committee on Agriculture. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Judit Ráczné Földi as Vice-President of the Committee on Agriculture with 151 votes in favour and no votes against, with 10 abstentions. I congratulate Mrs Vice-President on behalf of the Parliament and wish her good work. [[17.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, We've reached the end of the decisions. We're gonna take a two-minute break, and then we're gonna reconvene. (Sunning: 17.20 17.24 President: István Jakab Note: Dr. Winner Vinnai and Sándor Szabó)
u2023-03-06-126	Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Olga Kálmán, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What do you know? It's an address. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the head of the DK Group has stated in advance that he is asking for a personal answer, so that, due to Mr. Prime Minister's absence, he will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Next up is the next representative of DK. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Gréczy, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: "What do you think you're doing? It's an address. Minister Péter Benő Banai, Minister of State, was entitled to reply because of his absence. I ask you, Congressman, do you accept the person you are responding to, or personally, Minister... [[Zsolt Gréczy: I accept.]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-03-06-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The Hungarian people's scam continues. At the moment, government propaganda is going to reduce inflation. On the other hand, we do, but prices are still rising brutally. Moreover, the decline in inflation does not mean that the price of bread, meat, sliced, dairy products, vegetables or fruit will decrease. The price increase continues at a slower rate at most. So the 1 000 forint bread will be 1300, even at a slower rate than it reached 1000 forints. For millions of Hungarians, poverty comes. Today we are talking about buying Europe's most expensive food from Europe's lowest wages. Boosting, urbanizing for fidesz politicians, poverty, livelihood crisis, inflation in Orbán for Hungarians. inflation was unleashed by the Orbán government and not by war, so that the pre-election distribution would be carried back abundantly from the people. The Fidesz and the Orbán government lied that there would be no austerity, and instead there would be a brutal increase in prices and a drastic increase in overhead. Today, the shadow government, led by Dobrev Klára, is Hungary's only hope for the end of this struggle, the livelihood crisis in Orbán, and for the country to return to development, bringing about European prosperity. So I ask Mr. Secretary of State how long do you think the Orbán livelihood crisis will continue, on which even your friend György Matolcsy said that you are responsible. Thank you very much, I look forward to your reply. [[Kálmán Olga applauds.]]
u2023-03-06-128	Thank you. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Peter Benő Banai. Here you go.
u2023-03-06-129	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You mentioned a livelihood crisis, but in order to be factual and to take the statistics of the past years before us, we see data sets that contradict your claim. On the one hand, 4.7 million people are employed. We all know that this figure has never been this high in recent years, one million fewer people have worked in 2010, and if we look at dynamics, then the number of people employed in Europe has certainly increased to one of the greatest levels once. The wages of those who work have increased steadily over the past period, including in 2020 during the economic downturn. I ask you, Congressman, to look at the statistics. For example, the amendment to the budget bill of 2023 before you also presents the 2021 facts, the 22 figures. In both years, there was not only nominal but real wage growth. This is the second very important thing I am proposing to you, Congressman. The third thing is related to war and related economic processes. It is true, in fact, that the war has led to the unsatisfaction of economic growth forecasts and economic cooling throughout Europe, in parallel with the rise in prices. This is not a Hungarian specialty. I would like to report to the Honourable Parliament that in this situation last year, the Hungarian economy increased by 1 percentage point more than the EU average, and if the Hungarian government's forecasts are implemented, this year's economic performance will be higher than the EU average. At the same time, of course, we feel the negative effects; not only are we talking about growths of 4-5 percent, but also smaller ones, but also inflation. At the same time, it is a European process, where the government takes all measures within its competence to reduce inflation, which has been outlined in detail by the Prime Minister. In view of this, I ask you to evaluate the measures taken by the government. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-03-06-130	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. In return, I'll give the floor to the congressman in a minute.
u2023-03-06-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It's good that you mentioned employment records. It is so easy to come up with good employment data if companies under five are not included in this, which have been destroyed by thousands in the last few years. Or, for example, those who have lost the opportunity to be entitled to any kind of unemployment benefit are not included. They're out of the system, aren't they? You mentioned the budget. Hungary doesn't really have a budget at the moment. Now they're legislating a series of data that, by the way, wasn't right when they adopted it last summer. [[17 .30]] In a situation where wages have increased seven times when you go to a grocery store and you can't spend less than HUF 30,000, even though you didn't buy anything compared to a year ago when you were able to buy the same half, I have to say that millions of Hungarians are affected by this situation, and that is why it is not the inflation in Orbán, it is not the war, it is Viktor Orbán's fault. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2023-03-06-132	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-03-06-133	Thank you, Mr. President. I am in a difficult situation when it comes to telling someone that if they no longer believe in the government, they should believe Eurostat or the European Commission. With all due respect, Mr President, I would like you to review Eurostat data on employment data and look at the methodology. Each Member State shall report the number of employees using the same methodology. I am not saying that the European Union bodies and other international organisations say that one of the largest jobs in Hungary after 2010 was at European level once. Wage statistics are also based on a common methodology, I do not say, Eurostat says that in Hungary there has been real wage growth in recent years in 2020, even during the economic downturn. And with regard to inflation, I did not hear the expression of inflation in Orbán from 2014 or 15 when, with substantial economic growth, this indicator was minus, and I do not know whether in France they were talking about macron inflation or in Germany they were talking about inflation in Scholz, where inflation was about three times as high as 2021 in 2022. Therefore, I would ask you to make your judgement in the light of these international data, Congressman. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-06-134	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Dávid Bedő, Ferenc Gelencsér, Szabolcs Szabó and Márton Tompos, representatives of the Momentum, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question. It's an address. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the head of the Momentum Group has informed me in advance that he is asking for a personal reply, so he must answer the third-round immediate question in the wake of Mr. Prime Minister's absence. Dear Parliament, Ágnes Kunhalmi, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question with a title entitled "Ongoing issues." Due to his absence, Minister Bence Rétvári, Minister of State, was entitled to reply. I ask you to accept the response or to ask for the answer in person.
u2023-03-06-135	Thank you, I accept.
u2023-03-06-136	You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2023-03-06-137	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, In the last few days, weeks, I've had to face it, and my family and I have had to deal with the fact that we haven't found a very important epilepsy medicine for a baby in the family, and we haven't been able to... we've actually been desperate. The apothecary didn't know what the cause was, we didn't really get a substitute drug, and on Facebook, the families got together, who had this problem, and we were able to find this drug in the first pharmacy in Párkány. They also asked there because they said that a lot of Hungarians have gone out in the last few weeks, taking this medicine called Sabril 500 mg as sugar. In fact, we do not know what the reason is, and I thought that I might ask the government what the problem of care is, because unfortunately, I am not only experiencing it, but more and more people are indicating it to me. Many have also indicated that they experience similar experiences with medical aids, ranging from walking sticks to adult diapers, which cause a terrible problem. But not only this medicine, but also, let's say, antihypertensives, some insulins are missing in Hungary and at least five to six types of medicine. Therefore, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State, on behalf of the Government, why the supply disruption experienced by patients. What does the government do to make up for the shortage, and how can it happen that in Hungary there is no medicine available to Hungarian families in the surrounding countries? I would be honored to thank you in advance for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2023-03-06-138	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2023-03-06-139	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, He raised a question that we have been talking about for weeks and months, as at the end of last year we have also said that this year, unfortunately, will also be about the more difficult purchase of individual medicines in many countries. One of the reasons for this is the war, the supply problems, the energy crisis and many other things that have taken place because of the energy price explosion and the war, and the hardship of the pre-epidemic world trade supply routes. Croatia lacks more than 300 medicines, even champagne tablets to treat colds. In France, there is also a shortage of paracetamol preparations for children. Germany has one of the biggest drug shortages in Europe, 300 medicines are not available, antibiotics, antipyretics, heart attacks. In Italy there is a shortage of antibiotics, medicines for the treatment of lung infections, and it is difficult to find a European country where the pharmaceutical authorities would not report that there has not been a shortage of different medicines in a long time than there has been in recent months. Thus, the most basic medicines are often missing, and the cause of this is, among other things, the fact that there are sanctions, the fact that certain raw materials cannot be obtained from Ukraine because of the war, from Russia because of the sanctions, and the situation of pharmaceutical companies is more difficult. In Hungary, the National Institute for Pharmacy and Food Health called attention to this months ago. Everyone is advised to look at the OGYÉI website, as it is indicated there that if there is a shortage of any of the medicines, this has been the case for decades, then what other medicines can be replaced instead. They've contacted distributors, and they've taken a lot of other measures that I'd like to return to in a minute. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-06-140	Thank you, Deputy Minister. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return.
u2023-03-06-141	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, After all, it is difficult for a mother who tries to make up for a drug at night for her child, that both in Slovakia and in the war would work there, and those sanctions would also be available in Romania. So I understand that, but I do think that this government would have a responsibility to solve it. I would like to propose a recipe to solve the problem, if that is the case, for example to support the budget proposal of the MSZP, which would provide a targeted surplus of HUF 60 billion in amending the budget to solve the problem, for example, and to provide safe and accessible medicines and medical aids, so please support it. Thank you very much.
u2023-03-06-142	Thank you very much. I'll give you the floor for a rejoinder to the Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2023-03-06-143	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I'm sure you know we've increased the amount of money we've made in the last few years. But if you know the solution so well, send your own proposal to the SPD in Berlin. Germany cannot cope with this task at the moment, even though Germany has its own pharmaceutical companies. Thanks to God, Hungarian pharmaceuticals and the Hungarian pharmaceutical industry are also strong, so we are even among the better countries, where there are many things that can be produced locally. That is why OGYÉI has made contact with the marketing authorisation holders, as I said, and has also talked to the pharmaceutical wholesalers in connection with marketing authorisations, and there are, more specifically, the possibility of making individual import declarations, issuing quota licences, precisely so that what is missing is either produced at home, in Hungary or imported more easily from abroad. But perhaps you can see for what you've so attacked, the structure of the vaccine factory in Debrecen. [[Zoltán Varga: Where is the vaccine factory? He should be producing by now.]] All they did was criticize and attack. We may not need to criticize the development of the Hungarian pharmaceutical industry, because then we would probably be more self-sufficient, and these international swings would have a less impact on the supply of medicinal products in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-06-144	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Brenner Koloman and László György Lukács, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Prime Minister? It's an address. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the leader of the Jobbik faction said in advance that he would ask for a personal answer, so that he will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate questions due to Mr. Prime Minister's absence. Dear Parliament, Ander Balázs and László György Lukács, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs an immediate question. It's an address. Due to Mr. Minister's absence, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I ask Members of the Council to accept the person who is responding. [[17.40]]
u2023-03-06-145	No, we'll wait for Minister. Thank you very much.
u2023-03-06-146	I would like to inform you, Mr President, that Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Construction and Transport an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Minister? It's an address. Minister Nándor Csepreghy, Minister of State, is already here to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2023-03-06-147	I accept your replacement. Thank you.
u2023-03-06-148	I ask you to understand, I suddenly looked at Mr. Secretary of State, and it turned out that Mr. Secretary of State Bálint the Great was here. I ask you to understand that this happens when you enter so quickly. Mr. Secretary, I ask for your understanding of the misrepresentation. You have the floor. We're gonna reset the clock.
u2023-03-06-149	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, From today, taxiing increases by 10 percent. We could say we didn't ask for such a gift, but for whom what they had arranged. In fact, in a short one year, the cost of taxiing increased by 45-57 percent for taxis, and the cost of taxiing increased by that much for users. But this would not otherwise be the case if there were real competition in passenger transport, and if we took advantage of the capabilities of information technology, then there would be an opportunity for what is, in fact, a strong sector in our country to better benefit users themselves, those who want to take a taxi. We also remember when you served the will of the taxi drivers in everything and, in fulfillment of everything, basically, the distribution of freight from the community economy was banished from Hungary, and taxiing remained the only option available in metropolitan transport. Uber and its other associates practically fled Hungary, leaving behind the otherwise smallest businesses, individual entrepreneurs or who wanted to do this work as a supplement, who expected this income. Not only would it help in the passenger race if the Community economy could return to Hungary again, but it would also make this mode of transport cheaper. In fact, it is safe to say that it would speed up transport, since it would be possible to get a taxi sooner, to get to motor vehicles faster. So it would be good not only for small businesses, but it would also destroy the existing businesses of large taxi companies, which now, we can say, raise prices with many decision-makers to an unbelievably high level. In view of all this, it is therefore worth clarifying, Mr Secretary of State, that there is a possibility to change the rules; it is being used by the 21st EDF. We want to make use of the benefits of sharing economy for the benefit of people who want to take part; and we want to help the smallest entrepreneurs who want to participate again. As right-wing conservatives, we believe that they have the opportunity, and they need to be given room for business. We're asking if the government saw it that way. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik. Bence Rétvári: Uber dollars are rolling towards Jobbik.]]
u2023-03-06-150	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State Bálint the Great. Here you go.
u2023-03-06-151	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Congressman, allow me to start by saying that transport is of the utmost importance to the government, including public transport and, of course, individual transport. We will also review it with the various organisations, including taxi transport organisations, and we will consult it in order to achieve the best possible solution. However, if I have already heard about transport, let me express my comment on the fact that we believe that the county lease and the country lease planned to be introduced from 1 May will provide a great deal of help both from an economic point of view and from a place to stay, as it offers an opportunity for both Budapest, the agglomeration, the region, and rural villages, where Hungarians can use both rail and bus transport under very favourable conditions. In this connection, I would also like to say that it is, of course, true of both county-righted cities and the capital, that we look forward to the cooperation of the mayors in connection with this, in connection with the county lease, to make these public transports even more favourable within the limits of the given settlements. We'd be happy to hear back from all the mayors on this one. I think that this will be one of the most significant developments in the coming period, from the point of view of transport, including public transport, with which the government can really help Hungarian people. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-06-152	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2023-03-06-153	Thank you very much for your reply, Mr Secretary of State. Our main objective is to make this type of transport cheaper. And making it cheaper can be achieved by competition. Clearly, it is not in the interests of the people that the taxi drivers are doing in this case. That is why it is necessary to consider introducing Community services, such sharing services. It is important, in addition to all this, to establish fair regulation free of extremes, so that it can be used on a level playing field, because it is our intention to make this kind of transport cheaper. And here we can ask the question that, although it doesn't matter to anyone, I think it doesn't matter what kind of car we're in on, for example, Bajcsy-Zsilinszky Road or Grand Boulevard, but I'm sure the sooner we get to some cab, the sooner we'll be in position. And I didn't want to criticize the central, especially the metropolitan transport, but basically tell you that you can get a taxi much sooner. Of course, solving traffic jams is another matter. We're on the side of the motorists, and we want this to work out. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] But back to the whole thing and the subject, I think the question is valid, and I'm sorry that I'm misusing the insured time frame...
u2023-03-06-154	Hard.
u2023-03-06-155	... how long we're gonna let the cost of taxiing go sky-high. That's the question we're waiting for. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2023-03-06-156	Thank you. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2023-03-06-157	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I think that this is the most favourable method of public transport, which is more favourable than the aforementioned county lease, or more environmentally friendly than the country lease, can be suggested, since we are talking about HUF 9450 and HUF 18 900. In the case of students, it does not reach a thousand forints to allow young people to use a county lease without limit. I think this is the best form of public transport today. With regard to the criticisms of the Mayor, I can also say that if the Mayor is interested in the introduction of the county lease, even within the territory of Budapest, then we are available. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-06-158	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, President Novak, representative of Mi Hazank, wishes to ask the Minister of Defence an immediate question:. Are you willing to put an end to the training of the Hungarian Defence Forces? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. Tamás Vargha has given him the right to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2023-03-06-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, but I would like to give Minister the opportunity to explain himself personally.
u2023-03-06-160	Congressman, I would like to inform you that Minister must answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Representative of President Novak, representative of Mi Hazank, would like to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:, Do you support the proposals for a solution to the Hungarian Movement? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári, Minister of State, was entitled to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2023-03-06-161	Thank you, Mr. President, but I'd like to wait for Minister.
u2023-03-06-162	I would like to inform you, Mr President, that the Minister must answer at the hour of the next immediate questions. Dear Parliament, President Novák, representative of Mi Hazank, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:.. The Hungarians decided: 97% did not vote for sanctions, but then why should Viktor Orbán vote for them in Brussels? Given that the Head of the Group of Mi Hazank did not make a preliminary statement on the personal response request, this should therefore be considered to be a personal response by the representative who asked the question on the basis of the House Rule of Decision. You have the floor.
u2023-03-06-163	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, During the government propaganda disguised as a national consultation, it is advertised on thousands of billboards of giants with public money. However, Viktor Orbán will vote for them in Brussels. Thus, Hungary is also assisting in the service of American interests, unfortunately, in the face of government fraud. [[17.50]] Our contractual obligation from our NATO membership would only help to protect it if a Member State was attacked, but Ukraine is not a NATO member. The Mi Hazank Movement also opposes the indirect support of the Soviet Ukraine by Hungary, pursuing a repressive policy against the Hungarian national part of Transcarpathia, and serving American interests. The embargo against the Russians has already caused invaluable damage in recent years, especially to Hungarian agriculture, and now Hungarian interests should be the first. Instead of serving the new world order, we need to promote our independence, our neutrality, and therefore peace, so according to the Mi Hazank Movement, it is time for us to take action against the expansion of the war with Hungary's veto. We really don't want a world war. Provokation would be the expansion of the military alliance on Russia's border, while the neutral zone is obviously of international interest. Peace, neutrality, independence should be one of the most important values, which is why I asked in September that the government was willing to take the Hungarian veto of NATO expansion in order to avoid World War II. At that time, they were just fooling around, and now, unfortunately, the Orbán government has joined the international line, according to the expectations of the Balliberal opposition. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Therefore, I ask you to at least answer, Mr Secretary of State or Minister, why you should vote on the sanctions that are being declared in Hungary that the entire Hungarian society opposes them. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-03-06-164	Thank you. I was just about to inform Congressman that Mr Gergely Gulyás, the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office, is responding on behalf of Prime Minister. I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go.
u2023-03-06-165	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, He asked why Viktor Orbán should vote for sanctions in Brussels. I am relieved to inform you that Prime Minister has not voted on any sanctions in Brussels. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-06-166	Thank you very much, Minister. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2023-03-06-167	Well, Minister, the Bilderberg Group's meetings and other meetings may not be held in Brussels either, I do not know where those meetings are held, in any case for the European Council meetings, or, as I understand, the next European Council will be held around 22-23 March, for which Viktor Orbán is preparing again to support them against parallel communication at home, not to exercise their veto rights, not to object, only at home on billboards, while he himself admitted, of course, to support them, because the international situation is increasing, and we are a small country in Hungary's understanding of Kovács László. On the other hand, I urge you to take the risk of veto, as should have been the case in many cases in Hungarian history, the unconditional vote on Romanian accession to the EU, or at the moment during NATO enlargement. We are very sorry that Hungary does not take advantage of the veto that was given, just as Viktor Orbán could vote against sanctions. But he himself acknowledged his support for these, unfortunately. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-03-06-168	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. You have the floor.
u2023-03-06-169	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, The fact is that the burning of the EU flag is probably not the best way to learn about the European Union's decision-making mechanism. The fact is that the Council of Heads of State and Government of the European Union is not a suitable forum to decide on sanctions there, and they never decide on sanctions there. Hungary always makes it clear to the relevant formations, the ministerial councils, that it does not agree with sanctions, especially those imposed on energy, and when we cannot enforce national interests, we also apply the veto. This is why Hungary has been excluded, which is why we have been exempted from the fact that Russia can continue to flow oil to Hungary by pipeline. In other cases, we do not live with a veto, but we have never agreed with sanctions, and we have always made that clear. What I can tell you is that, of course, Hungary will continue to do everything in the next period to ensure that Hungary's energy supply is secure, and if the country's interests so require, we will also use the veto option; if we get an exemption from it, this will not be necessary. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-06-170	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Tamás Mellár, representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What is going on here? It's an address. Minister Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, was entitled to respond to his absence. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding.
u2023-03-06-171	I'll take it.
u2023-03-06-172	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-03-06-173	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In the case of data leaks, the government acknowledged that they had prematurely released retail data. I quote the Government's Inventory: on 3 February 2023, the government commissioner responsible for the professional contribution to economic strategy tasks and the coordination of the programme for Hungary, i.e. László György's secretariat, sent a KSH data, then still considered to be embargoal, by mistake, with a citation mark. As a result, the government has taken action to withdraw access to embargo data from the publishing staff. I have a few questions about this. Why only the employee's access to embargoal data has been withdrawn, not the entire office of the government commissioner, since the close relationship of State Secretary László György with the Makronóm Institute from which the data was made public. Why did the retail data have access to the government commissioner of the program for Hungary? What urgent tasks can retail data and his work be associated with? Who, which other institutions regularly receive statistical data before official publication? I ask this question to the propagandaistery, the Minister of Propaganda Antal Rogán, who oversees the KSH, which in itself is actually a confession that the Hungarian Central Statistical Office belongs to the Minister of Propaganda. Thank you very much.
u2023-03-06-174	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2023-03-06-175	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, about history and circumstances. It is also common practice in other countries that the Statistical Office provides narrowly prior access to certain actors. The reason for this, which was already mentioned here, was to ensure the preparation for the interpretation of the published economic data; this also concerns public bodies, certain news agencies and editorial offices. Such access is subject to specific rules, there is also a declaration to be signed by the data subjects, and I would also like to draw your attention to who can receive such prior access, who can receive data, and who will be published by the HCSO. The investigation into the case has established the circumstances. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that both the HCSO and the Government Commissioner have published their views on the matter, which are also public. What is important: no data leaks from the HCSO, the problem is that a staff member of the secretariat responsible for economic strategy tasks has, by mistake, transmitted a data that was then still considered embargoed. Therefore, if the question of how he could have received it, it comes from the task, this Commissioner is also responsible for the economic strategy. I regret, however, that you are using this case to attack the institution of which you were previously president with speeches and embarrassing interviews. The fact that you are no longer the president of the HCSO, I think there is no reason for you to undermine the prestige of an institution with decades of professional history. [[Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi: That's right!]] Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-06-176	Congressman Mellar has the floor.
u2023-03-06-177	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State is probably having trouble understanding texts. I wasn't criticizing KSH this time. [[Bence Rétvári: Who is it?]] It is the government's activity, because the question here is whether access to the data is appropriate. I doubted whether there was a strong reason why the Secretary of State would receive these data a day earlier, or even, as it actually did, three days earlier, because I do not actually see why the program "Teach for Hungary" needs to receive retail data. [[18.00]] And by the way, I think it would be good if you didn't work from those panels all the time, but you tried to argue. So it's not like I don't like the Statistical Office or want to go back. What I would like, by the way, is that there are clear conditions and that statistical data can always be passed on to those who are entitled to do so. That's all there is to it. Thank you very much.
u2023-03-06-178	Thank you. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2023-03-06-179	As inviting as it may be, honourable Member, I will not go personal, even if you do it every single time. But what I'm limited to is the facts. I'll always limit myself to those things, and I'm sorry you're ignoring that. As regards the activities of the government commissioner concerned, there is the communication concerned, which includes dealing with an economic strategy. This is the case even if you deliberately leave this out of your speech every single time. It's still a fact. That's the reason. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, while you are speaking for many times about a data leak in this House, there have been more serious cases, and if you tell me several times, I will tell you many times: GDP data leaked in 1999. The stock market fell. And I'm going to ask you again, do you know who the president of the KSH was? You know very well it was you. Then he didn't want a police force on alert and he didn't want a parliamentary inquiry committee. What's this if it's not a left-wing double standard? ! I wish you good work for your career. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-03-06-180	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What do you think of this, Prime Minister? It's an address. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the head of the LMP faction has stated in advance that he is asking for a personal answer, so he must answer in the hour of the third immediate questions due to Mr. Prime Minister's absence. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Construction and Transport an immediate question:. Who is responsible for this, Minister? It's an address. Due to the absence of Minister, Mr.Bálint Nagy was entitled to reply. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity. [[For signal:]] Yes, the floor is yours.
u2023-03-06-181	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, As I indicated in advance, it will be the case of the investment in Alga. Mr. Secretary. The government office gave us permission to destroy an unparalleled natural treasure, a national symbol of ours, the High Coast of Alpine. In an irregular procedure, a gigantic investment was granted, and this was confirmed by the court, since on the motion of the Aliga Baths Association, this building permit was destroyed not too long ago. The government office has authorized investments that prevent public functions, so that people can reach Lake Balaton. And all of this is in addition to the fact that the government has declared this investment, this gigantic investment, to be a priority for the national economy. What exactly happened? In September, the developer presented a concept at a public hearing, which was rejected by the locals, and then promised to rework this proposal, thoroughly recast it, but did not do so, they submitted a licence application, and on 21 December the government office gave a building permit to build a five-coastal, six-storey, 18-meter monstrosity building at the top of the High Coast of Alga. The documentation also explains that the eight million years of geological value can be broken down by investors so that larger buildings can be built at the bottom of the brass wall, so that more money can be made by the investor. Minister of State, Minister and Deputy Minister said earlier that the system of priority public investments was ripe for the review and that the shore of Lake Balaton could only be built on what local communities accept, and they also talked about the need to guarantee the protection, full use and accessibility of natural resources, which is what the Ministry is trying to do. Mr. Secretary. My questions are: are you finally willing to make rules so that the goals that you have said and which I have just quoted can be achieved? Are you willing to make rules to prevent the destruction of our natural resources and rules that allow local communities to defend their own interests? Thank you in advance for your reply.
u2023-03-06-182	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State Bálint the Great. Here you go.
u2023-03-06-183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, let me begin by saying that the protection of Lake Balaton, the natural protection of Lake Balaton, the protection of the architectural values of Lake Balaton is in the interest of all of us and the interests of all Hungarians, because it is indeed the interests of all Hungarians. The question of Club Aliga has been here several times before the National Assembly, and I think it is not undeserving, because it is indeed a very important and decisive matter, but, as Mr. In rethinking its original intention, the investor reduced its initial installation plans to nearly a quarter, and, as you said, the Pécs General Court issued an order on 15 February 2023 imposing a suspensive effect, which cannot continue the construction itself until a court ruling. So, in the absence of any involvement in an ongoing case, I cannot comment, but I would like to state one thing in general: one of the most important objectives of the new, upcoming Investment Act is that only improvements can be made in Hungary, whether they are state, municipal private or industrial developments that represent the interests of local people, and that there should not be any development that is contrary to local interests. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-03-06-184	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. You have a rejoinder, Congressman. Please.
u2023-03-06-185	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Last year, the government office granted two building permits to destroy the High Coast of Alga, to destroy our natural resources. What is the Secretary of State's opinion about this? The only reason they didn't dooze this unparalleled natural treasure was because the local NGO attacked the building permit, and the court gave them the truth: they destroyed the building permit. We owe this civil society a debt of gratitude. But I think that this situation shows that the situation is unsustainable, that the legislative environment is unsustainable, because the government office is ready to issue permits for such destruction and destruction at any time. Dear Secretary of State, I was present at a board meeting in Balatonvilágos, where local representatives said that they could not protect local interests because the government classified this amazing, gigantic project as a major investment in the national economy. Is there any intention of the government to withdraw this decision and to take this priority status away from this investment? I feel that this is the only way that the local community can protect this natural treasure and protect local interests.
u2023-03-06-186	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-03-06-187	Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, I believe that neither the government nor the Parliament can make a decision and make decisions that are contrary to local interests. As I said earlier, in 2019 the local government made a decision at the time to support it, compared to which the investor reduced the planned installation to a quarter of its original intention. We're talking about an ongoing case. In any case, I suggest that we wait for the end of this, but it is absolutely certain that the protection of Lake Balaton is also very important and determined by the government, and it is therefore important that both the environment built in Lake Balaton and its natural environment be protected as far as possible in this respect. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-03-06-188	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Gabriella Selmeczi, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: what means can be used to prevent such acts from being committed? It's an address. Due to Mr. Minister's absence, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I ask you to accept the person of the responding person or to ask the Minister himself for an answer.
u2023-03-06-189	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2023-03-06-190	You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2023-03-06-191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The sexual exploitation and trauma of an evolving child is a sin that we can never forgive any human being. Anyone who exploits the influence of a child for the purpose of exploiting his own inclinations should, in our view, be exempt in any case. So far, it has been typical that such degenerate, child - entangled immoral bastards have tried to keep their sexual affections secret, but it seems that a new era has begun with the case of a pedagogical assistant encouraged by western societies as a result of sensitizing campaigns. We find it incredibly outrageous and unacceptable that an employee of a man in his 40th year of primary school, who has daily contact with children, speaks proudly and naturally about having sexual relations with a 15-year-old student boy. Please tell us about this in your Internet video. [[18.10]] Ladies and gentlemen, The fruitage of Western freedom, sensitization, the LGBTQ lobby supported by Soros is ripe. Where will this unbridled process end? Our duty as guardians of traditional values for normal people is to protect our children from soul-breaking fashion waves in recent forms of madness, which we will always do. On the basis of what has been said, I respectfully ask the Deputy Minister what means can be used to prevent such and similar acts from being committed. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-03-06-192	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2023-03-06-193	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Last year, along with the parliamentary election, there was a referendum where 3.6 million people voted in one direction, namely in the direction that this kind of approach, this kind of propaganda, the civil organisation of child sexual education, could not be allowed to continue, but the parents' right to raise their children, and their obligation to raise the child. It is not possible for NGOs to try to raise children on various important issues related to gender identity, even in spite of parents' wishes and behind parents' backs. There has never been such support on any issue in Hungary in the same direction as on the issue of child protection. The left was against the Child Protection Act, and the Child Protection Act was attacked from abroad. To date, there are still procedures in Brussels on the Child Protection Act, but never so many Hungarians stood up for a Hungarian proposal, namely: the issue of child protection. [[Zoltán Varga intervenes.]] That is why it is important to take action on this matter. The Ombudsman also launched a wider investigation, and the integrated legal protection service also said what green number and e-mail address child rights representatives expect to report when it is suspected that any child's abuse has occurred in any way, either outside school or outside school. The victim himself or the parent may apply, or any educator who sees this may feel free to apply for this number and receive assistance, legal assistance, and obviously assist in the processing of this otherwise. The police will also investigate every action thoroughly. No case will remain unsolved. In this year and in previous years, procedures have been launched for all notifications. In January this year, in total, 94 cases of pedophilia crimes were investigated by the investigating authorities. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-03-06-194	Thank you, Deputy Minister. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return. Here you go.
u2023-03-06-195	Mr. President. Dear Deputy Minister, In Hungary the laws are good. We have good laws, criminal code, child protection law, very good enforcement regulations. I think we have a two-way job. We Members of Parliament have to look at the need to amend something at the statutory level, to tighten something up, and the government, as executives, has to examine the fact that members of the child protection signalling system, whether they are teachers, school principals, child protection professionals, guardians, social workers, have always fulfilled their reporting obligations. You know, if there's any suspicion, the fact that a child has been harmed, it's their duty to indicate. I think that's where we need to support all members of the child protection warning system, I say, whether it's teachers or child protection professionals, so that there can be no more fear of the LGBTQ lobby supported by Soros than of the consequences of the penal code. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-03-06-196	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, István Hollik, representative of KDNP... [[Péter Cseresnyés: Rejoice!]] Excuse me, excuse me, excuse me, Deputy Minister. [[Bence Rétvári: It's okay.]]
u2023-03-06-197	Thank you very much for the floor. Indeed, we must act decisively, as you have said, Madam honourable Member, which is why I would like to draw everyone's attention to the number 0680620055, which can be called free of charge by anyone and if children need it. [[Zoltán Varga intervenes.]] help, then contact them. As I told you, the police are investigating every case. In 7 cases of sexual coercion, 33 cases of sexual assault, 34 cases of sexual abuse, 28 cases of child pornography, 22 cases of indecency. We're going to investigate every single announcement, try to protect every single child. The police can only act in hindsight in order to bring the perpetrators to police hands, to investigate what real crimes are and to be punished worthy of those who commit this completely repulsive and un humane crime by doing this to minors and children. It's unforgivable on anyone's part. He can completely destroy the child's life if they do this to him when he's little. But we legislators must strive not to do, like many organisations calling themselves rights defenders, to excuse these people, or as the left, which is deeply silent about this matter, but to act decisively and do everything to protect children, since the referendum, 3.6 million voters have obliged us to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-03-06-198	Thank you very much for the Deputy Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, István Hollik, representative of KDNP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. How can we prevent further rampage of extremist elements in Hungary? It's an address. Due to Mr. Minister's absence, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity. [[István Hollik: Yes.]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-03-06-199	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, In the last month, an unprecedented and gruesome series of attacks took place on the streets of Budapest, the group calling themselves antifascist, but in fact with extreme left-wing views and using Bolshevik methods, rallied in Budapest. They were members of the Antifa, the consequences of their actions were brutal, eight were beaten up, three of whom suffered serious injuries. It recalls the darkest era in our history that far-left offenders committed all this with vipers, hammers, metal bars, or lead-lined gloves. Three of the perpetrators are foreigners and 1 are Hungarian citizens. The latter is a member of the Szikra Movement, founded by Mr András Jámbor. I suppose this is not a coincidence, since, as you know, the movement of András Jámbor was named after the same newspaper, founded by Lenin in 1900. Perhaps it is not a coincidence that the unsub had previously supported András Jámbor's campaign and took photos of Bencé Tordai during the campaign, and is also associated with several left-wing politicians, and is a regular participant in the demonstrations of the already mentioned Szikra Movement. This crime and the facts about the perpetrators are clear signs that far-left organisations are set up with networked and premeditated actions at international level. However, the task of the police is to maintain order in Hungary, so I ask the Secretary of State how we can prevent further rampage of extremist elements in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-03-06-200	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2023-03-06-201	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is truly unacceptable for anyone to think that he has the right to go out on the streets and who does not like him, beats him there, on the street, in simple terms, with pepper spray, hits him with an iron rod, a viper, and takes into his own hands the thing he thinks is justice. In fact, however, he is only carrying out an infinitely dangerous crime, which is intolerable and unacceptable. It is even more intolerable and even more unacceptable if a person who, as a politician, calls for extra responsibility, does not call for the cessation of violence, does not apologize to the public, does not follow the public, does not say that the foundations of these movements must be removed, but even talks about the fact that it is the responsibility of the Szikra to demand moral and legal compensation for the attacks that have taken place on them in recent weeks. So once again, they want to demand ideological satisfaction from those whose ideological world is outgrown by a group whose members, arriving from Germany, Italy, select Hungarian and foreign tourists on the streets of Budapest at random and attack them from behind, first strike their feet to force them to land, then beat them, and then blow their eyes off with pepper spray so they can't see who the perpetrators are. So they don't even dare look the man in the eye they're doing this to, they don't want to be seen. Well, in the case of such a team, they are not saying that, yes, we are following the Hungarian public, that we have provided a philosophical basis for this, that we are building and supporting a movement that creates the ideological basis for this, but that they still want to claim legal satisfaction. [[18.20]] Two of our fellow politicians, András Jámbor and Bence of Tordai, can be said to be real Gergényi Prize winner politicians, because for them, the people with vipers on the streets who are completely unjustly aggressive are not actually criminals to be imprisoned, but they are still talking about the movement having to demand moral satisfaction from the Hungarian public. I feel like they're completely missing their role. They are not communist young revolutionaries in the early 1900s, but in a very dangerous period of danger, they should act responsibly and reject all forms of violence, not exonerate rapists. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-06-202	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2023-03-06-203	Thank you very much. We agree on the assessment of these Members, Mr Secretary of State. We're talking about real armchair communists who sit and spread their Bolshevik views within the Spark Movement. But violence must be clearly rejected, but it is not possible. On the one hand, I thank the police for their firm and hard work. There was a time in Hungary before 2010 when the police were unable to maintain order, despite the fact that Ferenc Gyurcsány, the then prime minister, admitted on television that he directly instructs the police commissioner. [[Zoltán Varga: They were agents sewed in mugskin!]] Nevertheless, they could not maintain order at that time. This time, thank God, is over, we will keep order, and we ask the police to act very firmly against any Bolshevik political activist who uses violence in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-06-204	Thank you very much. The Deputy Minister shall be rejoined. You have the floor.
u2023-03-06-205	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I would also like to thank the police that the perpetrators were in police hands within 48 hours and were able to prosecute them. I also believe that the formation of a investigative team at the Budapest Police Headquarters can help to catch all perpetrators and prevent any further action. But what's sad is what Congressman Varga did here while he was yelling at us about agents in leathers in Parliament. Honourable Member, when the Hungarian Guardians did the same thing as the Antiphasists, you were most upset. Since then, you have been running with the former Guardians in the elections, but then they were very upset, and they ran to Brussels to report who marched on the streets of Hungary. Now, when far-left-minded people are organized, within the framework of an organization that is somewhere considered to be a terrorist organization, they do the same, they are not outraged, they are just joking and shouting, honourable Member. [[Zoltán Varga: Tell us what we could have done.]] This should be done with the same indignation that the government has done with the Hungarian Guard. Your government couldn't keep the Hungarian Guard off the Hungarian streets, and the Fidesz-KDNP government was able to push it back. That's how we're gonna keep the antifas off the street. Neither Guardians nor Antiphasists will threaten anyone on the Hungarian streets as long as there is a Fidesz-KDNP government. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-06-206	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Now came the moment when Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK, could ask the Minister of Energy an immediate question: . Why doesn't grey water technology appear anywhere? It's an address. Because of his absence, Minister Zsófia Koncz has authorised the Secretary of State to reply. I ask you to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister himself for an answer.
u2023-03-06-207	Of course I accept it, I'm honored.
u2023-03-06-208	You have the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-03-06-209	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Unfortunately, the Hungarian government, your government, has been reduced to the point that it is now engaged in an open war against the population of Debrecen, simply because they dared to say no to the investment of an environmentally destructive Chinese battery factory. We know that you know that the city has been deceiving public opinion for months, bullying and even manipulating data. This already works at a level that has also become operational in relation to the water supply of the factory. Compared to the original plans, the new government narrative is that the factory will use largely so-called grey water. Let's not get into the fact that gray water isn't the kind of gray water that is supposed to be, but let's just say it's purified sewage. The madness is that grey water technology has not been included in the permit documents submitted by the factory, nor has it been included in the environmental permits issued. To my question, the Chinese investor's representative, even the head of the Debrecen Waterworks, raised his hand, hmm, and said to ask someone else, they don't know or don't want to know, ask the mayor. The mayor, on the other hand, is very quiet. All government figures in this case are just deflecting and lying. That's why I'm turning to you now, Madam Secretary. Answer: the city's green program originally intended to use grey water for irrigation, now feeding it to the Chinese factory, even though it was not originally included in the environmental permits nor in the approval documents of the battery plant. How do you view this as environmentally friendly? What about the drought, deserting lands in Debrecen? In what phase is the planning of the grey water pipeline system, if any, the possible construction, since this should be started. How many kilometers do you plan to use? Has the pipeline track affected private property, if so, been informed or possibly compensated by the owners concerned? I mean, when does the system start building, and when is it due to be completed? What are the costs associated with the construction of the grey water system, and from what funding will this be? Thank you very much and I look forward to your reply. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-03-06-210	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Zsófia Koncz. Here you go.
u2023-03-06-211	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to reject the fact that we do not take the concerns of the Debrecen seriously. The fact that we are dealing with this matter in the highest priority is also reflected in the debate day that we took part in. At the same time, it was very, very sad that the people who suggested this were not here. For example, our fellow Member Szabó Timea did not come, and our fellow Member Éva Sebők simply said that there is no point in the debate day. I think it makes sense, and it makes sense to talk about these issues. Today, Minister for Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó spoke in detail about water demand issues, the water base in Debrecen. He said what we said before, but now I'd like to repeat it. The replacement of the Debrecen water base is currently 75,000 cubic meters per day. The water demand of Debrecen city is 40,000 cubic meters per day. He also pointed out that in the eighties, the city consumed 90,000 cubic meters of water per day because of the expansion of the socialist major industry. On average, the water demand of the new battery plant will be 3378 cubic metres. In July last year, the Debrecen General Assembly voted with unanimous support from opposition representatives to build an industrial infrastructure in the southern industrial zone that allows a total of 24,000 cubic metres of water to be used. I think that should be a reassuring answer. As far as grey water is concerned, because, in this connection, Mr President, I would like to inform you that according to the international jargon, we call the water that has already been used, for example, for washing hands, bathing, and cannot be drank or cooked with it. Used water or grey water can be used in many areas. The name does not refer to its colour, but to the quality of water. I ask you, Member, to accept our position on this point. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-06-212	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2023-03-06-213	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I'm sorry, but for God's sake, he didn't say a word about where gray water would come from in the factory. They're talking about the gray water in the factory, but we can't tell who's gonna do this, who's gonna be compensated, how many kilometers of wiring they're gonna put down, nothing at all. I'm glad you defined what gray water means, but that doesn't make the Debrecen happier. According to the shadow government, it was a mistake to bring such an environmentally destructive investment to Hungary at all, and it was a mistake not to ask the inhabitants, including the Debrecens, about it. The shadow government has drawn up precise proposals to ensure that this will never happen again. For all investments that are dangerous to the environment, the environmental impact assessment should be mandatory and it should be prohibited by law to allow the government to take areas away from the municipalities as it pleases. Therefore, it is quite clear, and I think you agree that the shadow government is Hungary's only hope that no more destructive battery factories can be built. [[Defiance on the pro-government side.]] I trust him very much, you understand what the future is. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-03-06-214	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. There you go. You have the floor. [[18.30]]
u2023-03-06-215	Thank you very much for the floor. I hope you understand, Mr President, that if this does bring a little smile to my face, as the shadow government and members of the Democratic Coalition also held a press conference in Dunaújváros two years ago on why the battery plant did not arrive there. That's one of the questions you raised. The other reason we think very seriously is that, in accordance with European Union and Hungarian legislation, and even in terms of limits, the environmental aspects of the factory must be met with the strictest possible rules. Otherwise, this justifies this not only in the case of the Debrecen battery plant, but also in the case of all Hungarian investments. And I think that when we talk about the Hungarian automotive industry and the Hungarian automotive industry, we must take very seriously the fact that the future is in electric cars, and the fact that Brussels and green politicians are saying this in all respects in the West shows that we have to take part in this competition. [[Zoltán Varga: That's right, I want it to be built on Felcsú!]] And I think that the Hungarian people are able to cope with this new technology in electric car production. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] take a prominent role. I think we should say (the president rings the bell.) , 2010 when there were not one million jobs [[Sic!]] then it would have been very interesting to have this debate. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-06-216	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the immediate questioning. It's 6:30. We're moving on to questioning. Dear Parliament, László Sebian-Petrovszki, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice a question: It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-03-06-217	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, About a month ago, I submitted a written question to your secretary and your ministry about whether the appointed bailiffs were legally active. You were kind enough to answer that, and your reply had nothing to do with what I asked as a question, so I am going to try the same questions here in plenary, in case I succeed now. The story is well known to all of us: György Schadl, President of the Hungarian Faculty of Executives of the Court, was arrested about a year and a half ago on charges of corruption and corruption. Nevertheless, he remains the chairman of this body because he has not resigned, he has not been acquitted, he has not been appointed to replace another president. We know that a number of new bailiffs have been appointed since then, and we do not know exactly their number, and we know from a announcement in May last year that until then 35 such new bailiffs have been appointed, perhaps this can now be of the order of a hundred. Under the law, the executive shall take an oath before the President of the Executive Faculty within one month of the appointment, or his term of office shall cease. The law specifically refers the oath to the sole authority of the president, in this case György Schadl in prison, so neither his vice president nor the secretary of the board can replace him in this. My questions, Mr. Secretary of State: 1. Did the new bailiffs visit György Schadl in his cell? I'd really like to see the situation as you describe what happened at that time. 2. If so, and so it is, what can we expect to expect to be a legitimate operation, what justice are we talking about in this country if the bailiffs are to be sworn off in these circumstances? And if you didn't go to György Schadl, does that mean that the executioners appointed in the last year and a half are illegal, for example, the evictions they have supervised and executed are legal or illegal? I look forward to your answers to these questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-03-06-218	I give the floor to Secretary Robert Répássy. Here you go.
u2023-03-06-219	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, In accordance with my reply to your previous written question, I would like to inform you that the law on judicial enforcement is 230. According to Section 2 of the Act, general supervision of the implementing body is exercised by the Supervisory Authority for Regulatory Activities. The Authority shall supervise the handling of complaints concerning executives, deputy executives and candidates for execution, with the exception of cases falling within the jurisdiction of the court. Well, honourable Member, I have done what you have not done, which is to say, that I have contacted the Supervisory Authority for Regulatory Activities on your question, and I have received the following answer: I have been informed by the authority that the appointment and oath of the independent judicial enforcer is carried out in accordance with the laws in force and the organisational and operational regulations of the faculty. Please accept my reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-06-220	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Sándor Szabó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister for Culture and Innovation:. What do you think that most people think that all families with children should receive the same amount of support? Why don't you support the MSZP's proposal to double the family allowance? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-03-06-221	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, According to KSH data, the family allowance has remained unchanged since 2008, which is also due to the fact that your government has not increased the support by a penny in the last 13 years. According to Ágnes Hornung, State Secretary for Family Support, child rearing should not be an additional burden. With this, I think, personally, I too, our faction fully agree, and if that is the case, we believe that financial support for children should be significantly increased. According to a recent research carried out by the Research Centre, 56 percent of economically active Hungarians would prefer the same level of support to all children's families rather than income-related tax incentives, and nearly half and 43 percent of respondents also say that the government's financial support for family support does not provide sufficient support for families. For this reason, we say that we need to provide financial support to Hungarian families to the extent that it provides real help compared to the current situation, especially with regard to high inflation, high food prices and rising prices. Therefore, we say that the family allowance should be doubled, indexed and increased every year by the rate of inflation. In addition, the MSZP has already submitted this proposal to Parliament several times, and we have done the same again recently, as we believe that the family support that has not been increased for 13 years has lost significantly its value. For this reason, I ask what you think about the fact that most people think families raising children should receive the same amount of support. Is it okay that the family allowance is now less than half of what it was when it came to the change of regime? And why don't you support the MSZP's proposal to double the family allowance? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2023-03-06-222	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Eszter Vitalyos. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2023-03-06-223	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Fidesz-KDNP was elected as governing power for the fourth time, with a fairly convincing majority, not by the Balliberal polls. When voters choose a party, I think that they also believe in the social trends represented by the party, and that they have also put faith in the work-based society, which has been being built by the government for 13 years now. People's feedback suggests that a convincing majority of voters agree. Instead of aid, we believe in work, instead of the aid-based world, we believe in a work-based society. But let's look back a little bit, because you were in the government during a crisis. Do you think that during an economic crisis, they helped people and families by taking away their 13th month pension? Or was it intended to help that after 2006, regular child protection support and family tax relief for parents with one and two children could no longer be used, and that the tax relief for large families was reduced to less than half? This was your crisis management, which the left gave to families during the economic crisis. On the other hand, as the Prime Minister said last week, we are also trying to keep the benefits for families at a level during a global economic crisis and even expand them if possible. Our goal is that families can sustain themselves from work, so that Hungarian families can be self-reliant and responsible. By introducing the family tax relief, we have provided the families with a much greater income gain than your relief system. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-06-224	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Ander Balázs, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior: "What are you doing to ensure that the social disaster does not undermine those working in the social field? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman. [[18.40]]
u2023-03-06-225	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The budget of 22 devotes 122 billion forints to the personal benefits of social, child protection and child welfare institutions, together with additional wages. The original budget of 23 and the amendment that has now been brought before Parliament would give 135 billion, a nominal increase of 10 percent, but brutal inflation increased to 25-26 percent on the move. This, translated into Hungarian, means that the situation of underpaid and overloaded workers in the social field will simply become disastrous. Mr State Secretary, if the increase in wages of workers in an unfair situation in the sector alone was not sufficient, I would like to raise two other reasons to support this. One: the press is full of outrageous pedophile cases and terrible child abuse stories. There should be no misunderstanding, I do not wish to speak against strict punishment, but I would like to focus on prevention and victim support, but this will not be possible without supporting and helping the workers of the area, the social sphere, and not helping us more than before. Another reason is that it has been known since the common sense of the peasants, or someone who does not have such a thing, let's say, since Nobel Prize winner economist James Heckman, he knows that the so-called return on investment rate for education is falling sharply in the case of children with multiple disadvantages, if the family background index is wrong. Secretary of State, this means that if the intervention was too late, and if only God's money was spent on education, they would not be able to compensate if these disadvantages were already accumulated. This would require those professionals in the social sphere who are fewer and fewer because they are leaving this area. So, as a representative of a responsible conservative party, I'm interested in what you want to do about it. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] To prevent the social disaster that will bury the people who work there. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2023-03-06-226	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2023-03-06-227	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You have also mentioned, among other things, the importance of protecting children even in the child protection system. Of course we agree on that, but when we were preparing for a child protection referendum a year ago, why were you talking about a campaign vote? Then why were people encouraged to write all kinds of comments on the ballot, but in no way to stand up for the Child Protection Act? [[Balázs Ander: Secretary of State, we have passed the law! I was the lead speaker on Jobbik!]] If they had come to their senses there, it might have been a little more credible, what they would have told you or you, when you have the opportunity as mayor, let's say, not to increase the wages of those working in education or culture, but to reduce it, since the better mayor Ózdon reduced the wages of the public education workers by 25 percent. [[Ander Balázs: You've bled out the municipalities!]] But you can see that in your parliamentary presence. A cycle ago, there were 26 of them, and now there's only eight of them. [[Ander Balázs: That's right.]] They're running out of credibility, so they're losing weight. Honourable Congressman, We have sought to have a social wage increase almost every year. In 14 the sectoral supplement was introduced, in 15 the additional supplement was introduced, then in 16 the combined sectoral supplement, in 18 the health supplement, in 19 the combined supplement was added, in 20 we also added the combined sectoral supplement, in 22 there was a 20 per cent increase in wages, and it was calculated roughly well: there was an average 11.8 per cent increase in wages this year. [[Ander Balázs: The 15 percent real wage reduction.]] So, if you look at how much the governments in front of us have raised in two cycles, 58 per cent; how much we have raised in three cycles, some more than three cycles, but the 190 per cent increase is much higher than the 58 per cent increase. There's not a cycle of difference between the two. This way we can achieve this year that the average social wage is expected to exceed HUF 400 000. I fully agree with you, honourable Member, that it should be raised as quickly and as far as possible. The government will do this, as it has more opportunities to do; you know, the situation that your party president is helping from Brussels is that only a few months away, and there will be no money to tell Márton Gyöngyösi at the beginning of the rule of law procedure, well, that does not help social workers. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] If you're working to get the resources we need out of here, you're not going to be in the social sphere. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-03-06-228	Thank you, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, István Szabadi, representative of Mi Hazank, would like to ask the Minister of the Interior a question, "Why are social workers not valued?" It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-03-06-229	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I could continue on this subject now, because before the elections, from 1 January 22, a 20% increase was promised to social workers, which, as it turned out, consisted of an increase in the minimum wage and the social sector's combined bonus. At the time, the workers felt cheated because the extra 20 percent was expected in addition to the minimum wage increase. And this year, as of 1 January, the salary increase is only a maximum increase in the minimum wage and a guaranteed minimum wage, which means a real decrease, even considering that the inflation rate in January was 25.7 per cent. Another remarkable thing is that the civil servant pay table was last modified in 2008 and therefore it is now almost entirely equivalent to the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage applicable in the post requiring secondary education. The Hungarian Movement agrees with the trade unions' demand for minimum wage, which should be defined at least as a percentage of the guaranteed minimum wage. The governments of the last thirty years have been apparently insensitive to social workers, while humiliatingly low salaries are being paid day by day. It is no wonder, therefore, that the sector is not attractive to young people at all and has a workforce shortage of approximately 30 percent, while society would not function without them. I ask you, Mr Secretary of State, for your answer on why the government, which boasts of its family-friendly policy, does not appreciate workers who work for our elderly and are family for those living in children's homes. For example, why doesn't the government spend 320 billion forints on wage-setting in the social sector to support the Chinese battery factory, which goes against the interests of the food-based national economy? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of our country.]]
u2023-03-06-230	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári, please.
u2023-03-06-231	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We also think that everyone who works in the social sphere deserves recognition. This is a trying task indeed, and a person needs a special skill and ability to help and to be able to help someone, even a child, who lives with a disability, be it an old man, so that it can really be a step towards a life of full value. This is why it is important for the state to maintain and develop this institutional system, not to reverse and not to reduce wages, as the left-wing government did in the social sphere in 2008-2009 with an 8 percent wage reduction when the 13th month allowance was taken away, but to increase it. When I watch last year, we spent 62.5 billion forints on the raise. This meant an average surplus of 51,000 forints for over 90,000 workers. If you look at where we started in 2010, the average salary in the social sector was HUF 137 thousand gross, compared to this, the average gross salary is now around HUF 400 thousand instead of HUF 137 thousand. Obviously, we know that it is still important for us to raise further, also because of what you said, so that it is attractive for those who have to choose their careers, and that those who work in the social sphere should keep them there, but this salary, which has increased by nearly three times, has been an important step forward. We hope that the sanctions policy, the war world that we could spend on raising wages in the social sphere, will be spent elsewhere, primarily on the accounts, as it is serious billions and tens of billions that we have spent on the surplus pensions of boarding institutions this winter. At the level of the country as a whole, HUF 4,000 billion, which we paid as a surplus to the overhead accounts to make people richer because the cost of extraction was not higher, but still [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We spent 4,000 billion forints more on this. There would be a lot of good places for this surplus, including social wages. We hope that next year we will have to pay less as a surcharge, a penalty premium, and then more as a social wage increase. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-03-06-232	Thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Sándor Berki, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Minister for Economic Development:. Why does the government abandon 1200 postal workers? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman. [[18.50]]
u2023-03-06-233	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. At the end of last year, many were deeply affected by the news of postal closures. In November, we learned that in 210 settlements, the government shuts down 366 post offices. As a country representative, I would like to stress the serious difficulties faced by postal closures in small settlements. In the county of Nógrád, mail was closed not only in cities as large as Salgótarján, Balassagyarmat and Pásztó, but also in Hugyagon and Ipolyvecene. Autumn postal closures also put the livelihood of some 740 workers at risk, but the post office still claimed that these workers were employed in other nearby post offices. As concerns about possible redundancies were not calmed down, Secretary of State János Fónagy replied to a written question in January that the need for a group reduction was reviewed and that it was not intended to be implemented. With such a history, the news has now come that the government is once again breaking a promise that 1,200 postal employees will be dismissed. That's 5 percent of all postal employees, which means they're putting every 20 employees on the street. But they don't appreciate the remaining ones much better than that. In addition to 25,7 percent inflation, you first offered the workers a 3 percent wage increase and then offered a 10 percent increase as a result of protests. Do you think it is appropriate to lay off 1,200 people in the current severe livelihood crisis? For workers who were promised a solid job just a little while ago? And what does the low wage increase of underpaid postal workers say about the Hungarian state? So my question is, why does the government let 1,200 postal workers down? Thank you for your reply.
u2023-03-06-234	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2023-03-06-235	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for your question, which gives me the opportunity to reiterate that, as a result of the sanctions in Brussels, a large company such as post office has been forced to take a serious step to preserve its stability. However, after rationalising the number of people you have mentioned, some 22 800 of your employees are guaranteed to make a living by a solid post office. In order to ensure the early location of workers affected by dismissal, we will examine all possibilities, provide information and, if necessary, assist workers with training programmes. We consider it a priority that the workers who are about to be laid off should not spend a day without work, i.e. from work to work. This is facilitated by the historic peak of employment in Hungary, the number of job vacancies is not close to 70,000, and the number of job seekers is at a record low level. Thus, there is a good chance that these postal workers will be able to find a place as soon as possible. The management of Magyar Posta starts negotiations with the operating council and examines other employment opportunities for employees. The new Postapartner programme will allow the workers concerned to continue to be employed with the contracted partners. According to the Hungarian Posta management and the trade union agreement, on 3 March all postal workers received a gross payment of HUF 50,000, a further payment of HUF 50,000 will be decided by 31 March if the wage agreement mentioned by you is not reached. By the way, the Postal Quarter Public Benefit Foundation is also helping with HUF 50 million [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] the most needy former mail families. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-06-236	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Máté Kanász-Nagy and Bernadett Bakos, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Minister of Construction and Transport: When will urban transport be included in the lease of the county and country? It's an address. Congresswoman Bakos Bernadett has the floor.
u2023-03-06-237	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, LMP has been proposing the introduction of a climate lease for almost a year. This is a cheap public transport pass of HUF 5 000 per month, which would apply nationwide to all public transport flights from Volánbusz to MÁV to local public transport. Air conditioner rentals provide financial help for people and help green destinations, as easy and cheap passes can change many people from car to public transport. The model of our proposal is the German nine-euro pass, which, in the words of László Palkovics, was a huge success. The German climate lease is a truly effective measure, saving 1.8 million tonnes of CO2 in three months. If we introduced a year-round air-conditioning lease in Hungary, we would reduce the country's CO2 emissions by 0.8 million tonnes, or 2 percent. However, for many months, the government has only examined the introduction of a climate lease, although the result has not been communicated. Then the petrol cap was brought up as an excuse, admitting that you don't care about people without a car because of poverty or conscious green life. At last, Viktor Orbán announced in his annual speech that a lease like a climate lease would be introduced for the county and for the country. These are far from perfect, but it must be acknowledged that they are a step forward in terms of mileage-based leases. However, it is a big problem that rents do not apply to local public transport, so those who commute must continue to buy two or three tickets. Last October, Dávid Vitézy, State Secretary for Transport, spoke about a zone-based tariff system, i.e. integrated urban suburban season tickets based on good Western examples. It is incomprehensible why this has now been thrown out, unless I would like to show their separation from Budapest again. Dear Secretary of State, When will urban transport be included in the county and country lease? Thank you in advance for your reply.
u2023-03-06-238	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State Bálint the Great. Here you go.
u2023-03-06-239	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and For the government, environmental protection and green policy are a priority area, as are the promotion of public transport. However, we not only talk about these things, but we also act. A good example of this is that Hungary recorded among the first legal commitment to become a climate neutral country by 2050. I am happy to say that since 2010, the Hungarian economy has been able to produce unit GDP by 24 percent less greenhouse gas emissions, while our industrial performance has increased by 1.5 times. And in per capita CO2 emissions, we have the ninth best value among the EU Member States. The government pays attention to Community transport. There is nothing more proof of this than the lease of the county and country to be introduced from 1 May. With the new construction, the monthly transport costs of families can be reduced by thousands or even tens of thousands of forints. The introduction of the two new types of rentals is a huge step forward for both the countryside and Budapest, as fewer cars will arrive from the agglomeration to the capital, and it is especially good for the countryside because they will receive more services for less money, and this will be much simpler. I would like to mention that, fortunately, this is not a climate lease, because the climate lease you mentioned is now 49 euros. So, if that were the case, we'd have to pay the tenants nearly twice as much money as this will be in the case of the county lease. I would also like to say that these new leases and the two new lease types do not cancel any previous discounts, and this is a new one, I think, which gives future users a better opportunity than ever before. And not to avoid your question, honourable Member, as I have already had the opportunity to talk about today, we can extend this to the municipalities of the local authorities, in their administrative area, when the municipalities join, because, as I have said here today, community transport is a municipal task, and we welcome the local governments to join it, and we welcome the mayor and the capital in this, of course. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-06-240	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mária Kállai, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Construction and Transport:. Where is the preparation process of the Tisza Bridge on Csáklya Road in Szolnok and the connecting road to Szandaszőlőst? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2023-03-06-241	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Anyone who knows Szolnok knows exactly how long the city of Szolnok has been struggling with many, many congestions caused by increasing motor traffic. In particular, in a place that justifies the construction of a road bypassing Szandaszőlőst and a new bridge across the Tisza, the so-called Háklya út bridge, which helps not only the city's transport, of course, but also the Szolnok car traffic from the southern part of the country. [[19.00]] This development goes far beyond Szolnok, as the decline or balance of traffic in Eastern Hungary can be decisive, which can be seen with this bypass. If we rank the social needs of the Szolnok, this is one of the most important social needs. That is why we turned to the government with Mayor Ferenc Szalay, and the decision was made, because during the implementation of the road programme, the government appointed the opportunity to begin the preparatory work of this road complex and the bridge itself, which we thank the government this time, because it provided HUF 1 billion 670 million for the preparation. In this context, the Ministry of Innovation and Technology started preparing a study plan, an environmental impact assessment, an environmental permit, and a permit plan, as well as the purchase of building permits. The construction of a new Tisza Bridge and the transformation of the road system itself obviously contribute to the economic development of a city, its quality of life and its lifestyle, and it affects the entire country, not just for cars approaching us from the south. We think that it is very important to improve itself, optimise deadlines and complete the preparatory procedure as soon as possible. Therefore, I ask with respect and respect: where is the preparation process of the Tisza Bridge on Szolnok Csáklya Road and the road connecting with it, bypassing Szandaszőlőst? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-06-242	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State Bálint the Great. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2023-03-06-243	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, allow me to start by saying that both our wallet and the Government of Hungary are particularly important in the development of transport, whether it be public transport or road network and infrastructure development. The trail to be planned includes a new roundabout node, a lane extension on a longer road section, and a walking and cycling approach to Tiszaliget and the shopping malls in the Upper Shanda meadow is also ensured. I am currently able to inform Congresswoman that the environmental permit for the selected track was issued in April of last year, the building permit procedures have been completed, national and local roads and bridges have been issued by the authorities. The design contract still requires the preparation and endorsement of the expropriation plans, which are planned to be completed in the second quarter of this year. Unfortunately, the difficulties caused by the war in our neighbourhood and the failed sanctions policy have also caused economic difficulties, as we can see and experience, and unfortunately, no resources are currently available for further preparation and execution tasks. However, I can assure both the honourable Member and the Szolnok that, as soon as it is possible to ease the economic situation, the government will review it and, once adequate resources are made available, the government will decide on the implementation of the project and its further implementation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-06-244	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László Szászfalvi, representative of KDNP, wishes to ask the Minister of Interior a question: "How long will Hungary be able to cope with the increasing migratory pressure? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2023-03-06-245	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Migration pressures are increasing worldwide. In the last two months alone, the Hungarian authorities have captured more than 15,000 border offenders and arrested 160 smugglers. Migration activity continues on the Balkan and maritime routes. In the forests near the border, there are several smaller or larger illegal camps, but many do not go into the camps, but create their own migrant farm. They expropriate and destroy the environment and buildings. Iranian, Iraqi, Pakistani, Afghan and Syrian criminal groups are fighting each other, often resulting in armed conflicts, wounded and dead among them. The residents living near the Serbian border are afraid because of the increased number of burglaries and thefts. Continuous police raids do not deter illegal migrants from reaching the EU country they are targeting through Serbia. Dear Secretary of State, Today, even in Brussels, more and more people see that the EU's external borders can only be protected by border seals. The need to strengthen the Schengen borders would be all the more necessary, because the European Union's return-based policy is practically not working. The Hungarian border protection costs of HUF 650 billion have significantly burdened and burdened the country, despite which, in an outrageous way, Brussels has still made almost no contribution to these extraordinary expenses and costs. Dear Secretary of State, Hungary must continue its consistent political action on illegal migration. The extension of the crisis was a key decision to effectively guard the fence at the border by using appropriate forces and means to prevent migrants from crossing. On this basis, I ask Mr Secretary of State: how long can Hungary continue to fight the ever-increasing migratory pressure? [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-06-246	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2023-03-06-247	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Since 2015, there have been two strong positions on migration management. One of the Hungarian positions, which says that Europe's borders must be protected, should only be allowed into the territory of the European Union who Europe needs or who is really fleeing a war situation, such as now, who are fleeing Ukraine. On the contrary, the position of the Union is that everyone must be allowed in, the procedure must be conducted within the territory of the Union, and those who are entitled may remain who are not entitled to go back. They said that since we conducted this procedure in the transit zone, it was inhumane because we would not allow them into the territory of the Union; they said that they were closed, even though they were not closed at all, because they were free to leave south, east and west, but only to the north, they could not leave towards the European Union. But they said it was not acceptable, that we were taken to the European Court of Justice, and the rest, and the rest, everyone knows these cases. But let us see that the Union's own policy, namely to let everyone in, and then decide who to stay and who to go back to, is how effective the Union is, according to its own Eurostat statement. Let's watch West Africa. We managed to get 10 percent of the expelled people out, and 90 percent stayed, and they're staying here illegally. North Africa Tunisia, Algeria, Morocco - the EU has shown that 7 percent of negative decisions have been implemented, in Hungarian, out of 100 people who have been told that there is no title to stay in the EU, seven have been returned to the country of origin and 93 have disappeared and remain illegally in the territory of the Union. Iraq is slightly higher, where 15 percent of the EU's own decisions have been implemented. Bangladesh and Pakistan, if I look at South Asia, are 11 percent, so 89 percent of their own decisions have not been implemented, 11 percent, yes. On the basis of these figures, the Union itself says in black and white that what it has been carrying for eight years, and for which Hungary is constantly under attack, it was actually a non-functioning vision for them, but in ours we can talk about a functioning border protection, since it has been able to prevent 270 thousand illegal border crossings in the last year, with almost a Hungarian cost, the EU accounted for 1.5 percent of these costs. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It is now clear that it is only the Hungarian road that leads to it. We are just waiting for those talking about solidarity to start financing the Hungarian costs in border protection. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-06-248	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Kálmán Olga, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance:. Why? It's an address. On behalf of Prime Minister István Nagy, Minister for Economic Development, who is responsible and competent according to the subject, will answer the question. By answering this question, Mr István Nagy, Minister for Economic Development, Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary János Fónagy wishes to answer his question. You have the floor.
u2023-03-06-249	It's okay. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, You're trying to solve a logical magic trick every day. Europe's highest inflation is raging in Hungary, while people are taking home one of Europe's lowest salaries. Meanwhile, not only Western countries, but also our eastern neighbour, Romania, have preceded us in the size of average salaries, while inflation is much lower there. Romania, we also remember that it was much poorer and more tortured to get out of the captivity of Communism than Hungary, and then the two countries became members of the European Union, where they received EU aid under the same conditions in the same international economic environment. [[19.10]] Even in our nightmares at the time, we didn't think that instead of Austria, we would have to compete with the economic indicators of Romania, which was often underestimated, even though after the last 13 years of the Orbán government, the situation was exactly the same: Hungary doesn't have access to EU funds while Romania has access to it. The highest price of food in Europe is due to inflation in Orbán, while the Romanian average wage and minimum wage are higher than the Hungarian. These are the raw facts that your sanctioned lies simply cannot compete with. These are the signs of your total economic policy failure. That is why we say that the shadow government remains Hungary's only hope of bringing EU money home; we set the target date for the introduction of the euro and restore international confidence in the Hungarian economy. So I ask Mr Secretary of State why Romania has preceded us and why does it finally fail to admit that your 13-year government is the reason why Hungarian people have to live on Europe's lowest salaries for the greatest inflation in Europe? Thank you. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2023-03-06-250	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2023-03-06-251	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Instead of the flares, let's see the numbers. The gross amount of the minimum wage has increased by 16 percent from 1 January to 232 thousand forints. This is more than three times more than 73 500 HUF in 2010. From the same date, the guaranteed minimum wage increased by 14 percent to 296 400 HUF. This is the fourth highest growth for the whole European Union. Thus, the minimum wage is now higher than the average wage for left-wing governance. The Hungarian guaranteed wage minimum of 739 euros is close to the Polish minimum wage of the V4 countries, ahead of the Czech and Slovak countries. You have repeatedly drawn attention to Romania. In Romania, some 1.8 million people, more than a quarter of the workers, earn the minimum wage, whereas in our country 223,000 people get the same, which is less than 5 percent of the number of employees. [[Kálmán Olga: But how much is it that you earn?]] In parallel with the minimum wage, higher-grade wages increased steadily, reaching 155 per cent from 2010 to 22nd, while net average earnings increased by nearly 160 per cent without taking into account family benefits. This left-wing government represented 13,8 percent in eight years. Every year in the last ten years, the value of the earnings has also increased. In 22 of the V4 countries, real earnings grew in Hungary alone, and in the other countries there was a decline. [[Kálmán Olga: And inflation?]] I'll answer that in detail on your next question, if you'll allow me. Thank you very much. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-03-06-252	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Róbert Dudás, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question: When will the small settlement routes be put ahead of the Fidesz interests? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-03-06-253	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to ask you a very simple question: who decides on the renewal of the roads and their order? I have an opinion on this, and even information in some cases, but at the same time it is very important for locals and local leaders to know who to turn to in the future: road managers or perhaps politics. If someone actually walks the settlements, wanders the countryside, then he sees how disastrous the situation is with regard to certain rural sections of the road. You can't see this from the ivory tower. A lot of people are looking forward to renovation, because they have to go through catastrophic roads every day, and they see that, by the way, there is always money for their own needs. Just to make it clear: for decades, it has been planned to make the road linking the Bátony tere with Ózd four lanes, and now we do not even know if it has been renovated; the locals have been waiting for thousands of people to travel these roads every day. The inhabitants of Mátraballa have been waiting for more than a decade, and everyone else who passes through the road network to make the road not a wheelbreaker, but to finally pass, but to no avail. The line could continue for a long time, and I will continue to do so in my next speeches. What I do not understand, however, is that there are sections that have an advantage over high-speed roads. And what am I thinking? For example, it is a perfect road to a small settlement of less than a hundred people, which the inhabitants obviously deserve perfectly, but, according to the locals' story, the road was not necessarily built for the benefit of the residents, but rather for their own interests. There are some government-led settlements where the mayor has become quite famous in recent years because of various cases, I will also talk more about it, which will receive 140 million forints on the road. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] There's no money for road renovation, and there's thousands of people running around every day. Who should the locals turn to, Mr. Secretary? [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2023-03-06-254	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State Balázs Fürjes.
u2023-03-06-255	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In addition to the part of his speech when he spoke in riddles and announced as a trailer that he would speak and then speak, but he did not say anything concrete, his only question is who to turn to; of course, to the elected municipalities and the elected Members of Parliament, there is democracy in Hungary, and it was the last time they decided in April. In most constituencies, the pro-government representative was strengthened in rural areas and, with two exceptions, the governing parties were strengthened in all rural constituencys. Perhaps in the area where you are interested, the candidate for the Fidesz-KDNP has won the election for the second time. Have confidence in elected representatives, local government leaders. Thank you very much for the comment, because it is possible to tell you what has been done, and I cannot tell you what has been done in recent years in the context of road renovation, because the two minutes would be short. As part of the Hungarian village programme, since 2019 we have fixed 3,000 kilometres of roads, mainly for a faster, safer approach to small settlements. The peak was in 2021, then we managed to renovate more than 1250 kilometres, mainly for small settlements. Since 2010, we have been able to renovate a total of 8,000 kilometres of roads in the countryside; this can be seen from there as well, and from the government centre in Budapest, which you referred to as an ivory tower. In 2022 we were able to renovate 960 kilometers of roads. Magyar Utút Zrt. its machinery and equipment parks have expanded to tens of billions of HUF in order to carry out the reservations. And the only reason I'm forced to stop here is because the time is up. If you ask specific questions, you will be given specific answers in any case. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-03-06-256	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Today's last question, Mr Lajos Mészáros, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister for Economic Development:. What is the idea of the long-term operation of Dunaferr? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-03-06-257	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, As a Member of the Parliament of Dunaújváros and its region, the stability of the operation of Dunaferr, and especially the situation of the employees of the company are very important to me. We know that in 2004 the Gyurcsány government privatized the company group. Unfortunately, the investments and improvements that could have ensured the long-term operation of the company in the context of changing market conditions have not taken place since then. In the field of environmental protection, too, Dunaferr faces serious delays and outdated technology in the 21st century. The challenges of the century. We know that Dunaferr is an offshore company registered in Cyprus; the Russian-Ukrainian ownership structure was in conflict; the management operated with an unclear ownership mandate. [[19.20]] The company hasn't published a balance sheet report in years, nor have they been able to hold a valid general meeting due to the differences in ownership. In this situation, they were struck by the Russian-Ukrainian war and the energy price explosion and the economic consequences of the failed sanctions in Brussels. As a result, and due to previous management errors, nearly HUF 500 billion of debt was accumulated. Due to the unpaid debt, the loss of electricity supply threatened last December, which could have led to an industrial disaster. The Government of Hungary intervened at the same time: it ordered the service provider to supply the power by decree, and also made the accelerated winding-up procedure possible during which time it was possible to operate. The first steps of the liquidator included the dismissal of the former management and the initiation of negotiations with the new owners. Of these, Liberty Steel prefinanced the raw material needed to save stability worth about HUF 10 billion, and the government gave a guarantee worth HUF 10 billion. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] the half-yearly payment of workers' wages. I ask you, Mr Secretary of State: what long-term strategic ideas do the wallet and the government have for steel production in Hungary, and what are their ideas for the long-term operation of Dunaferr? Thank you very much for your patience.
u2023-03-06-258	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2023-03-06-259	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Indeed, Dunaferrt, Hungary's last fully vertical metallurgical plant, was destroyed by the former owner, CEO and finally by the sanctions in Brussels. The government couldn't stand by and watch this, so we set up a defense committee, ordered a liquidator to the company, and started consolidating the company. As a first step, we provided the necessary energy for operation and secured the six-month wages of the employees of Dunaferr from the Bér Guarantee Fund for some HUF 16 billion. Your question was about long-term goals. In the short term, Dunaferr is responsible for meeting the needs of the domestic steel industry and the demand for steel products. The main aim is also to maintain existing domestic expertise and production capacity continuously, in order to ensure that these bases are not lost and technological progress can be ensured. The long-term goals are very brief. With the green transformation of the domestic steel industry, the hydrogen industry, is one of the most important new domestic industries. Using electric furnaces, we want domestic steel waste at home, we intend to use it as one of the most important goals, we transform it into steel products, which have much more added value than a simple export of steel scrap. Finally, but not least by using the amount of steel waste, the ecological footprint of the domestic economy will be significantly reduced, thus ensuring the long-term operation of the domestic steel industry, including Dunaferr. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2023-03-06-260	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We are now at the end of the debate on today's agenda, and now we are going to have speeches after the agenda. I give the floor to Congressman János Bencze, from the Jobbik Group, with the title "Glamour with the Ukrainian grain." You have the floor.
u2023-03-06-261	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, What happens to Ukrainian grain is literally a hoax. As early as the autumn, we have indicated that there is a problem with Ukrainian grain imports, cereals that flow into the country, eyes that are far from in line with EU standards and will cause problems on the market. Then I got the reassuring answer in writing, and I got the answer that there is nothing wrong here, and then the Hungarian authorities will come and fix it. Well, I mean, they didn't solve anything. Fair Hungarian farming families are in huge trouble all over the country. There are countless families, and I don't mean families close to the government that can be named, who stand on our feet, but those who farm with honor, who live from 50, 30, 70, 100 hectares of land, who pay storage and storage fees for their own crops, can't sell them at a fair price, so that Ukrainian grain spills into the country, quoting truck drivers, or someone who's come across the garbage themselves. Today, I received a Messenger message describing one of the transport drivers carrying musty corn. I ask you, where are the authorities? But not just the authorities, we have chambers! You were able to punish the Medical Chamber for standing up for the doctors. That means that the chambers, such as the Chamber of Agriculture, who do not stand up for farmers, will be rewarded by you. Well, I'm asking you, what do farmers pay the bar fee for if I haven't seen one serious, sound display from the Chamber of Agriculture in the past? And the farmers I was talking to didn't see anything from them either. What should Hungarian farmers do now? They had droughts on their hands last year. What did they get instead of drought damages? You can take out a loan. You know that if a bad year comes after another bad year, credit is murder, suicide. What about their land? Who are applying for the land of Hungarian farmers? Credit in their necks, and again, high quality Hungarian cereals cannot be sold at a fair price. Instead, what comes from Ukraine? They are cereals that are treated with chemicals that have been banned in this country for fifty years, but most of them are banned throughout the European Union because they leave residues that are simply dangerous to human creation, which is why they have been banned. You'll come with me if I file it in writing, I'll get the answer that, of course, it's all right, there's an investigation. In the country in which Hungary is per minute, and which is characterized by NER corruption, who is a member of NER, he will receive paper on whatever it is. And what happens to this grain? He won't go west, I asked about grain merchants, he won't go south, he'll stay in the country. Our good quality grain goes out. And everyone thinks: what is not suitable for the production of methanol can not be processed, it has such a poor quality, it is either fed as cheap grain to the cattle, which we will eat thanks to NER, or it can be processed as bread cereals, using various sources. I'll ask you one more time: what's the agricultural chamber for? The farming community would expect them to really stand up for the people who pay membership fees. And at least one example is to stand up for French farmers when they stand up for themselves. It should be noted that Hungarian soil is the foundation of our existence in Hungary. If we take it away from farmers, if we destroy it, if we give it to the oligarchs, then there will be no basis for existence, no Hungarian countryside. A Hungarian farmer, a typical, difficult, good-talented gentleman, told me one thing: listen, John, there will be peace in Ukraine, in Ukraine a lot of the land is in the hands of American and Chinese interests, they will once produce, and if this dumping remains, we are ruined, not only by me, but also by NER farmers. So in Hungary, agriculture is safe to say and is in danger from several directions. No one stands up for them, especially our government, but with Himihumi measures. And yes, at your two-thirds, the ball bounces! The opposition can do nothing, neither our right nor our opportunity against the two thirds. I ask you, if you really want to stand up for the interests of Hungary, if the Hungarian countryside is really important, then do so and take stone-hard steps to control the traders who have carried garbage from grain or honey throughout the country since September. Thank you. [[Ander Balázs applauds.]]
u2023-03-06-262	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Ander Balázs, who has also applied for a post-scheduled speech:. Stories about the countryside, or for two billion, with the title of ruin and the privatized spa. Here you go.
u2023-03-06-263	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As a national citizen, I say that Hungarian people should not be a subject, but a citizen in their country. It should be this way in 2023, in the middle of Europe. But if they're building a new feudal system, unfortunately, we're facing a radical opposite. Sometimes they try to build something other than new feudalism, such as a school in the South Somogy doll. Then I'm going to go into detail. This whole project was set up which, sometime in 2016, came out of someone's head as if it were financed with their own money, not with the Hungarian taxpayers' money. [[19.30]] In 2019 the foundation stone was laid for this institution. It should have started teaching in September 2020, but this is the third academic year that teachers and students are forced to survive in all kinds of emergency classrooms. One billion HUF 88 million was the sum that was awarded in the first round. Then, when this project looked like it was going to fail, they made 734 million HUF in the end of last year's election campaign, because the story became very uncomfortable, didn't it? In Parliament's speech, during a ministerial hearing, in the form of seven written questions, I turned to Péter Polt, which, therefore, went through the National Bureau of Investigation and I tried to find out the NAV Crime Directorate how much they had spent on this shameful and shameful project. I also turned to the competent district with a public request for data. From there came this answer, and I quote: "I reject your request to communicate the size of the amount paid so far. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Well, after that, I was forced to go to the Integrity Authority, see if there's anything in this organization, or just some sort of bocret on the hat of transparency, transparency. I am saying that it is the money of the Hungarian people, so not because I, as a Member of Parliament, write this whole far-fetched story, but if any local citizen, Aunt Mary, or Uncle Jozsi, were to ask how much was paid out of the entire heap of 2 billion forints, then it would be a dog's duty to give a normal answer to that. Unfortunately, it hasn't happened to this day. By the way, 15 minutes ago, the area's individual parliamentary representative, pro-government representative, was still here, and I am very sorry that you left, along with Mr. State Secretary. The other story is also from South Somogy. I think we all have a story about every settlement from the time of the change of method, a story where a rude council president, president of the Council, sticky-handed Stahanovist, leading theft comrade put his sticky paws on something during the privatisation period, he cut himself out of the nation's property. The recipe was for this, the recipe for the privatization around the post-communist regime change: let the state rot, then when it happened, and, say, with cheap money, it became one of theirs, then there will be state support, obviously from the taxes of Hungarian people. It's a spa story. If we had treasure in South Somogy, it would be the thermal water under our feet. However, I have often brought up the story of Bábócsa, when that world champion water supply is released into the Rinya Creek; Nagyatád's bath Calvary has been on the table of the Hungarian Tourism Agency for years, and they received money before the election, and then after the election, because perhaps things didn't turn out the way NER had imagined, it was withdrawn. And here's the story of Csokonyavisonta. The last piece of the village nymphus would be the spa that a Fidesz municipal representative's family company has now acquired. We didn't even get an answer as to how the cheap-money bath development was going to come about. A real investment is being made here, with its own money, or, after they have bought the village's former treasure cheaply, they will also want it to flourish with state money, so to speak. If this is the case, we are dealing again with a stinking privatisation story; if the former version is the case, then I wish you good luck. Thank you for your attention.
u2023-03-06-264	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mária Kállai, representative of Fidesz, also applied for a post-meeting speech on the implementation of the Szolnok Intelligent Urban Energy Model, entitled Szolnok. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2023-03-06-265	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr President, I would like to account for an exemplary investment. The project that the E.ON Hungária Group and the municipality of Szolnok County have jointly carried out is unique at national level. An intelligent, energy-efficient urban energy model has been created in the capital of the Tisza, which supports a part of the city's energy needs in a sustainable way and contributes to achieving the city's climate targets as quickly as possible. The Szolnok Intelligent Urban Energy Model, or, as we call it briefly, the HEART project, which is truly kind to our hearts, I am convinced that it is the way of the future. As Minister Csaba Lantos said, the name is already appropriate, and overall, the investment is truly exemplary. The country's first energy community has been established in Szolnok, which provides a solution with optimized uses and local solutions. The investment of nearly HUF 1.2 billion focuses on saving energy, all of its forints are useful, a real joint effort between the city and the E.ON Hungária Group. But we can ask what it contains. In total, nine small power plants of household size were built in six locations in the institutions maintained by the municipality. The project also created a so-called carport with solar panels for e-cars with several high-speed chargers and high-performance lightning chargers. In the framework of the cooperation, the municipal institutions also include nursery schools, kindergartens and health institutions. In addition to these power plants, there has been heating modernisation, boiler replacements, all of which serve environmental protection. It should be said that, thanks to the development, these institutions can use the energy produced and saved in a coordinated manner and for their own needs. This will, of course, significantly reduce energy costs and significantly reduce energy consumption. I think that this cooperation is based on only mutual benefits for everyone. In addition to the local government public service facilities, housing houses have been renewed and the housing houses of young people have been renewed. Overall, some 70 families could have actually been enriched with thermal insulation, as well as so-called parking cars, AC and DC chargers were built on this housing site. It is practically important that not only the Szolnok, but also the visitors to Szolnok, have heard the future of electric cars in Parliament several times today. Of course, energy renovation is also very important in a residential house, contributing to the incomes of families, not to mention conscious management of energy, of course. This investment is also very important in such a way that it can also represent a very serious awareness for residents. Thank you to the E.ON Group, and thank you for helping the city with such energy technologies, and this will really bring us closer to climate protection goals. It is very important to have environmental awareness, and it is very important that the residential communities, the city and businesses brought these local, innovative energy solutions together. Obviously, this is also a major step in reducing energy dependence and achieving energy sovereignty. Sustainability is now the horizontal goal of all our development in Szolnok County, Szolnok County. This approach also guides the city, along with Mayor Ferenc Szalay and the city leadership, when the SZIVEM project is being brought to life. In addition to saving, conscious energy use, it is a special pleasure that it is based on the cooperation of entrepreneurs and individuals. Thank you and thanks to the E.ON Group for bringing this together, supporting this programme, and congratulations to Szolnok on thinking that this energy efficiency was already in the focus when this energy crisis was not yet visible in the country. The project has shown that we are able to seize all the tools, opportunities for rational farming, cooperation, mutuality based on common benefits, always the best calling word in competition. I would also like to say that the cooperation of the energy company and Szolnok is now considered traditional. This work started in 2019, but before that in 2017. As a result, the Szolnok Energy Efficiency and Energy Community model earned the award for a sustainable future in the category of climate protection and adaptation in 2022. What can I wish for? As many responsible local projects as possible strengthen our community! Thank you very much.
u2023-03-06-266	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr.Péter Jakab also applied for a speech after the agenda, independent:.Truth for the Hungarians. I give you the floor. [[19.40]]
u2023-03-06-267	Thank you for the floor. Fellow Members, do you know what the biggest problem here is? It's that everything in this country is based on lies. You lie to people and expect the same to happen to people. We lie that there are enough teachers; we lie that there are enough doctors, there are enough policemen; we lie that Hungary is going forward, not back. We lie that the West is sinking, and we've never lived so well. Meanwhile, everything's crashing: health, education, law enforcement, wages, pensions, everything. But that, of course, doesn't matter to you. The only thing that matters to you here is that everything on paper is fine, that everything is well-documented. And there it is. Look, fellow Members, in this country, the average salary on paper is over half a million forints! Here, in reality, you starve to death. Colleagues, that's enough lying. I've had enough of you lying that we're the best paying people in the world, while, in reality, Slovaks and Romanians make better money than we do! I've had enough of them lying about raising pensions while, in reality, the increase takes away multiples of the pension increase! Enough of the fact that Hungarian families are being lied about receiving 181,000 forints a month from you, while in reality you get nothing, nothing in the world! They don't want much. No one here wants much, fellow Members, the Hungarian man is not ambitious, everyone here wants only what he deserves, because it is fair. Those who do quality work should receive a high-quality salary, because it's fair! Anyone who has worked his life with honor for this country should get a decent pension because it's fair! Anyone who pays the social security with honor should receive proper medical care, because it's only fair! And whoever robs the people will be put in handcuffs, because it's only fair! That's all we want, nothing more, a fair Hungary, where the thief doesn't manage, but the worker, where not only the person who pays more, but also the person who can't pay more. We want a fair country where they don't just take away people's private pension savings, where they don't take away their business, their apartment, their life. No! This is what the People's Party Movement wants: justice for the Hungarians. And the truth begins there, the liars, or you, will be thrown out of Parliament, but one by one. That is precisely why we demand it, which is why we are initiating a parliament elected with lies to disband itself and to have a new democratic election in Hungary, now in the possession of the truth. Let's not wait until 2026. Colleagues who don't support this are on the side of liars. Anyone who doesn't support this as an opposition will take Fidesz's side against the people. Make up your minds, fellow Members, which side you're on. The Fidesz party or the party of the people? One thing is certain: members of the People's Party Movement and their activists will be out in the streets, in the squares in the coming period, and we will ask the Hungarian people how they want to pay you for this performance until 2026 or would rather end the insanity that we call Fidesz. Let the government lose, let the people win, justice for the Hungarians! [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-03-06-268	Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP Balázs Barkóczi, DK Group, applied. You have the floor.
u2023-03-06-269	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, When, in December 2022, the XV. district created the local government budget for 2023 and established an operating budget to ensure the security of municipal institutions and services. Angéla Cserdiné Németh, the DK mayor of the district, already stressed: in the full knowledge of the exact figures, all the revenue of the municipality, the municipality will also provide local government support to the civil society organisations, associations and sports organisations of the district in 2023, the additional costs of increased catering due to inflation, the additional resources necessary for the holding of residential events, the protection of the reconstruction of district road renovations, parking constructions, pedestrian crossings, complex green surfaces and the coverage of the renovation of public education institutions. On 25 January, then, with the adoption of the Decree of the Metropolitan Assembly on the division of business tax revenues in 2023, the resolution of the XV. It also opened the way for the district to include business tax revenues in the budget and thus to create a new budgetary concept. I mean, the 15th. The DK leadership of the district kept his word. It did so despite the fact that the systematic absorption of resources from the local government sector continued this year, as it has been clear in recent years that the Fidesz government is redistributing public funds to each district and municipality on a political basis, without any traceable and clear criteria. However, this does not teach or keep the mayor or the body of representatives on a short leash by the Orbán system, but punishes the people living in the district, hitting on them with short-term and very transparent party political interests. In the streets to be renovated, there are both pro-government and opposition voters. Parks in need of care and the results of district development, the services of our social institutions are equally welcome by everyone. There is no left- and right-wing road renovation, no left- and right-wing nursery maintenance or parking, no left- or right-hand healthcare. Every source, every forint taken from the municipality, is taken from the people living in Rákospalota, Pestújhely and Újpalota, the community of the district. They are deprived of living and more comfortable everyday life in exchange for their paid tax dollars. For a decade now, the government communication machine financed by public money billions and the vastly expanded pro-state propaganda are making a more clear and transparent flood of lies, while the wealth scattered to lie, incitement and enemy imagery, all of which we have paid for, only the courtkeeping, the party bourgeoisie called national and the lucky selections of the lackey media, while all this public money could have been built here a better and fairer, more solidarityable and more livable Hungary over the past 13 years. Instead of hate campaigns and sharing, we are the 15th. Social security and solidarity will continue to be strengthened in the district. Appreciating and cultivating the traditions of the district, we build a diverse, strong and cohesive community by maintaining and improving the quality of our wide range of social and health care systems. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you here for all the XV. for their thorough and high-quality professional work, guaranteeing the safe and balanced and responsible functioning of the district, the heads and employees of the department of the economy and the institutions and companies of the municipality. And I'll tell them from here: as long as the government can continue to destroy on a political basis, we are committed to the 15th century. In the district, we look after everyone now as we will in the future. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-03-06-270	Thank you. Dear Parliament, At the same time, Mrs Andrea Hegedüs, DK Group, asked to speak after the agenda: the castle of Diósgyőr is only a shadow of itself! It's an address. You have the floor.
u2023-03-06-271	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear House, For a reason, the castle of Diósgyőr is called the castle of queens, because for a hundred years, for exactly 102 years, it was owned by the wives of rulers. Who owns it today? Because the Miskolcs certainly don't. Once the castle was life itself, it gave place to all the events, where the crowds were fluttering, where high-quality events were worth each other, love was born, friendships were made, laughter, cheerfulness, a sea of beautiful memories, the high-rise of capital entertainment and culture. What's going on? I quote the opinions of four city dwellers. We haven't been able to set foot in four years because of the renovations, instead we can go round the cranes and go to the field of concrete jungle tournaments. The castle was patina and atmosphere of the castle. It was a wonderful and romantic location because the iron teeth of time left a mark on it. The new walls made him lifeless. The concerts are gone, the festivals are gone. I don't know whose dream I'm seeing come true, but it seems more and more like a nightmare to me. What kind of government is it that, at the expense of the quality of life, wants to strengthen its position by making senseless visual investments? There will never be a real tourist attraction, because it lacks the attraction that glorious historical events of the past can give. This is a living castle, not a dead ruin, so the challenges of today must also be met. It must be preserved, restored in its original form, but what is happening to the castle now is as if someone in the Hungarian State People's Ensemble is wearing red sneakers, torn jeans and reverse baseball caps. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, [[19.50]] Thus, the investment in this form is seen positively by few. What should I call our historical lives, our values? Are you waiting for a nutgy? The castle of queens? Or the Disney Castle? as the Miskolcs mock the once attractive, romantic castle in its ruins. Our historical heritage has undergone architectural plastic surgery, which is not enough to make the original unrecognizable, but they can't even finish it because of the spoiled, careless design work. The problem is that two billion HUF is still missing to correct static errors. Today, we hear nothing encouraging or even nothing from the former Commissioner of the Government responsible for the Castle of Diósgyőr, a Member of Parliament. We see, however, that responsibility is shaken and that there is no information. The construction company stopped investing on 27 February, even though the four towers are still unconfirmed. In the development of the castle, the state's responsibility and authority are enormous. I ask the pro-government and Fidesz representatives of Miskolc, it is true that they are not here, János Kiss, Katalin Csöbör and Zsolt Kovács, you know János Lázár Minister of Construction and Investment. 'Cause if you are, walk up to him for the sake of our city. If you can't do that, I'll do it to reboot the machines working on the castle. The castle towers don't deserve to lie in bed as the dying ones left to their fate. Miskolc insists on his historic heritage and wants to cross the threshold of the castle as soon as possible. Last week, I said that MIVÍZ belongs to the Miskolcs, now I declare on behalf of the city dwellers that we will not let the castle be destroyed. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2023-03-06-272	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP László Varju, DK Group has applied for a post- Agenda address:. What is happening in Újpesten? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2023-03-06-273	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Újpest is a special place with special people, our home and thus the center of the world for us. It is important for us to know the past, to know the present and to plan the future. Fortunately, I can often shoot the Újpest Place History Notifications, including a recollection of stories and memories that look back 100 years, such as the recovery of Újpest's independence. Újpest was once the proud manufacturing world, but the change in recent decades has touched us as well. New opportunities and challenges have emerged in the lives of businesses and the population, but everyone has become important and needs a greener and more livable environment. In the present, building on a common past, the municipality has been working for years to build a greener, more livable world in the Újpest part of Budapest, along with a well-built concept, in cooperation with the population. As surprising as it may be, we love this green with a purple heart. A historic moment in the life of Újpest, I might say, the beginning of the implementation of the new main square park, which can also determine the future for decades with the atmosphere of St. Stephen's Square, as it has permanently transformed our main square in 2010 into one of the most beautiful main squares in the capital, and since then has made Szent István Square a community place for cultural events in our city. But there is also room for improvement. Therefore, as a continuation of development, on 27 February a huge green investment started. I hope that the main square park with its many greens, flowers, trees, promenades, water toys and giant sandbox will also please the Újpest people. In view of the sight plans, I am sure that the new green park will be harmoniously co-existing and living with the covered main square, the market with the UP event center, which makes our city, Újpest's heart truly unicable, because Újpest is our city, our home. The capital is IV. I can tell you about many more green initiatives in the district of 2022, and we continued and started these in the framework of the Green Újpest programme, including the development of a national lavender park, indoor green walls, solar field lamps and massive tree planting, and since last year, the public has been able to use rainwater collectors, composting boxes, and the institutions have been helped by idea owners with high beds. In 2020, the municipality of Újpest established the first wildflower bed in Sandbhorn Park, followed by several others. In 2021 the programme was extended to seven locations and in 2022 to another location. Next to last year's winter street distribution lane, the Szőöndös promenade, Megyeri út, Görgey road, Bratislava road, Szigeti József street, the lavender field near the SZTK was the place where the flower beds were admired. Last May, Dr. Norbert Trippon, on the basis of a proposal from Deputy Mayor, opened an 1124 sq m concrete that had previously become redundant, 40 centimeters thick, in the vicinity of the University of Karoli, in an old raging place, where the second community tank was created shortly later in Newpesten. After the construction work, 40 lucky Újpests were able to take possession of the 3 square meters floor bed. The success of the initiative has been well demonstrated by the fact that there has been a multiple over-subsidisation of large beds among residents. Thus, it is not surprising that this year the construction of our third community tanker in Bercsényi Street has also begun, where 18 6 square meters of beds will be built in a community garden of 933 square meters. It's springtime, so there's more rainwater collectors and compost boxes. Last summer, this earlier initiative was a huge success. So it is clear that Újpest is building, beautifully, developing. And I will continue to do everything in my power to keep this going, and I will do everything in my power to help the municipality. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2023-03-06-274	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP Gergely Arató, DK Group, came forward: the ambulance arrived in 50 minutes with the title "A street accident." You have the floor.
u2023-03-06-275	Thank you very much. Dear House, In my constituency, on February 7th, there was an accident, a citizen tripped on the road, fell and couldn't stand up. Accomplices called an ambulance, and then they waited. And then they waited and waited, and they were still waiting. Meanwhile, the injured man was lying on the street on the cold rock at freezing temperatures, as it turned out, with a fractured femoral neck. The Ambulance finally understood 50, not 5 minutes and not 15 minutes, but 50 minutes later. According to the people present, and according to the paramedics, his doctor, he arrived from Monor, while the incident happened 700 meters away from the rescue station in Kispest. Luckily, there was no major damage, but it wasn't the health government. And all of this happened in Budapest, in a district with relatively good health care. You can then imagine, fellow Members, what is the situation in the country's more difficult-to-reach areas, which have been badly supplied. Of course, we know the reasons. Paramedics also receive new tasks from the government without providing them with adequate respect or adequate means. Thus, there is a constant shortage of numbers and a lack of technical errors. The problem is not new, by the way. According to the State Audit Office's report on the control of the emergency care system, the National Rescue Service reached only 59 percent of cases in 2017 in the case of immediate alert tasks within 15 minutes. [[20.00]] Four times out of ten, the ambulance didn't get there in time. It is worth recalling that there is often a false reference to previous left-wing governments that in 2010 nearly 80 percent of the cases reached the ambulance within 15 minutes. It's no coincidence that the rescue service hasn't been willing to release any more data to the press since then. In such a serious situation, ostrich policy is the worst; this is what happens. The parachutized head of the rescue service is constantly expressing the excellent condition of the rescue service, and likewise the heads of the medical government are boasting. However, it is time to face the real situation: the National Rescue Service is held together only by the vocation of those who work there. And what does the government do in this situation? He's giving the ambulance another job. The failed Hajdú-Bihar county on-call experiment is now extended to Bicsk, making it national. The consequences are predictable, both the on-call system and the quality of the rescue will deteriorate. What's left in the hands of the state has worked poorly in health care during the Fidesz government. But they can continue to think about how to take more and more things away from the municipalities and centralize them. They've taken away the patronage service, they've taken away the on-call system, they're also preparing for centralization of the general medical system and specialized care. In recent years, Kispest has spent billions of HUF on the health care institute in Kispest, the clinic. For example, one-day surgical care was recently opened here. Similarly, Kőbánya spent considerable money to improve the conditions of the protective service and to renovate the clinics. Now the state wants to take it all away. Because all that matters to the government is control of power and resources, so that they can spend public money. It can also be seen that in the leadership of the Ministry of Interior assigned to the task, there was no real commitment to health. The Kepestians and the Kőbányas deserve better than this. The shadow government of Klára Dobrev brings the hope that it can be in Hungary, including in Kőbány and Kispest, a European standard of care, a health care that does not allow its injured, sick citizens to lie on the streets, either literally or figuratively. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-03-06-276	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Have a good night.
