u2023-05-23-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 21st day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that Mr Attila Gelencsér and Mr Dániel Z. Karpát will be here to help me. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, has applied for a pre-meeting address:. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-05-23-1	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr President, I think it is worth talking about Hungarian economic policy in 2023, and if we are talking about economic policy, it is not surprising to talk about the most powerful pillar in 2023, the battery strategy. It is worth looking at what the battery strategy brings, what the battery strategy takes, and what the consequences we face when we talk about a battery strategy. It can be clearly said that looking at the balance of this battery strategy, which the Hungarian government is forcing on this country, is strongly negative. It begins with the fact that the capacity of the battery companies, the quantity they produce, is significantly higher than the amount used by electric cars operating in Hungary, but also significantly higher than the amount required by car manufacturers operating in Hungary. However, I think that the problem is much more serious than that. We know very well, remember that in order to install battery factories, high quality Hungarian soils have been sacrificed, practically because of insufficient environmental regulations, people in the area are forced to suffer pollution and sacrifice Hungary's water resources. Therefore, in return, we see that we are not going to get much tax, because Hungary has a tax tax rate for corporate tax, which predestines these companies that, not only will they not pay the 9 percent rate, but they will pay up to a fraction of it, otherwise the average is well below 4 percent. What we also see is that although the State does not generate any tax revenue, we are sure to pay significant subsidies from our common money, partly directly to the companies that bring production here, and partly through developments that the Hungarian government is specifically implementing so that these companies can operate at all. I think that when we talk about economic policy, we need to see how today's issues in Hungary are related to the same issue, and I think that it is not possible to go without saying that, in order to do so, you are essentially trying to destroy the system of Hungarian public education in an indecent, immoral manner. We know exactly why. Practically all battery companies have said that two thirds of all job creations are low-skilled jobs, and you are trying to meet this demand by refusing to pay teachers in practice and refusing to create conditions in the education system that could make the Hungarian public education system successful. There is a text ahead of us, and I think what the Hungarian government has signed, so it has undertaken: this is the EFOP Plus programme. If someone takes the trouble to read this, the Hungarian government has undertaken not to take away the rights obtained from teachers, has undertaken to increase the wages of teachers significantly, with retroactive effect, they have undertaken to make the teaching career attractive and have undertaken to increase the number of teachers in Hungary to 140 thousand. I think that whoever has read the status law that you have put in place for social debate knows precisely that the status law does not comply with this, and that it is sufficient, by the way, to serve the low-skilled employment needs of battery companies. We would very much like to wait for the Hungarian countrymen to finally serve and make our young people competitive. Thank you very much.
u2023-05-23-2	Thank you very much, Congressman Csárdi. I give the floor on behalf of the Government to Secretary of State Zsófia Koncz.
u2023-05-23-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, With the LMP fraction, it has already been possible to talk many times about the green objectives, our climate policy objectives, within the walls of Parliament. I think that we can often have very constructive discussions in this House. Obviously, I do not feel that the results that we have been able to achieve in the past are always recognised, so I would like to give a very recent example, which, in my view, shows that Hungary is clearly a climate champion. Hungary had the eighth largest reduction in greenhouse gas emissions in the fourth quarter of 2022 compared to a year earlier. The EU average is minus 4 percent, ours is minus 5 minus 6 percent. I only thought I'd tell the congressman because it's very recent. Moreover, in many ways, we can say that we have achieved incredible results in this area, because we have been able to reduce emissions by continuously increasing the economy. Since 2010, the Hungarian economy has been able to produce one unit of GDP with 27 percent less greenhouse gas emissions, while industrial performance has increased by 44 percent between 2010 and 2021. It should also be said that in 2020 CO2 emissions per capita in Hungary were the ninth best of the Member States of the European Union. I thought we should put these in the framework, because now we have a next objective, in which the Hungarian government was very, very ambitious, because, first of all, we laid down at a legal level that we want to become a climate neutral country by 2050. Here comes the question of how to achieve this. I think consistency and objectivity can also be an important virtue on the part of the LMP. [[9.10]] Here are several questions in which it seems that we do not fully agree. However, in view of the overall international global situation in Europe, there are decisions that have been decided here in recent times between Parliament's walls. Here, we had to vote to indicate what people would think about these issues, and if we look at a war situation, it will do unbelievable damage to the very bad sanctions policy that has been put there. [[To interrupt Antal Csárdi:]] Congressman, you're right, thank you very much. [[Defiance.]] So the sanctions policy has had very damaging consequences for the entire European economy, and in this we are trying to protect Hungarian families, Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises; here we have to decide by vote. What do I mean? On the one hand, it had to be decided that you would accept the pro-peace resolution and you did not vote for it. It was also necessary to decide on amending the budget, where we significantly increased the protection of the rent so that we could help the Hungarian families, the Hungarian business representative did not vote for it. Paks I's extension had to be decided. Now, we're getting closer to climate neutrality here. I think that, as a clean energy source, the European Union has also decided on this, and this would have been an important issue, since Paks I. gives a significant part of the Hungarian energy production and energy consumption; and indeed we have decided to vote in favour of Paks I.'s extension, and you have not voted for this. In fact, if we are talking about environmental protection, awareness, nature, how to protect the Earth and the natural resources of our country for the next generation, then there was also the 5th national environmental programme, which you also did not vote for. I think that these programmes, these objectives, would significantly help us to achieve, in principle, our common objective of being climate neutral by 2050. You, Congressman, were talking about battery production. However, within the walls of the house, we have talked about this topic several times, and yesterday we had the opportunity to do so. I can confirm to you in this situation and on this issue, just as yesterday, that we consider it important to talk about this issue, because these are serious, significant investments, of course, in these matters we must say what the position is. Yes, strict compliance with environmental rules is very necessary, and we believe that not only in the case of battery production, but in the case of every investment in Hungary, the strictest rules must be observed. At the same time, there is competition in this area, electric cars are coming, and energy storage is also needed, so I would like to ask the Member and his faction to support the Hungarian government in this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-23-4	Thank you very much, Mrs Zsófia Koncz. At the same time, Ms Rebecca Szabó, representative of the Dialogue, asked for a speech before the agenda. In the finite world, there is no endless increase in the title of Dialogue-GROANS for a just green transition. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2023-05-23-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Last week in Brussels, the European Parliament, I attended a large-scale conference entitled Beyond Growth. The meeting took place with 2500 people, half a hundred speakers and thousands of online followers. There was a great deal of young, 20-year-old activist or even scientific researchers among the participants and speakers, who expressed radical criticism of the economic arrangement that led to the use of Earth's resources per year by 5 June this year. The main message of the three-day conference is clear: a planet with finite natural resources cannot grow infinitely. Our Earth's resources are finite, the time of the economic model based on infinite growth is over. The pursuit of economic growth cannot be separated from the destruction of the environment. GDP, as the main measure of farms, does not show in itself either the environmental price of growth or the increasing livelihoods of people's masses. The symptoms of all this are evident today: we see the climate crisis, overfishing, deforestation, the mass extinction of species, drought and lightning floods, and for example, a sad example of how the extreme drought was followed by a tragic flood with more than a dozen dead people. We see the increase in inequalities, the difficulties faced by social groups. The root of these crises is the same: our wasteful, resource-intensive, unsustainable economic system based on the exploitation of the environment and man. However, the economy is not a natural phenomenon that cannot be changed, and our economy is embedded in society, and all of this is in the ecological environment, and they affect each other. We are part of this structure, we are not separated from it, so if we are talking about sustainability or climate protection, we cannot pretend that we are standing outside it, and we are actually protecting our own living conditions by talking about protecting the climate or biodiversity. A lot of people can say good, good, these green things are important, but in a lot of places people starve, they can't heat. However, the first step in green policy awareness is the realization that the ecological crisis and the social crisis cannot and cannot be opposed. These are all problems caused by the same poor economic approach. We must therefore switch to a kind of sustainable retreat, rather than the economy, to social and human well-being. We need to reduce our production and our consumption in some harmful areas. All of this is fair, of course, because the global resource crisis and climate crisis are not driven by over-eating social groups, but by consumption of the top ten percent. This represents about three-quarters of pollution and resource use, so it's easier to say that global elite consumption is destroying our planet. And this is the case in Hungary: while the NER elite is flying private, building new ports for its yachts, the masses of people face the fact that they can no longer pay for their usual food. Orbán and Fidesz have not only decommissioned the institutional system of environmental protection and nature protection, but some of the employees in the national park are now being laid off, and they are pushing for investments that may cause short-term economic growth, but which destroy nature and over-use resources. These are battery factories that use up our waters and cement our agricultural land. Such is the destruction of Lake Fertő, the destruction of the lake shore, or the dozing of the High Coast of Algara due to luxury estates, or the most recent destruction, installation and concreteization of the large, unbroken, Transdanubian world on the shore of Lake Balaton. This is what is happening in Hungary, and we have said many times on the part of the Dialogue-Greens: in order to achieve the highest quality of life with the lowest possible footprint, we need to change the economic rules and its objectives. It should not be quantitative growth in the focus, but a regenerative and redistributive economy that creates quality well-being that meets basic needs by remaining within the limits of our living planet. This requires a fair tax system, taxation of multi-billion-dollar and tax-absorbed global giant companies or a reduction in taxes on small earners, a fairer pension system or even the introduction of basic income. So we in the Dialogue-Greens say that we need a fair green transition, rather than over-spinning consumption, a more people-centred, balanced society, and that is why we will also be working in the elections to the European Parliament and to the local government. Thank you for your attention.
u2023-05-23-6	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Rebecca Szabó. Zsófia Koncz will respond to what has been said.
u2023-05-23-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and This is a huge relief for us, and I think that practically the LMP and Dialogue, since the Dialogue became green, have basically taken on a subject, and what one does not have time to explain in the first stage, can do in the second stage, so there is complete symbiosis, harmony, cooperation, and obviously this is a case that one is happy to follow. So we were there in the framework of the previous speech, that I think that the cardinal points that the Hungarian people are interested in and affected both in terms of war and environmental protection, I told you there on the part of the LMP, but I am preparing for the Dialogue now as well. [[9.20]] I would like to point out that you have not voted in favour of the pro-peace resolution, that you have not voted in favour of the amending budget. It's really about insurance. Congresswoman says no, of course not. However, I would say that if we hadn't done this and raised the Rezségvédelmi Fund, then we couldn't practically help Hungarian people and families. Hungarian electricity protection works so much that, on the one hand, energy prices are the cheapest for the population, both for gas and electricity, so that they can save 2 million forints annually. I think this is very helpful for many Hungarian families. That is why I suggest or advise you to consider this in the future. The extension of Paks I's operating time was not voted either. This is where climate neutral objectives arise as to how we want to achieve this. Once we wanted an electric car, now we don't want it, we don't want nuclear power. I don't really see consistency in this case from the Dialogue. Nor did they vote for the national environmental programme. Now, this is the framework for starting this case. Protecting nature, protecting the Earth is, of course, an important thing, and doing so together with the Hungarian people, I think that is an outstanding issue and issue, so it is good that you brought it here by a congresswoman. I think there are programs on the part of the Hungarian government that prove very well how important these matters are, from the smallest to the largest. Such is the green-school program, the eco-school program, or even the, you take it! It was an incredible success. Obviously collecting waste is a good thing in the first place. It would be good not to do this, but since it has to be done, the fact that every year more people come forward and we can get rid of more waste in the country, I think it is important. But so is the PET Cup. There are a number of civil and governmental measures that really aim at protecting the Earth. And the fact that we represent this issue locally with the local communities, I think that's the most important thing. This is the direction, and this must be highlighted. Economic development and the ability to reduce emissions are also an objective of the Hungarian government that needs to be highlighted. It has to be said, after the unemployment rate was 12 per cent in 2010, saying sentences that the economy and industry would be held back... well, I don't know, they probably wouldn't have been able to fit in here, in the walls of Parliament, because the fact that Hungarian people have a livelihood, a job is an important objective. Some of this is also the automotive industry. Commissioner, you can also see that hundreds of thousands of people are employed by the automotive industry. And there is a technological competition here, and we have signed up to participate in it. In 2020, we adopted the climate and nature conservation action plan, which consists of eight points, eight actions. This is being implemented. For example, eliminating illegal landfills is such an objective or cleaning up our rivers. I have just said a specific point that aims at achieving these objectives. But in addition to planting ten trees after each newborn, or increasing the forested areas from 24 percent to 27 percent by 2030, all cases that the Hungarian government considers important and not only accepts an action plan, but also concrete actions that we are trying to strengthen in this respect. There is no time left to talk about solar panels and solar power capacity within renewable energy, but the fact that we have set 6,000 megawatts by 2030, but we will probably be able to double that, also speaks for itself. I would ask the Member to support the objectives of the Hungarian Government in these matters, if you really think it is important. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-23-8	Thank you very much, Mrs Zsófia Koncz. Mr President Novak, representative of Mi Hazank, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-05-23-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I have brought ten plus one proof of the unfortunate participation of the Hungarian government in the Ukrainian war. The biggest public uproar, even among the Fidesz voters, was the large coalition vote for NATO enlargement. Unfortunately, the Hungarian veto of the enlargement of NATO Member States is now being promoted as a single party by Mi Hazan, because another step towards the World War would be a provocation for further expansion of the military alliance on the border of Russia, while the neutral zone would be of international interest. Unfortunately, the Hungarian government is also involved in war madness. The second proof of pro-warhood is economic war, support for sanctions. The embargo against the Russians has already caused invaluable damage, especially to Hungarian agriculture in recent years. Let the Hungarian interest be the first! The Hungarians decided: 97 percent did not decide on sanctions, but Viktor Orbán always supports them in Brussels instead of veto. So, unfortunately, Hungary is also assisting in serving American interests in the face of the shaming government propaganda. The Hungarian financial support of Ukraine is one of the most incomprehensible. According to the government resolution of 16 March, we support the anti-Hungarian Ukrainians through the EU with 74 billion HUF, and instead of veto through the EU, for example, ammunition subsidies are supported. Hungary also supports the Ukrainians' war with fuel to ensure the operation of Hungarian tanks, also directly. The Ukrainian oil refineries and reservoirs were destroyed in the summer by the Russians, and since then Ukraine's army has been supplied with fuel from abroad, mostly with Hungarian gas oil. It's worth it to some people. The fifth proof of the Fidesz government's pro-warhood is that our country has become a foreign military march area by allowing NATO combat groups, especially American armored men. Disbanding Hungary's independence is unacceptable. Foreign forces would have no place in our country, Hungary belongs to the Hungarians. After voting in favour of NATO enlargement, of course, it is no wonder that our country has been added to the list of unfriendly countries with the Russians. The pro-government propaganda is extremely false that the Hungarian-Ukrainian border is not being crossed by arms shipments, because, in fact, arms shipments can go through Hungary to Ukraine through the intervention of Slovakia and Romania. The government is a hypocrite! In fact, a Hungarian military transport machine is carrying weapons to Ukraine. Indeed, a photo of the launch of the missiles was also published in one of the Hungarian flagship C-17 aircraft of the NATO Heavy Air Transport Regiment stationed on the Pope. They also undertook to secure the Baltic airspace with Hungarian Gripens, where they were in conflict with Russian fighters, and the Hungarian Defence Office proudly reported this. The ninth evidence: with Hungarian Gripen they also agreed to protect Slovakia's airspace while giving Ukraine their own MiG-29s. This is the indirect support of the US-Russian war in Ukraine. The 10th, which the Hungarian government kept secret and we had to learn from the Slovak Minister of Defence: Hungary is also involved in the training of Ukrainian soldiers and health professionals. The details have been encrypted in vain. But here is another point on how the Hungarian government supports the Ukrainians' war. The commander of the Hungarian Defence Forces also visited the Ukrainian General Staff in secret during the summer. We also learned about this only afterwards, from Ukrainian news. At that time, the Head of the Ukrainian Armed Forces stated that he was satisfied with the level of military cooperation between Ukraine and Hungary. Now we're starting to understand why. And this is the last point of diplomatic warfare that the Hungarian government is conducting. Even in the so-called pro-peace resolution, only Russia was unilaterally convicted. Instead of folding Ukraine's territorial integrity, the Hungarian government should instead prevent Transcarpathian Hungarians from being used as bullets. This isn't our war! Yet hundreds of Transcarpathians of Transcarpathians died or were injured in this war, so after the Ukrainians and the Russians the greatest blood sacrifice was brought in this war by the Hungarians, even though Transcarpathia is the only region of Ukraine that has not yet suffered a Russian plague. Let us conclude, then, that we do not stand for Ukraine's territorial integrity. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-05-23-10	Thank you very much, Congressman President Novak. Tamás Menczer, State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, will respond to what has been said.
u2023-05-23-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Listening to his speech, I had mixed feelings, mixed thoughts, because he said sentences I can identify with, with which I can agree: Hungarians in Transcarpathia must be protected, this is not our war, and there were others. However, there were sentences that I had to reject completely. The thing is that, listening to your speech, I have finally come to the conclusion that you, honourable Member, can afford that luxury by attacking the Hungarian Government completely unfoundedly. [[9.30]] A party in such a situation as yours and a Member in such a situation can afford it even during a war, but a government and a governing party cannot afford it, so I would like to inform you and this House of the position of the Hungarian government in relation to the war. So we were on the side of peace and stand by it. As I understand it, at some point, you questioned that, too. So we were on the side of peace before the war broke out, we did everything we could and we always said that maintaining peace was the most important thing. Unfortunately, this has not been successful, and since the outbreak of the war, which has now been going on for over a year, we have always said that the restoration of peace is the most important and immediate ceasefire, and that peace talks, no one can make an obstacle, it is not right for anyone to set conditions for peace talks and ceasefire, because only if weapons are silenced and the war parties sit down next to the negotiating table. So we are on the side of peace. Unfortunately, it is true that we are actually alone in the European Union. Here would still be our Serbian friends, who, unfortunately, are not in the European Union at the moment. [[The Foreman of Novak: You could veto!]] It is good to mention the issue of sanctions. Here I tried to take note of the points, perhaps he also accused us of supporting the sanctions policy. Let me draw your attention, in brackets, to what I had the opportunity to draw the attention of our fellow Member of Hungary yesterday, to the fact that I would be careful, if I were you, of the accusations made by the Hungarian left regarding the government, and Ferenc Gyurcsány also said, because they will end up drifting to Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[Dr. István Apáti: Definitely not!]] They may be against this, but words and actions are talking, and the example of the right-wingers sitting next to you shows that this is not a recipe for success. With regard to sanctions, we do not support sanctions policy. We have always said, in general, that we do not think it is right, because experience is that this type of policy does not bring the desired results. We have said that there are red lines for Hungary. These include, for example, the preservation of the country's energy security. For this reason, we have never supported any decision, and the Hungarian Prime Minister, the Hungarian Foreign Minister and the Hungarian Government have always achieved an exceptional procedure in terms of energy, and the Hungarian Prime Minister and the Hungarian Government have reached an exceptional procedure, which is why the country's energy security can be guaranteed at present, for example, Russian crude oil can arrive in Hungary. The other issue is that the Ukrainian President is talking about blowing up the pipeline, which is, of course, unacceptable, as is the silence in Brussels in this regard, but at the same time we have achieved that the sanction does not apply to the supply of oil through the pipe, the country's energy supply is guaranteed. With regard to gas, there is also no decision that would jeopardise the country's energy supply, and we have also made it clear in relation to nuclear energy that this is also a red line, and we do not support any sanctioning decision that would apply to nuclear energy and would jeopardise the country's energy supply. So we're pro-peace and anti-sanctioned. With regard to assistance, let me say that, yes, there is a war, and we are carrying out the greatest humanitarian action in Hungary's history, and if you criticize that it is for injured soldiers, whether it is for any, in our case, Ukrainian but damaged people or wounded soldiers, or even for Ukrainian children to be camped in Hungary, or for those in need, you may criticize it, but we will continue to do so. And in addition to the Transcarpathians, as we have always done, we have always stood up in the future. We are now fighting to ensure that Hungarian language education is maintained and that many ethnic schools do not have to be closed in September. Our fight is difficult, so please give us your support, and don't tell me baseless lies about the government. Thank you for listening. [[Foreman Novak: 74 billion for Ukraine! You're giving me money for the war! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-23-12	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Tamás Menczer. Dear Parliament, Congressman János Bencze, representative of Jobbik, applied for a speech before the agenda: what are you doing with Hungarian agriculture? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman Bencze.
u2023-05-23-13	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, It's quite poetic of my speech, but I have nothing else to say. Since last spring, Ukrainian grain and the situation in Ukraine have come upon us, you, the respected government, have tried to reach into the lives of Hungarian farmers in several places. I mean, it didn't go well. Everything went wrong. Once we asked for it, I asked for it on behalf of farmers to fight for them until June 30, 2026 and to fight for Hungarian farmers. You, the Magos, the NAKs in your ranks, have said that you will protect them. They weren't protected. The ban on imports of cereals expires on 5 June, and the Union promises to put an end to it. This is their first message to farmers in large perspectives. We'll take the second one. You promised me a kind of protection against land speculation. You have promised that the price of the land will be determined on the basis of average prices for the last two years, based on sales, so that farmers can benefit. We don't know what happened. We're completely in over our heads here. They came out, so let's say that the official land prices, the Hungarian land, have become official prices, and that the farmer who is 10 percent different from this price is considered a speculator, he is a criminal, so they are terribly squeezed. The farmers say that what you did, not even the Communists could do that. When they had to take their land into the tees my family's, they brought it in at face value, gold crown value, they didn't lose their value. Let's see what happened. To be specific numbers and to ask for their help, first of all, either to abolish this abnormal provision and really help farmers or to override them, sit down with them to form a land price. I say my own narrower Patriot, the neighborhood of Simontornya, an awful lot of outraged farmers have called from 50 hectares to thousands of hectares of farmers, what is happening here, what you have done. Let's look at the land prices specifically. To be sure, I opened my laptop. Let's talk about Tom's walk. In Tamási, where there is a potenta linked to you, interestingly, the average price of 1 hectare is slightly above HUF 2 million and 878 thousand. We also do not understand the quality of the land, but they were still relatively good there, the ten percent they can fit into the land value of about 3 million, which is the real price for us. However, in the rest of the district, the price of 1 million 437 thousand forints was 1 hectare of land. We don't understand how. The contracts weren't so tight, we couldn't find a printed-price contract, and the point is, farmers asked about magos, NAK, they got answers that they said it was peasant blinding. IT system malfunction. Someone's wrong, calm down, they'll fix it. They didn't fix it until this morning, I'm sure, before I got into this room, nothing happened. What will this artificially depressed land cost do for a Hungarian farmer? Once he exposes them to speculators, because there is no land for sale, it can be obtained by speculation, and I can tell you that the young people can't get to the ground, but there is a farmer and a living example who bought an agricultural machine, say, for 60 million forints, who, if he needed 100 percent credit cover, paid 20 hectares of credit cover for it, and if the bank notices that you have half the land price with a kind of official pricing, then 40 hectares of credit is the problem. If these years come, the Ukrainian grain, the price of Ukrainian grain, they will go bankrupt, and the bank and your speculators will carry their land at a price of 1 million 400 thousand forints. I really don't want that. We must state that the land is the foundation of the survival of the Hungarian people and the survival of the Carpathian Basin. This is most threatened by speculation and the destruction of Hungarian farmers. So I ask you, stressing the word of the farmers to reconsider this provision, to abolish it if you refuse to abolish it, because you see something good in it, then sit down with the local farmers, discuss what they want, and what is the realistic price of the Hungarian land on which the agricultural land can sell. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2023-05-23-14	Thank you very much, Mr János Bencze. On behalf of the government, I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas.
u2023-05-23-15	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, In fact, you mentioned two topics in your speech before the agenda: first, you referred to the situation on the domestic market caused by the cereal situation in Ukraine and, secondly, the differences in land prices in different regions, which I will return to later. [[9.40]] I would therefore like to say to you first of all about the Ukrainian cereal situation, that, as we have already had in this conversation, if I may say so, the situation has changed between the walls of Parliament in so far as the contracts concluded before 2 May are virtually not accepted by the Hungarian government, and therefore transit shipments which pass through the country are authorised, but not shipments that enter Hungary with a target in Hungary. Therefore, there has been a lot of debate in various fora in the European Union, and it has been even assumed that Hungary will not benefit from the EUR 100 million credit line or funding framework if we do not withdraw our restrictions. Today the negotiations will continue, literally today and in the coming days, we insist that Hungarian farmers will not be harmed in this area. We also know that, at the moment, if we look around the world, but we do not have to go very far, only in the Hungarian Great Plain or in the Transdanubia, we can see that there is a very good crop. It's a very good crop, these plants often sleep outside, but this requires sufficient storage capacity where we can plant these grains. According to our survey, farmers have about 7 million tonnes of empty capacity. That this is in exactly where it is needed locally, this is yet another question, which is why, as a result, we are practically not allowing Ukrainian grain to enter Hungary in the coming period. The Union has set a deadline for 6 July, and we say that no grain will come this year. This is our position, and that is why we are sticking to it in Brussels, so from this point of view, believe me, we are trying to protect the Hungarian farming community as much as possible, just so that not only summer harvests but autumn harvests can be properly secured. The other question he raised was that there are indeed difficulties, and the news has also come to us. The training of these prices is a very interesting thing, the average price established on the basis of sales contracts registered at the land offices. Now, how different this is from the real market price at the moment, I don't want to attack anyone, I don't want to put anyone in a position where they may have been manipulated, or the prices in the contract are not what reality or established market relationship is, and we need to find out, we need to find this solution, and there really are anomalies where there are extremely low prices, but we are going to investigate that, and I will give you an exact answer the next time you ask that. So that's all I have to answer for you. However, let us allow the Hungarian economy not only to be protected by me, but also by all of us here, not only in this situation in the crisis in Ukraine, but also through the tightening up of European agriculture as a whole. One of our conditions and one of our most important questions is to produce a good quality, high quality, safe food, against environmental criteria that cause growing difficulties and cause more and more serious damage to Hungarian farmers. But we will also find those solutions in this, and we will rely on the fact that Hungarian producers, the food produced by Hungarian farmers, will be on the table of Hungarian consumers and not on foods of uncertain origin, coming in from abroad without testing. Back to your question, that's what we're going to answer. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-23-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Farkas. Dear Parliament, Mr Zsolt Molnár, representative of the MSZP, asked for a pre-meeting address with the title: "Ongoing issues." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-05-23-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, There are some issues that have been very topical for months, but in recent days, in weeks, they have become even more relevant. I could also say that not only the international situation is increasing, but also the domestic situation in parallel with it. We have come to the era of rescue packages, when inflation, food prices, costs, household rents, fuel prices, travel costs are an unbearable burden for the family, families, a significant part of Hungarian society, and, of course, the holiday and holiday season is coming up, let us say it in Hungarian: summer, the era of holiday, which is also a huge challenge for hundreds of thousands of Hungarians. Therefore, we socialists, social democrats, do not stand by and watch the situation. I could also say that hic et nunc, unfortunately I can't continue in Latin like István Hiller, but here and now it is the era of rescue packages when action is needed, so we prepared two packages, with two rescue packages. One for households in relation to living: VAT reduction or the abolition of VAT for basic foods, of course a pension increase of 5%, a pension increase of 5 per cent or a food credit card allowance of HUF 20,000 to the most deprived family, not to mention the support of small shops and domestic-owned convenience stores. These are necessary, as is the need to maintain and even extend these official prices, and in this connection we submitted two legislative proposals last week. One is, of course, related to the beaches, to the paid beaches, where we find that not only the price of the beach walkers is skyrocketing, nearly 2 thousand forints are already in many places, but also the parking, the travel costs, so a huge challenge for families is a vacation in Balaton or Lake Venice. Therefore, we recommend maximizing the price of adults' entrances in 600 HUF on a paid beach next to natural lakes. Of course, this is not enough for many families, so we recommend a 100,000 HUF holiday allowance for the SZÉP card, which works by the way, and has good infrastructure, 400-500 thousand Hungarians: disabled, large families, children alone, health and social workers, workers in the education system. This would amount to about HUF 40-50 billion for the budget, and a significant part of it would be put back into the budget. This would be an opportunity that does not in itself solve holidays and vacations, but it would also provide an opportunity for those who have a good chance of not getting to Lake Balaton or Lake Venice this year. We face... social democracy has been fighting for centuries for holidays, so that people who do not have the right to self-right or need help can live a decent life. We don't want the summer spent in the concrete jungle of children with keys, we want them to get to natural waters. You have the power, you have the responsibility. We have been told many times that we are banging open gates, and we hope that they will realize that so many budget opportunities and transfers are possible, as we are talking about lots that are the price of a football stadium. That is why we hope that you will exercise your power and will not abuse this situation, and that the well-being of Hungarian families will be more important to you than anything else, because there is nothing left to take away from Hungarian families, they must be given, there is no longer any further retreat, hundreds of thousands of people living in such difficult circumstances, hundreds of thousands of families. We hope that you will also consider this a national matter, not only the issue of Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin, which is, by the way, not only the protection of borders, national sovereignty, but the silent cry of hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families who are silently crying out for the time being, they are still asking for this opportunity. I trust that you are not looking at this issue from the point of view of belonging to a party, and not according to the chance of a opposition proposal converging to zero, of becoming a law, but of being often promised here, in this House, to bang open gates when it comes to the welfare of Hungarian families. The Hungarian budget can handle this, the municipalities can be compensated, all the opportunities are given, all the power, all the opportunities for you to make use of it. I trust that they will do so, for hope will die last. I am one of those who is often considered naive because of this, and I believe in the fact that Mr. Secretary of State is taking advantage of his influence, and this summer will not be a nightmare for Hungarian families, but a dream. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the opposition.]]
u2023-05-23-18	Thank you very much, Congressman Zsolt Molnár. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, will respond. [[9.50]]
u2023-05-23-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Regarding what the budget can bear, we may come to a different conclusion, perhaps from the opposition benches sometimes it may seem that a state budget can carry everything, but the situation was said yesterday that the country's margin of manoeuvre was reduced by HUF 4000 billion because of the rising energy bills, the underlying cause of which is the series of measures that we have talked so much about here in this House. I don't want to discuss this right now, because I don't want to repeat myself in this. At the same time, it is important that we look at how the financial scope of Hungarian families develops, whether in terms of holiday or in terms of other basic goods. Allow me to approach this from somewhere else, and start from the point of view that one of the biggest subsidies is that everyone in this country has a job. This may have seemed self-evident to many in recent years, but unfortunately, we are entering a time when economic difficulties could put jobs in jeopardy across Europe. That's why I think it's an important achievement that we have a 3.9 percent unemployment rate that we've brought down from 12 percent, isn't it? Now 4.7 million people work. If these people are working and they have a job, they have a much better chance of going on vacation this summer. As far as measures are concerned, a number of measures have been taken in recent months to increase the financial scope of families. For example: price stop, premium, interest stop, I could also mention the county lease, which has been used by hundreds of thousands of people. The common thing is that they can save significant savings for Hungarian families. This also helps them to have a better chance of going on vacation this summer if they want to. In particular, as regards the promotion of holidays or even leisure activities, I would like to draw your attention to the Erzsébet camps, in which 170 000 people can take vacations each year, and if we look at how much this number was when this government started its work, then six times. You mentioned the beauty card. Indeed, this is one of the main instruments of this type of aid in government policy. It is an extremely popular aid instrument, and the government has also tried to help families by giving them greater flexibility over the past period to what exactly they are using these funds for. With regard to their proposal to abolish VAT, I would just like to say that it is worth studying in advance what can and cannot be done under EU legislation. A number of product types have also been subject to VAT reductions. As regards tourism and holiday opportunities, it is worth seeing how tourism figures have evolved in recent years. We know that 2019 was the strongest year of Hungarian tourism, with about 42 million guest nights. Then, by 2022, while we were faced with all kinds of problems after the outbreak, this figure was close to 40 million, so last year's tourism was only 5 percent weaker than the otherwise record year of 2019. And if the question of what the season looks like this year, what do we see from how many people can go on vacation this year, then we can rely on January-March data, where the number of guest nights in Hungary is 4 percent higher than in 2022, so tourism is more intensive. I would add, however, that guests' nights from abroad are included in this, so this is worth considering separately. How the government helps those wishing to enjoy quality services: 41 hotels, 111 pensions and 5400 private accommodations were supported. As far as beaches are concerned, 42 free beaches have been renewed in 18 settlements, and I would also like to emphasise once again that if you look at the number of free beaches at Lake Balaton, for example, there are two thirds of the beaches. I would also like to add that last time I did not mention that the development of the bike circle at Lake Balaton has been completed, so now it is possible to turn the Lake Balaton around in a completely qualitative way. This is also possible at Lake Tisza, Lake Venice, so the quality of service is also getting better. By the way, we want not only to go to Lake Balaton, but to spend all the time in the country. [[The president, by jogging the bell, repeatedly indicates the expiry of the time frame.]] Get a proper, good service. For this, we have cultural, historical, gastronomic and natural qualities. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-23-20	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Dear Parliament, Member Ms Éva Sebők, representative of Momentum, also applied for a pre-scheduled speech on our current affairs. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2023-05-23-21	Thank you very much. Dear House, About two weeks ago, I had a very interesting conversation. Here in the corridors of Parliament, I met my pro-state colleague Kovács, who informed me that he was going to attend a meeting at the Ministry of the Interior about the future of the hospitals in Békés County. [[Bence Rétvári and Eszter Vitályos repeatedly intervene.]] I was quite surprised at that, and he said that the committee would delegate him to this meeting. I am genuinely surprised because Mr Kovács is a member of the Committee on Welfare, of which I am a member, and I do not remember that we delegated him to any meeting there. And when I spoke to the chairman of the committee, Mr Zoltán Varga, he was surprised, too, and he did not know about this discussion, and he did not delegate Mr Kovács. After a brief discussion, we concluded that there was only one thing: Mr Kovács could have been delegated to the meeting by his committee within the Fidesz Party. What do you say about the ministry's operation and the concept of democracy, that instead of the parliamentary committees, you turn to the committees of the state party when it comes to conciliation? Why does Fidesz treat the Hungarian health situation as if it were an internal matter of Fidesz? Information is the most important tool for Members to work with. However, the state party consistently pulls the most important tool out of the hands of opposition representatives. It's enough to think that both the Ministry and the hospital in Orosháza are clearly lying after a year and a half that they don't know how many doctors work in which department. If I ask now what was said at this meeting, will I get a meaningful answer? Will it make any difference if I draw the Ministry's attention to the obligation to provide the necessary information for our work? No, he won't. Over the past year, I've been narrow in different forms, but I've asked about 150 questions to different ministries, authorities, institutions. I can count on one hand how many times I've received a meaningful answer. However, in order to maintain posterity, I would like to ask the three most important questions. The first is why the Ministry of Interior consults the Fidesz committees instead of the Parliamentary Committees. What was said in this last week's meeting about the future of the Peaceful County hospitals? And I suspect that Mr Retvári will answer me; nearly a year ago, I asked you a question in the form of an interpellation as to what would happen to the many-day surgery of the hospital in Orosháza. You drove away that you really were only temporarily locked up, and you will, so after ten months, I'll ask you when the Orosháza hospital's multi-day surgery will reopen. Thank you very much.
u2023-05-23-22	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Éva Scarők. Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, will respond to what has been said on behalf of the Government.
u2023-05-23-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Parliament has its usual timetable and seating schedule. There are committees in Parliament, there are factions, ministers go to parliamentary committees every year and report on their activities during that year, and they are obviously also talking about plans for the following year. The committees shall invite ministers of state at intervals, either in person or in combination with a Deputy State Secretary, or together with background institutional managers, to report to the Committee on their own activities, whether any area of governance. In addition, it is clear that Members will address an oral question, a written question, an immediate question, and an interpellation to the Government. This is happening week after week, and of course the factions do their own work. Obviously, as I do not have any unquenchable urge to attend the meeting of the Momentum, you certainly do not ask for our factions; though I would understand the desire that it would be a level step if you could listen to such a faction meeting, but who has chosen the party list that you were on? [[10.00]] So obviously, we are discussing questions at our own Fidesz KDNP faction meetings, in our Cabinets, at various working group meetings, as you are asking questions in writing and in writing, and you will find answers to them. You are a list Member, as the overwhelming majority of left-wing Members are on the list, and most of the MPs are elected in an individual area, as I do, and obviously we are trying to discuss the most important issues in our own district; I think this is a very important part of the individual representation activity. Obviously, our fellow Member, whom you spoke to, also considers his district to be important, where he was elected. Unfortunately, you weren't elected there, he was elected, he was elected in the previous election, and he was elected before that, and he was elected even before that, because he was a very long-standing representative in the area, who has been elected many times, and I remember that he may have also been in charge of the local hospital, so he has a very thorough knowledge of health care as well. It is perfectly natural that, in relation to its own district, which is also its constitutional, fundamental law obligation, it seeks to promote what plans there are on both health and other issues, and how it can contribute to improving not only the health but also the road network, or the education system, or anything else within its own area. So, honourable Member, it is the general functioning of parliamentarianism, that there are plenarys, there are committee occasions, and there are also factions where Members are negotiating, but you are also here, so there is nothing to prevent you from taking part in any debate, any question concerning either county or nationwide, we all have national responsibilities, right? You said health care. If you look at the figures of this year's budget, you will see that there is HUF 2800 billion on the health line, and you may recall how much it included when we started our government: indeed, HUF 1198 billion. The amount that we can spend on health care has increased from HUF 1198 billion to HUF 2800 billion, and there have been renovations in 91 rural hospitals in recent years, in 54 clinics and 107 rescue stations, and we have built 23 new clinics and 34 rescue stations. These questions are important because you could tell us, however, that if you have ever had such a joint group meeting, then it has come to mind of our former fellow Member, Imre László, who is a former DK Member, but also of DK's politician, mayor, it may be that some shadow candidate's saying that there are too many Hungarian hospitals and that about half of them, I think, should be closed. Congressman Komárom, who, on the other hand, is certainly a shadow minister in the shadow government of Mrs Klára Dobrev, and she said that too much still remains in relation to Imre László's plan. So we would be interested in that, and the voters, although it may be that in the electorate's decision, because they did not choose you, but Mr Kovács, it was also part of the campaign, Ferenc Gyurcsány, that we were sitting here when we heard it, and then we fell when he spoke about it a year ago, that he would introduce the visitation fee again, because it was a real reform. That's what you say about health care, that's the closure of hospitals. [[Zsolt Gréczy: You're lying! He didn't say that!]] Obviously, several hospitals in one county mean that at least one, but maybe two would be closed in that county by the left, but they never told us exactly which hospitals they were thinking, but they just said that too many hospitals, but the visit fee would apply to everyone. So, honourable Member, we are curious about these, but it seems that we will never get an answer to that: when you talk about hospital closure, what hospitals are involved in it? [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] and the hospital in Orosháza is on the list to be closed. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Éva Scars: To my questions...]]
u2023-05-23-24	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári. Dear Parliament, Balázs Barkóczi, a representative of DK, applied for a speech before the agenda:. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-05-23-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, It has been almost a year and a half since the protest of teachers, students and parents against the criminal policy in Orbán that ignores the rights and demands of teachers and students. It seems that after Soros, Gyurcsány and the migrants, the Orbán policy, which builds on hatred in the West, has now found and created a new image of the enemy, i.e. graduates working with the same determination and students who always stand up for them despite ridiculous wages and humiliating working conditions. These people have received only dictatorships, firings, a law of vengeance and tear gas instead of dialogue for the past year and a half. And if this were not enough, your President of the Republic said that the wages of Hungarian teachers could be increased regardless of EU funds as a peak of political cynicism. What happened, fellow pro-government Members? Didn't Katalin Novak get his communications instructor in time? Or after M1, the Hungarian Nemzet and Origo he finally started to learn about independent channels to get a real picture of the state of Hungarian public education? Or were you ashamed of inflation three times higher than the EU average and double food prices over a year? Or what simply happened was that he knew that for the years that you promised to raise a teacher's wage, you would have the funding in the national economy, so that could be given immediately. Let's see what you promise. 77 percent, an extra HUF 4450 billion increase to the Hungarian budget until 2025, in the event that the EU funds that Hungarians do not have access to at the moment because of the theft of you and your business partners. And then let's face it, let's face it. In addition to the record high VAT rate and 26 per cent inflation, VAT revenues represent 700 billion extra revenues for the budget, with government investments shut down of 600 billion extra revenues. So you don't have to be an economist to see that only from these two sources can you give a 77 percent teacher's wage increase right now. Moreover, it is very talkative that during the protest of teachers, it was more important for you to buy Vodafone for 660 billion instead of investing these funds in Hungarian education. And let's see, instead of raising wages, what lies you're running into. They say that they will raise teachers' wages when EU funds come in, but my pro-government colleagues, the EU funds for the development of the teacher's career model, will not be affected by the withdrawal of funds due to your corrupt system, said the EU Commissioner for Employment. In any case, it is also talkative that, when Viktor Orbán had to vote for a raise in salaries for his and the State Secretarys, or a 50% increase in wages for ministerial workers and executives, he did not expect the resources to be from the Union and not Brussels. The truth is, therefore, while you have pushed the Hungarian economy into recession, while with inflation three times higher than the EU average and food prices doubled over a year, you have unleashed the economic monster called inflation in Orbán on Hungarian people, while you can only lie to teachers who are teaching and educating future generations unless you are fired or intimidated. The truth is that while you and Garancsi, Tiborcz and Mészáros are pointing behind your back to the Union, Brussels and Gyurcsány, we are working to ensure that the European Union funds for the Hungarian people are actually put to the Hungarian people, the Hungarian teachers, the Hungarian families, the Hungarian teachers, and that you cannot steal them, Mr. State Secretary. [[Bence Rétvári: What's new? Dr. Répássy, Róbert: Bence Rétvári: What a turnaround! (To Bence of Rétvári:]] Yes, in spite of his eyes, we do not represent the interests of Viktor Orbán and his associates here in the Hungarian Parliament, but the interests of Hungarian teachers and Hungarian people. Therefore, it is clear to everyone that the shadow government remains Hungary's only hope of repairing public education, as long as you intimidate, fire teachers and ignore the demands of trade unions, we negotiate and negotiate with them; while you spray our children with tear gas [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Was your child there? Eszter Vítalos: My child wasn't there, that's for sure!]] Until then, we will invest all of our common forints in their future; as long as you drive away universities, honourable State Secretary, and graduates, we will give back the freedom of teaching; as long as Viktor Orbán can only raise prices, he will increase the wages of Hungarian teachers to Kla Dobrev. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-05-23-26	Thank you very much, Congressman Balázs Barkóczi. Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, will respond on behalf of the government.
u2023-05-23-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I will see you again today, and I will see you again tomorrow at the nine-partisan meeting, honourable Member. You think a lot about how a political community, a party, an alliance of parties get there to start working against your country, start working against the Hungarian people when you confuse the government and the people, and hate the government so much that you can cross people at any time, in case people won't blame you for it, but the government, and then they can replace the government. [[10.10]] So, you think a lot about how a couple gets here, and you might have to look for the key to the election. You were sent by the Hungarian people to the bench of independents in 2010, and you have been held in opposition ever since, with less than one third of the authority in Parliament to intervene in our common affairs, in the affairs of Parliament. And you want to punish the Hungarian people for this. You show the Hungarian people that you did not vote for the Hungarian left, so the Hungarian left goes to Brussels, and there is still so much power for the Hungarian left, because there is a majority of left-wing thinking. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Shouldn't steal!]] that we can prevent you in Brussels from saying that the Hungarians' legitimate forints and euros will arrive in Hungary. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Are we that strong?]] You will avenge the Hungarians for not choosing you in the last election. And they can only do that here in Parliament, in a minority, with a vote, which is then without the power to stop the law. DK voted against all the legislative proposals tabled here in Parliament for agreement with the EU; they did not support this, they did not facilitate agreement and EU funds. And that is what they are doing now: punishing Hungarian people. You are working against the Hungarian people because most of the Hungarian people voted against you, and they believe that the Hungarian people deserve this revenge on your part. On the mountain of this revenge, who get it the sharpest, there are exactly the Hungarian teachers. Because you think that if the majority of the people didn't vote for you, then maybe the majority of the teachers voted against you, so you need to punish the teachers. You're taking revenge on teachers by obstructing a teacher's wage increase in Brussels with that argument. [[László Sebian-Petrovski: Why are you lying?]] that it was because of corruption [[Zsolt Gréczy: Give it to me from the budget!]] You can't pay teachers a higher wage, which is absurd, because no one in life can find any corruption risk in raising the wages of teachers. You, on the other hand, felt that the hour of vengeance had come against the Hungarian people. [[Intercoms from DK's ranks.]] if the Hungarian people did not support you, you do not support the Hungarian people; learn the lessons of Klára Dobrev and Ferenc Gyurcsány [[László Varju: Payback and pepper spray!]] [[Zsolt Gréczy: Give it to me from the budget!]] You can't pay teachers a higher wage, which is absurd, because no one in life can find any corruption risk in raising the wages of teachers. You, on the other hand, felt that the hour of vengeance had come against the Hungarian people (intercoms from DK's ranks). If the Hungarian people did not support you, you do not support the Hungarian people; learn the lessons of Klára Dobrev and Ferenc Gyurcsány (László Varju: Payback and Gas Spray!) as they learned in 2006, when we know what happened on the streets of Budapest. And now you're going to show me from Brussels that you can take revenge. (Zsolt Gréczy: Give it to me from the budget!) You can't be messed with, if someone doesn't vote for you, your salary will suffer. This is incredibly, morally unacceptable revenge that is being carried out against Hungarian people [[Laszlo Varju: Gas spray!]] This is the campaign. And especially against the Hungarian teachers, who do deserve the wage increase that we laid down in documents with the European Union last July [[Zsolt Gréczy: Give it to me from the budget! László Varju intervenes.]] that this year's salary should be more than 20 percent, 25 percent next year, and then 29 percent, and that we should be able to increase the wages of teachers by 75 percent in three years, and that there should be an average teacher's wage by 800,000 forints from 1 January 2025. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Give it to me from his budget!]] But you, where you know, are blocking it. Ferenc Gyurcsány, your leader, has also said that there is no need to lie, you can honestly say that this is a political attack on Hungary, which is dressed in a legal robe. [[László Varju: Then you have to pay and that's it!]] In fact, one of your shadow ministers has said that it is a patriotic obligation to prevent these resources from arriving in Hungary. [[László Varju: It's not true! Eszter Debate: It's true!]] It is a shame that you have come this far to avenge the Hungarian electorate for not choosing you. As for Vodafone and Vodafone shopping, this parallel is often brought forward - what have you done? All state assets have been sold. And in the meantime, what happened to the teachers' wages? [[Zsolt Gréczy: We raised it by 50 percent!]] They took a month's wages from the Hungarian teachers. While everything was privatized, all of it was sold in the area of 2008 and was sold for hundreds of public companies, while the wages of teachers were reduced by 8 percent. We have increased state wealth and are planning to increase the wages of Hungarian teachers by 75%, honourable Member. [[Defiance in DK's ranks. Zsolt Gréczy: Your own!]] This is the difference between you and us: we can both increase public wealth and raise the wages of teachers, but you have been able to reduce the state's wealth during your own governance, and the wages of teachers are unprecedented in the last 33 years, that any government would cut teacher's wages, and yet you have done so. [[Andrea Hegedüs: 260,000 HUF...]] And I thought it was Altus and everything. [[Zsolt Gréczy: We raised their wages by 50 percent! The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] A company close to Gyurcsány-Dobrev, however, has made quite a fortune in EU money. We question the hope of Hungary for Klára Dobrev; Klára Dobrev [[The president's ringing again.]] Ferenc Gyurcsány's last hope is to return to power. [[László Varju: A little more! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-23-28	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári. Dear Parliament, Imre Vejkey, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, applied for a speech before the agenda with the title "The current issues." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-05-23-29	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Crown virus epidemic, war, misguided sanctions in Brussels, i.e. inflation and the money market environment that we have had over the years have dramatically increased interest rates for both the population and businesses. In this difficult situation, our main goal was to maintain financial stability for households and businesses, and the security of housing. Therefore, in January 2022 we introduced the retail interest stop, which was extended to businesses in November 2022, and then extended it several times. The residential interest rate stop has so far protected some 350,000 families against high interest rates, i.e. today it has taken a total penalty rate of HUF 140 billion off the shoulders of households. Businesses were able to save HUF 80-85 billion as a result of the extended interest rate stop as a defense umbrella. This goes far beyond what other European countries have done to help their own citizens. Ladies and Gentlemen, The very high level of market interest rates today still does not allow for the launch of interest-stops, so we have decided to extend the interest-stop once again, as we cannot allow an intolerable increase in the burden on the families concerned and SMEs. The extension of the interest rate stop in the second half of 2023 could result in additional savings of HUF 60 billion for families and HUF 40-45 billion for businesses. In total, we support families and Hungarian SMEs by nearly HUF 330 billion. Ladies and Gentlemen, In addition to helping families and businesses, I would like to emphasise that we are also protecting young people in this difficult situation, in a situation of war and sanctions. Therefore, with a view to improving the situation of young people, we have also decided to introduce, from 1 July 2023, a highly preferential and free student credit account in several parts of the budget in order to reduce costs. The new account will be provided by financial service providers selected in an open tender, so that it will be free of charge, for example, for monthly account management, use of electronic services. [[Gergely Arató: The bank of Lőrinc Mészáros will do that.]] , monthly bank statement and the use of the associated credit card. The banks will provide otherwise different content but significantly reduced services to the student credit account openings, beyond the mandatory free-of-charge elements. Among other things, data subjects may benefit from housing credit, securities account management or insurance. Ladies and Gentlemen, In the economic situation affected by war and sanctions, it is particularly important to protect Hungarian families and Hungarian people against the extra expenses incurred by circumstances other than their own fault. The energy prices of the past period, the increased transport costs and the unprecedented wave of inflation have also significantly increased food prices. So far, the government has introduced twenty measures to reduce sanctions prices, the positive results of which are already visible. In order to reduce inflation as soon as possible and as much as possible, thereby further reducing food prices, two new measures will be introduced. From June 1, 2023, mandatory sales will start at retail shops, so every week customers will have at their disposal a grocery basket of twenty products in a particular store, which they can buy cheaper than before. As of 1 July 2023, the online price monitoring system applies to the largest trading chains, which records daily and regular customer prices per trader and store for more than 60 product products. [[10.20]] Ladies and Gentlemen, In contrast to the Hungarian dollar left, who have not supported any of our measures and who, in exchange for rolling dollars, are working with all their might against the interests of Hungary and the interests of the Hungarian people, we will continue to do everything in the future to break inflation and prevent recession. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] to protect Hungarian families, young people, pensioners, businesses. [[The president's ringing again.]] Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-23-30	Thank you very much, Congressman Imre Vejkey. On behalf of the government, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2023-05-23-31	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, In his speech before the agenda, he sought to present in detail all the measures taken by the Government to protect families while maintaining full employment in the war economic situation affected by faulty sanctions. However, in addition to Hungarian families, it is essential to protect jobs that enable these measures, i.e. businesses, in addition to the energy prices with sanctions. The Russian-Ukrainian conflict and sanctions in Brussels have economic consequences for the European Union's internal market as a whole. This threatens both the competitiveness of businesses and the jobs of Hungarian workers working there. Therefore, the government has helped and assisted the Hungarian business sector with a number of measures. Allow me to highlight perhaps the most important of these. The Government of Eximbank Zrt. was launched on 1 February 2023 in the framework of the Reindustrialisation Loan Programme by Gábor Baross. It supports the recovery of domestic SMEs and large companies from the crisis through state-supported low-interest financing schemes, while further expanding the export potential. In order to offset the high interest rate environment and tight bank credit conditions, the loan scheme offers favourable fixed rate forint and euro-based working capital and green investment loans to domestic companies, typically up to 6 per cent in the case of forint loans and up to 3.5 per cent in the case of euro loans. The loan programme was originally announced with a budget of HUF 200 billion. However, there was such a great interest on the part of domestic companies that on March 10, the government decided to increase the total amount of HUF 700 billion by HUF 300 billion, so the total amount available for the loan programme is currently HUF 1000 billion. Of this, HUF 600 billion can be used for working capital loans, HUF 400 billion for investment loans. Dear Parliament, Over the past 20 years, the Széchenyi card has repeatedly demonstrated its role and importance in the Hungarian economy, in the lives of Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. The role and importance of the programme in the survival, operation and development of SMEs has been appreciated in recent years, given the crises caused first by the corona virus and then by the post- and ongoing Russian-Ukrainian war. The Széchenyi Card Programme has become one of the most important programmes in the Hungarian economy strategy, business development and financing of businesses. In this fierce economic and financing situation, maintaining lending and avoiding recession are of common economic and social interest, as is the provision of funding to domestic micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which is the backbone of the economy, in a timely and sufficient amount. In the current high interest rate environment, the role of subsidised loans has been enhanced, with the help of which domestic companies can obtain funding at a significantly lower level than the market, maintaining and promoting their regional competitiveness and development potential. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-23-32	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, János Fónagy. Dear Parliament, Mr Károly Panczél, representative of Fidesz, applied for a pre-meeting address on current national policy issues. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-05-23-33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Over the past 13 years, we have achieved tremendous results in the unification of the nation, because let us say this: both before the change of regime and after the change of regime, this was a consciously neglected area in certain governmental stages. In today's Hungarian politics, there are two concepts: the Patriot is a national conservative and the globalist liberal. The patriot takes Dezső Szabó's view: all Hungarians are responsible for all Hungarians. For the globalist, nation, national union means nothing. In 2010, we began the unification of the nation, the cooperation between the parts of the nation torn apart in Trianon. Dear House, One of our first priorities was the introduction of a simplified naturalisation procedure. Thanks to the simplification of the establishment of citizenship, the 1 150 000 Hungarian citizens from abroad took an oath. Thanks to this procedure, Hungarians from abroad can participate in making the most important decisions affecting our nation. In the last parliamentary elections 318 thousand Hungarians from abroad lived with their suffrage, 50 thousand more than in 2018. The next step was the establishment of a system of national political institutions, through which programmes specifically aimed at supporting foreign Hungarians are in operation. It's the limitless! a program that has provided students from the motherland with a class trip to the Hungarian-inhabited regions of neighbouring countries since 2011. Thanks to the program, more than 500 thousand young people have already reached a cross-border area and gained personal experience of Hungarians across the border. This is the program in Hungarian in the Hungarian homeland, thanks to which more than 200,000 children and young people who have received Hungarian education in their homeland receive educational and educational support each year. The Kőrösi Csoma Sándor programme has become the flagship of national policy since 2013, and then the Petőfi Sándor programme. More than a thousand scholarships have already participated in programmes to support Hungarian communities living in diaspora and sporadics. The programmes launched by the government for the prosperity of Hungarian communities abroad in the homeland are also of particular importance. Here, too, the results are encouraging, as in the framework of the economic development programme in the Carpathian Basin, 60 thousand companies received development funds. More than 4,000 foreign business development projects could have been implemented through the programs of the State Secretariat for National Policy. Dear House, The result of this national policy is that the hundred years of loneliness have ended, we are not alone; Hungarians are not alone in the motherland, and Hungarians are not alone in the divided parts of the country. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, However, in recent years, our region has faced two challenges that have also been a priority for national policy. First, the epidemic caused difficulties in implementing national policy programmes, and then the Russian-Ukrainian war conflict created a difficult situation. It shows the strength of national unity that these difficulties did not break the mother country's commitment to the Hungarian community abroad. Support for Hungarian communities across the border has continued and it is also to be welcomed that special attention is being paid to the Hungarian community in Transcarpathia, which is in difficulty. The Hungarians in Transcarpathia who are struggling to survive must be given all possible help to maintain their institutional system. [[10.30]] Dear House, We consider it important that this year's support for foreign Hungarian communities will not only decrease, but will continue to expand. Thus, the amount of educational and educational support provided under the Hungarian programme in the Hungarian Homeland increases by magnitude. The programs have restarted, and in recent weeks, the most important calls for foreign Hungarians have been launched, the, without limit! The programme, the national care programme, the social programme package of Transcarpathia and the call for small settlements and sister settlement programmes in the Carpathian Basin. The continuation of the programmes is a guarantee that Hungarians across borders will continue to be supported in the future. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-23-34	Thank you very much, Congressman Károly Panczél. Árpád János Potápi will speak on behalf of the Government.
u2023-05-23-35	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the Commission, His speech before the agenda may also give the news that, in three days' time, there will be 13 years before we jointly decided on 26 May 2010 to grant the simplified naturalisation procedure, in short: the adoption of the Double Citizenship Act. Those of us who were here in Parliament at the time and who could vote on this issue, we can all say that this was one of the most uplifting moments of our lives, because the nation's traitorous national policy that characterized the government between 2002 and 2010 has ceased with this decision. It is safe to say that 26 May 2010 was a radical shift in national policy. Last week, on Friday, 19 May, the Hungarian Representatives' Forum in the Carpathian Basin met, which was set up by the Speaker of Szili Katalin in 2004 [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] After the left-wing government refused to convene the Hungarian Permanent Conference. The dialogue was thus able to remain at least at the level of the legislation with Hungarian organisations from abroad, and we were able to resume cooperation in the Carpathian Basin in 2010. President Katalin Szili, therefore, has irresistible merit in maintaining relations with Hungarian communities abroad. Thank you, Mr Speaker, for the further functioning of the Forum since 2010. It is also a special pleasure for us that the closing declaration and the resolution were adopted by unanimity again this year. We can safely say that in the last 13 years we have managed to achieve that the Hungarians are planning their future from here and beyond together. National cohesion has become an experienceable reality, we can safely say that it has become a experience and a shared experience here in the Carpathian Basin. The basis for this was also included in our Fundamental Law, according to which the mother country is responsible for foreign Hungarians in all circumstances in better and worse times. Thus, neither the world-wide epidemic nor the war in the neighbourhood nor the difficult economic situation caused by the sanctioned responses could override this commitment. The support of foreign Hungarians remained constant in both the period of the epidemic and in the shadow of the war since February 2022. As Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said at the 20th meeting of the Hungarian Permanent Conference last November: neither should strategic goals be given up in crisis situations, and national unification is such a strategic goal. 2023 is the year of the caring nation in national politics, this is our thematic year. We continue to take care of the Hungarian communities, taking care of each other here, in the Carpathian Basin regions, countries and, of course, in the diaspora. This means that the continuity and predictability of aid does not change. Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President of the Council pointed out the importance of the programmes and grants launched to support foreign Hungarians, and the fact that these will not cease to exist this year, and their size will not change or increase significantly for some programmes. For example, we have raised the amount of HUF 22 400 for education support to HUF 100,000 for students in Transcarpathia already in January, and everyone in the Carpathian Basin will receive it from autumn onwards. We share the same results, and we would also like to continue together that all Hungarians feel that they are important to us, to live here in Hungary, in the Carpathian Basin or in the world. We expect all Hungarians, and of course all Hungarians can still count on us. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks. Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2023-05-23-36	Thank you very much, Mr János Potápi Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, [[It's constant noise. It's ringing.]] Dear Parliament, We will now continue our work with decisions. The session will be handed over to Vice-President János Latorcai. (Recess: 10.36 - 10.40) President: Dr. János Latorcai Notes: Attila Gelencsér and Dániel Z. Carpathian)
u2023-05-23-37	I would like to welcome my fellow Members. We'll get back to work. I ask all of you to take your seats, because we will continue our work with decisions, and once you have taken your seats, please check that your card has been properly placed in the voting machine. I would like to inform this House that we are also deciding on the adoption of proposals requiring a qualified majority in today's decisions. I would like to draw your attention to the decision-making rules 50. § 3, if Parliament does not adopt a provision requiring a qualified majority in the final vote of the bill, this also extends without a further separate decision to the omission of the provision referring to the fundamentality of the unaccepted regulation. In this case, the final vote by a simple majority shall take place on the text of the proposal thus amended. The 2009 CLV on the protection of classified information follows. Act CXII of 2011 on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information. T/3676. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/3676/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, Jobbik's group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we're voting on first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Mr Zoltán Sas. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 56 votes in favour, 129 votes against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained the amendment proposal, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/3676/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 138 votes to 138, 25 against and 23 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3676/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 143 votes in favour, 26 votes against and 17 abstentions. It follows that T/3753 on the amendment of certain laws in the context of cooperatives follows. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The summation of the Legislative Committee's proposal for amendment T/3753/6 and its summary report T/3753/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/3753/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 139 votes to 139, with 30 votes against and 16 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3753/8. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 139 votes in favour, 30 votes against and 16 abstentions. Next up is T/3755 on the amendment of Act C of 2012 on the Criminal Code. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The summation of the Legislative Committee's proposal for amendment T/3755/6, and its summary report T/3755/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/3755/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 129 votes in favour, 57 votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3755/8. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 129 votes in favour, 57 votes against and no abstentions. It is now up to T/3756 on the amendments to the law resulting from the ex post impact assessment of the transformation in vocational education and training. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/3756/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. § 4 of the Jobbik Group proposed that amendment No 2 be maintained. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Mr Ander Balázs. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Jobbik Group proposed that Amendment 2 be maintained. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Mr Ander Balázs. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 42 votes in favour, 129 votes against and 16 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained the amendment proposal, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/3756/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 130 votes in favour, 34 votes against and 23 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3756/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 130 votes in favour, 34 votes against and 23 abstentions. We now have T/3776 on the amendment of the laws on the subject of justice. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/3776/4 and T/3776/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 17, 41, 42, 45 and 47 of this regulation, ladies and gentlemen, the decision will be taken in two instalments. [[10.50]] First, we decide on the parts requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3776/4. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 135 votes in favour, 31 votes against and 21 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3776/4. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 135 votes in favour, 30 votes against and 22 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3776/6. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 135 votes in favour, 30 votes against and 22 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3776/6. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 135 votes in favour, 30 votes against and 22 abstentions. Dear House, It follows that T/3777 on the amendment of electoral procedural rules in relation to electronic administration will be followed. on the regularity of the proposal for an excessive amendment to bill No 72. § 1 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union, on the initiative of proceedings pursuant to Article 1 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and on the proposals for amendments to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, on the one hand, and on the other, on the other, on the other. T/3777/6. T/3777/10. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee is separate from the summarised amendment proposal T/3777/7. The Commission also submitted proposals for amendments extending beyond figures 8 and 8 and T/3777/9 at the same time as the submission. No 72 of the Rules of Procedure. § 1 has proposed to the Parliament that the House Rules of Decisions 71. Paragraph 3 (a) to (c) shall not apply. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that we will decide separately on the over-extending amendments, first on the regularity of the over-extending amendment proposal, then on the 72nd. § 1 proposal. If these are adopted, we will decide on the proposal for an over-extending amendment. This is followed by the decision to make a summary amendment proposal and, finally, the final vote. Dear Parliament, The resolution house rule is 71. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Article 44 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, Parliament decides without debate that the extension of the proposed amendment is linked to the content of a duly amended proposal or to the House Rule 44 of the Rules of Procedure. If it is clearly necessary to implement the criteria set out in paragraph 1 of Section 1. Prior to the decisions, the rapporteur appointed by the Legislative Committee, and when there is a minority opinion in the Legislative Committee, the rapporteur for the minority opinion may speak in a total time frame of four minutes. The rapporteur may then state his position within a two-minute time frame. I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee has indicated in advance that it does not present a rapporteur. I would like to ask the rapporteur to make use of the opportunity to speak in relation to the regularity of the excessive amendments in the given two-minute time frame. [[There's no candidate.]] He doesn't want to. Now T/3777/7. We decide on the regularity of the proposal for an excessive amendment. I ask the Honourable Parliament to declare T/3777/7 to be in order. The proposal for an over-expansive amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament declared the proposal for an amendment extending by 130 votes in favour, 56 votes against and no abstentions. Now the resolution house rule is 72. § (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Parliament's contribution requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to agree to the T/3777/9. T/3777/7. With regard to the excessive amendment proposal No 71, the House Rules of the Decision Paragraph 3 (a) to (c) shall not apply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Commission shall decide on a proposal pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Article. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Parliament's contribution requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to agree to the T/3777/9. T/3777/7. With regard to the excessive amendment proposal No 71, the House Rules of the Decision Paragraph 3 (a) to (c) shall not apply. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament agreed to the proposal by 130 votes in favour, 57 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of an over-extensive amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of point 1 of this Article, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on a point requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/3777/7. Point 1 requiring a majority of the duly overextensive amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points of the exceeding amendment which required a qualified majority by 130 votes in favour, 51 votes against and 6 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the overextensive amendment proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/3777/7. The additional points of its duly overextensive amendment proposal require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the additional points in the proposal for an overextensive amendment by 130 votes in favour, 50 votes against and 6 abstentions. Now T/3777/8. We decide on the regularity of the proposal for an excessive amendment. I ask the Honourable Parliament to declare T/3777/8 to be in order. The proposal for an over-expansive amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament declared the proposal for an amendment extending by 129 votes in favour, 57 votes against and no abstentions to be in order. Now the resolution house rule is 72. § (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Parliament's contribution requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. [[11.00]] I ask the Honourable Parliament to agree to the T/3777/9. T/3777/8. With regard to the excessive amendment proposal No 71, the House Rules of the Decision § 3 paragraphs 3 to 8 shall not apply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] - paragraphs 8 do not apply. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament agreed to the proposal by 130 votes in favour, 56 votes against and one abstention. We are now deciding on the adoption of an over-extensive amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of point 1 of this Article, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on a point requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/3777/8. Point 1 requiring a majority of the duly overextensive amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points of the exceeding amendment which required a qualified majority by 130 votes in favour, 51 votes against and 6 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the overextensive amendment proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/3777/8. The additional points of its duly overextensive amendment proposal require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the additional points in the proposal for an overextensive amendment by 130 votes in favour, 51 votes against and 6 abstentions. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 1, 2, 4 to 26, 28 and 37, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the points that require a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3777/6. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 130 votes in favour, 51 votes against and 6 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3777/6. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment by 130 votes in favour, 50 votes against and 6 abstentions. It is now the final vote. In view of the fact that the Parliament has adopted the proposals for an amendment which is duly overextensive and the overall amendment proposal, the final vote will decide on the whole of the single proposal containing the proposals for an over-extensive amendment. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3777/11. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 130 votes in favour, 51 votes against and 6 abstentions. We are now deciding on provisions requiring a simple majority of the single proposal containing over-extensive amendments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3777/11. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 129 votes in favour, 51 votes against and 6 abstentions. It follows that T/3759 on the amendment of certain laws in relation to the status of President of the Republic will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The summation of the Legislative Committee's proposal for amendment T/3759/4, and its summary report T/3759/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 1 and 2, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the parts requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3759/4. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 130 votes in favour, 26 votes against and 28 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3759/4. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment by 130 votes in favour, 27 votes against and 27 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3759/6. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 130 votes in favour, 25 votes against and 29 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3759/6. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the additional points of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 130 votes in favour, 25 votes against and 30 abstentions. Dear House, It follows that T/3778 on the amendment of the laws concerning certain economic, asset management and postal matters on the regularity of the proposal for an excessive amendment to bill No 72. § 1 of the Rules of Procedure and, in the event of their adoption, of the proposal for an excessive amendment, the decision on the proposal for a summary amendment and the final vote. The summation of the Legislative Committee's proposal for amendment is T/3778/5 and T/3778/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee is separate from the summarised amendment proposal T/3778/6. It also submitted a proposal for an amendment that went beyond the scope of the amendment and T/3778/7 at the same time as the submission. No 72 of the Rules of Procedure. § 1 of the Act, in which it proposes to the Parliament that the House Rules of Decisions 71. § 3 paragraphs 3 to 8 shall not apply. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that first the regularity of the over-extensive amendment proposal and then 72. § (1) of the Act decides on a proposal, and if they are accepted, we decide on an over-extensive amendment proposal. [[11.10]] This is followed by a decision to maintain the amendment proposed by its representatives and a final vote on the draft amending proposal. Dear Parliament, The resolution house rule is 71. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Article 44 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, Parliament decides without debate that the extension of the proposed amendment is linked to the duration of a formal amendment proposal or to the House Rule 44. If it is clearly necessary to enforce the criteria set out in paragraph 1 of Section 1. Prior to the decisions, the rapporteur appointed by the Legislative Committee and, if there is a minority opinion in the Legislative Committee, the rapporteur for the minority opinion may speak in a total time frame of four minutes. The author of the bill then has the opportunity to present his position within a two-minute time frame. I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee has indicated in advance that it does not present a rapporteur. I would like to ask the rapporteur now if he would like to make use of the opportunity to speak in relation to the regularity of the proposal for an excessive amendment for a period of two minutes. [[For signal:]] I'll make sure you don't want to live with that. Now T/3778/6. We decide on the regularity of the proposal for an excessive amendment. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament that T/3778/6 renders it legal. Proposal for an over-extensive amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament has declared the proposal for an amendment extending by 129 votes in favour, 51 votes against and 6 abstentions in order. Now the resolution house rule is 72. § (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Parliament's contribution requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament... [[It's constant noise.]] consents to T/3778/7. T/3778/6. With regard to the excessive amendment proposal No 71, the House Rules of the Decision § 3 paragraphs 3 to 8 shall not apply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament agreed to the proposal by 130 votes in favour, 50 votes against and 6 abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of an over-extensive amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/3778/6. the proposal for a duly over-extensive amendment. Please vote. [[The voting machine won't start. Noise, interruptions.]] Looks like there's some kind of glitch in the system. [[Noise.]] I would like to say once again that we are now deciding to adopt an over-extensive amendment. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/3778/6. the proposal for a duly over-extensive amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the proposal for an amendment extending by 130 votes in favour, 50 votes against and 6 abstentions. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the House Rule of Procedure is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Act, the Group of the LMP proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we're gonna decide now. Amendment 2 is proposed by Mrs Bernadett Bakos. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The LMP Group proposed that Amendment 2 be maintained. That's what we're gonna decide now. Amendment 2 is proposed by Mrs Bernadett Bakos. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 59 votes in favour, 126 votes against and 2 abstentions. Dear House, As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of point 50 thereof, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the part requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3778/5. Point requiring a qualified majority of the amending proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal by 130 votes in favour, 56 votes against and one abstention. We are now deciding on a simple majority of additional points in the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3778/5. Additional points requiring a simple majority of amendments. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points of the summary amendment by 130 votes in favour, 56 votes against and one abstention. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the House that the House Rules of Decision 51. In accordance with Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure, the rapporteur initiated the postponement of the final vote. This is decided by the Parliament without discussion. Before making a decision, I will ask the rapporteur to explain the reasons for his initiative. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want it. Now it's time for the decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to postpone the T/3778. The final vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament postponed the final vote by 130 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 37 abstentions. Next up is the T/3760 on Administrative Recess. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/3760/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/3760/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 130 votes in favour, 16 votes against and 40 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3760/6. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 129 votes in favour, 21 votes against and 35 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3760/6. The Single Proposal No 1 requires a simple majority, further points. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points of the single proposal by 129 votes in favour, 21 votes against and 35 abstentions. [[11.20]] The decision and final vote on the amendment tabled by the Legislative Committee to the Act on Complaints, Notifications of Public Interest and Rules on Abuse, adopted by the President of the Republic on 11 April 2023, are now followed. Text of the Act sent to the President of the Republic for signature T/3089/12, letter from the President of the Republic T/3089/13. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. T/3089/15 of the Legislative Committee's amendment and T/3089/16 of its report I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that it is not possible to maintain a proposal amending the decision in accordance with the rules of the House and to request a separate vote. We are now deciding on an amendment to the Legislative Committee. I ask my fellow Members of Parliament to accept the Committee on Legislative Affairs T/3089/15. Amendment No 3 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment by 157 votes to one, with 27 abstentions. The final vote now follows, in which we shall decide on the text of the law which has not been announced, as amended by the amendment proposal of the Legislative Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament, he accepts the law on complaints, announcements of public interest and the rules relating to the notification of abuses which has not been published with the amendments which have just been adopted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament has adopted the amendment, which has not passed the law by 147 votes in favour, 6 votes against and 30 abstentions. We now have T/3769 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the simplification of the administration of families. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The summation of the Legislative Committee's proposal for amendment T/3769/4 and its summary report T/3769/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/3769/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 158 votes in favour, no votes against, with 26 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3769/6. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 157 votes in favour, no votes against, with 27 abstentions. We now have T/3780 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the simplification of public utility services. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/3780/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/3780/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 155 votes in favour, 14 votes against and 14 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3780/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 156 votes in favour, 14 votes against and 14 abstentions. The next step is the T/1619 on the amendment of certain transport laws. Decision on the necessary contribution to the withdrawal of bill No 1. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the author has withdrawn the bill. In view of the fact that this was done after the end of the detailed discussion phase, the resolution House Rule 66 is to withdraw the bill. § (1) also requires the consent of the Parliament. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to contribute to the T/1619. Revocation of bill No 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament agreed to withdraw the bill by 148 votes in favour, no votes against, with 36 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now time to discuss and decide on immunity issues. President Novák, representative of the Hungarian Parliament, received a motion to suspend immunity on 21 April 2023 5.B.2032/2022. on a case in which the Court of Justice of the Central District of Buda has been prosecuted for the offence of destruction. This was handed over to the immunity committee under presidential authority for consideration. The immunity committee shall be H/4091. Parliamentary MP Novak presented a proposal for a resolution on his immunity. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I will give the floor to János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee on Exemptions, who intends to explain the committee's proposal orally in a five-minute time frame. Mr. President, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2023-05-23-38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I'm bringing an extremely exciting case here in front of the House. I've been looking at this file for a week. [[Szabolcs Szabó: What difference does it make? You'll be pardoned.]] I've been looking at this file for a week, and I still find beauty in it, and in terms of legal reasoning, I find at least as many contradictions. That's what I'm trying to tell you. I would already like to point out that, at the meeting of the Committee on immunity, the Member, Mr President Novák, took part and made his own point in detail, highlighting the facts that I am now bringing forward. Since the case is instructive, I may be discussing the five minutes of this case for the first time. [[The Foreman of Novak: We look forward to it!]] We'll be back in time by 2015. In October 2015, 25-40 representatives of Kossuth Square will meet, with a better representative among them calling on this team to remove the symbols on the Soviet heroic monument. The team will also move to the memorial, where Congressman President Novak will read it in writing by the Btk. Asking the police to do this work to remove these symbols from the monument. They've got hammers, chisels and ladders. Of course, the police don't assist in this operation, they don't take the ladder so that this operation can be carried out, they do exactly the opposite, and there will be some confusion. The essence of the thing is that there is a loss of less than HUF 40,000 in the monument, obviously due to the use of the hammer and chisel. What do the courts do? At first instance, the congressman is acquitted by the court. Second, the congressman is acquitted by the court. What reasons does the court give? He says that this monument is not part of the cultural heritage, so a stronger punishment cannot be imposed here. It's a crime of destruction, but it's not a matter of disorderly conduct, but it's the two courts that say there's a simple expression of opinion, a political expression. The D.A.'s office won't settle for this. They're taking the case to the Curia. This is where you get a new turn: the Curia obviously gives guidance to the courts, the prosecution is changed accordingly, again first degree, the congressman will be fined. [[11.30]] Second degree: testers, 22. CHAPTER 03 On the 9th, they do not impose punishment, but say they will achieve the goal they want to achieve by testing it. What happens in parallel? Let us consider these acts as patriotic zeal of the Member, and in other matters, the Member is acting, and here I am talking about matters that were here before the Parliament. 2019. On the 29th of October, the congressman damaged a picture of a lesbian party, and there was some damage to it, isn't it? It's a spiritual creation, no matter what it depicts, this event took place at an exhibition. Later on August 18, 2020 he removed a rainbow flag from a public building in connection with the same commitment. This will also be a criminal case, and this criminal case will be brought before the House in October 2022. This is a matter of misdemeanour, this goes before the House, the House suspends the immunity of the Congressman, and obviously the trial of this matter begins. During the preparatory procedure, the judge is the previous case, the case No 15 which ended with trial, as a reminder: the Soviet monument, in connection with the destruction carried out there, cancels the trial, joins the ongoing minor matter, and sets up a set of penalties. The reason we're looking at this case is because what we gave the congressman's immunity was the events with the lesbian couple. [[Defiance.]] And what was the other one? the removal of the flag, in this case we have issued the MP's immunity, but to do so will include a more serious criminal case, which concerns the Soviet monument. That is why this House must be reflected again. So what we had to see was a public prosecutor's case, no matter how long it stretches, I'm sure two more degrees of court that this case is going to happen. This tells us a lot about the Hungarian court procedure, but we see one thing as the Committee on immunity that it is a public prosecutor's case. We consider, then, that there is a criminal case which is relevant, that the author had the right to submit, and this could be linked to the Member concerned. We have been able to answer yes to all three of them, so obviously we can do nothing but suggest to the House that we suspend the immunity of the Member in this matter, which he also asked for. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2023-05-23-39	Before we go any further, I respectfully inform you that the screen has been frozen. [[Depreciation and interruptions.]] Still, we're going to move on, that's not gonna be a problem, we're just gonna be a little slower than we were. I now ask Mr President Novák to make use of the five-minute opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-05-23-40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I am once again losing my mandate as a representative in paper form. [[Noise, constant interruptions.]] but my resignation due to the turn of Jobbik in 2016, this time, in the history of the Parliament, the plenary session itself may decide to take a mandate after the final court ruling. In addition, they can exclude me from the National Assembly because of political actions. Thirteen years after the Fidesz administration, we're saying that while the mandate of Gyurcsány sitting here instead of the prison is not in jeopardy [[Intercoms from DK's ranks.]] Mine will be taken away by a rainbow, well, well, several rainbow flags [[Defiance.]] the removal of the communist monument of Liberty Square and its supposedly forbidden authoritarian symbols as an attempt to remove attention, as a set punishment for my actions considered my duty of conscience. [[Constant noise, interruptions.]] András Pongráz, who is a flame cutter in the overthrow of Stalin's statue, attempted symbolic action at the call of the 1956 freedom fighter, is now entering a first-degree procedure after eight years, which is another disgrace of justice, since I have acted in the crossfire of simple cases and cameras, I have never denied the crime, I have always renounced my immunity and I have always asked for its suspension, yet ten years later, the final judgment and the paper form may be cancelled. Although I was acquitted at first and second instance, the Curia ordered the court of first instance to proceed with a new procedure. My lawyer Tamás Gaudi-Nagy and I have proven that Freedom Square is no longer a memorial site, but the D.A.'s office has modified the charges so that they can finally convict us. Only last year was another final decision, I was put to the test, so I didn't commit two criminal cases of LGBTQP propaganda during the trial, but they are now connecting the three. The police threatened a two-year prison sentence, a night search was carried out in my home, as well as in my elderly parents, and a DNA sample was taken in addition to fingerprinting and photographing, simply because of the inclusion of a rainbow flag, which is why the government is trying to intimidate the pro-normal forces against the propaganda of deviancies. In fact, my mobile phone's outgoing and incoming phone records have been secretly ordered to check my social contacts in the investigational material of about a thousand pages, and I have just published this surveillance document on my Twitter site. During the Gyurcsány-Bajnai regime, in five different cases, the court ruled that it was illegally produced, while they did not legally succeed once. As they then tried to draw the rubber line on all national resistance, the prosecution now accuses me of its definition: I was a provocatively anti-communicative, violent attitude capable of causing others to stumble. But the provocative anti-communicative behavior, for example, is committed by those who set the rainbow flag, I think. The government sees this differently. And although many of our sympathizers have suggested to me to save my mandate, I do not ask for mercy. [[Defiance and interrogation, including a Kossuth Prize?]] Let this case be a wake-up call to change the government's policy. As far as immunity is concerned in general, the Hungarian Movement would abolish this outdated political privilege so that the Pharisee politicians could not hide behind it. As a single party, our representatives always vote to suspend everyone's immunity. They voted against the inclusion in the series of amendments to our basic law to abolish immunity, saying that there is a common case law at international level. This is a lie, however, there are many European examples of abolishing or restricting immunity, in the United Kingdom and in Slovakia since 2012 there has been no immunity from criminal prosecution. The vote on our proposal was also justified by the fact that they do not exercise immunity in public cases, but I must also deny it. There have been several such cases under the Orbán and Gyurcsány governments. Fidesz MEPs, for example, have been asked by the prosecution to suspend immunity in vain in the case of a significant excess of private document fraud, fraudulent treatment, speed limitation, while the DK shadow minister, Gergely Arató, has been hiding behind his immunity by a miscarriage of reckless assault. [[Gergely Harvesting: I wasn't hiding...]] In the Fundamental Law, there is a lie that everyone is equal before the law, but there are more equals. I therefore request the suspension of my immunity, as well as the abolition of immunity. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-05-23-41	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I would remind you that the committee has taken a position to suspend the immunity of the congressman from the Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires the vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of President Novák. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not suspend the immunity of President Novak by 72 votes in favour, 23 votes against and 36 abstentions. [[Noise, interruptions.]] [[11.40]] Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that there has been a motion to suspend the immunity of independent MP Ákos Hadházy [[It's constant noise. It's ringing.]] On 5 May 2023 22 Bpk.123/2023/6. I'm a judge of the Egri District Court in a private charge of defamation. This was handed over to the immunity committee under presidential authority for consideration. The immunity committee is H/4092. Mr Ákos Hadházy presented a proposal for a resolution on his immunity. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I will give the floor to János Harghitai, the chairman of the committee, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal, in total, Mr President, within a five-minute timeframe. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-23-42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, There's no fair legal reasoning in this case, and I've seen it in the other case. It's a win-win case, in two ways. It is a typical place to commit on Facebook, and I must also say that it is typical in such a way that it is again the story of Congressman Hadházy, as has already been so many times in this House. The Egri District Court asks us, in a transcript, to suggest, in particular, that the Member's immunity be suspended because of a misdemeanor of defamation. The mayor of the reporter Pétervasára, so another public figure. From 23 January 2023 until 31 March 2023, Member Hadházy has repeatedly appeared on his Facebook page in the affairs of this settlement. Ten of these are listed in our proposal for a resolution, the congressman states something, more precisely his opinion, and the mayor denies it. I will only give you the first one in more detail here, because this is typical of how the Member is used to dealing with these matters. You're looking at a videotape of this, and this is what you're looking at, and this is what the congressman is saying. This, please, is a rural accommodation in a cabal, and this, of course, is placed in a quotation mark, for which the Fidesz mayor of Pétervasá received HUF 50 million in EU funding. Apparently, he's here on his sick leave. I found the mayor at work there, and this is what the congressman refers to in the mansion of the Jakuzzi tower. According to a local escort, the parking lot has his service Opel. The local escort is also typical. In the 1600 years, the Turks were also introduced to Vienna by local escort Thököly. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] There's always this kind of local escort. The congressman goes on to say, "Although I was there last Tuesday afternoon, I don't think he was on time because he's on sick leave. I mean, the mayor's saying he's on sick leave. The congressman says: I hope that is not the case, because if he were on sick leave, this is a suspicious story. And then he continues: 50 million forints is a lot of money, some people don't see that much all their life. Of course, this family also received an additional HUF 58 million. And then there comes a great turn of events in the post, and he says that the village accommodation, which is considered a luxury villa, actually works as a hotel, because these accommodations can be booked on the szallas.hu site, and there were also positive manifestations of the guests who used to be there. He continues: the mayor does not live in this luxury hotel for the time being, but since such an EU project only has to be maintained for five years according to the project, he clearly now anticipates that the company will close in five years and then this mayor's apartment will be. In this fact-finding capacity, all Facebook entries, expensive SUVs, refurbishing roads, these roads lead not to Rome, but to the direction in which these objects were created. So that's the standard of fact-finding. So Zugló's elected representative has been traveling the countryside for many times to make findings and work. What does an immunity committee meet at this hour? This is a private charge, isn't it? Two public figures are arguing with each other. One makes strong statements, and the other, of course, defends himself. He also has these sentences: it's okay to be rich, it's okay to have a fidesz mayor, and he's rich, and he's involved in decisions that he's going to be the beneficiary of, which the mayor denies. European Union funds are obviously decided by the managing authorities, and village mayors are not getting anywhere near it, but this Member is in no way disturbed. Back to our decision, you're on your own. In the case of private accusations, if two public figures are suing, then the Committee on immunity says that the Parliament should defend its own activities, protect the Member's activities, continue his blessed work, so we unanimously decided to propose to Parliament, as always in such a case, that the Member should not suspend his immunity in the given case.
u2023-05-23-43	Thank you, Mr. President. I will ask Ákos Hadházy to make use of the opportunity to speak. Time frame's five minutes.
u2023-05-23-44	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to suspend my immunity. [[Grumble in the ranks of Fidesz.]] This completely impertinent story was of so much use, that a fidesz MEP here in Parliament actually read the facts, and read that another mayor of Fidesz was... not entirely accurate, because he did not receive HUF 50 million for István Eged for his rural accommodation in the cabalab, but also received HUF 15 million for garden cuisine and jacuzzi, so he received a total of HUF 65 million. In fact, he did not read it, but at least here in Parliament, let it be said that he received 50 million forints first on his own fishing lake next to him, and then another 50 million forints on a building with a buffet and information point, but these do not work, while the fishing lake is not public, it cannot be used. So I am very pleased that this has been said in Parliament, partly by Congressman Harghitai. It is a very nice thing to finally have a Fidesz Member present at least part of the facts here in this House. Actually, I'm very happy to see you go on in court, and we'll be able to find out more about this case. Thank you very much. Please suspend my immunity. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Momentum.]]
u2023-05-23-45	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Now it's time for the decision. I would like to remind you that the committee has taken a position that the Member's immunity will not be suspended by the Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of Members of Parliament Ákos Hadházy. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament has not suspended the immunity of Ákos Hadházy by 17 votes in favour, 140 votes against and 6 abstentions. Dear Parliament, In line with our agreed agenda, decisions are now being taken to accept the responses to the interpellations made yesterday. Mr Zoltán Varga, representative of DK, representative of I/3998. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 124 votes in favour, 51 votes against and one abstention. I'm asking you and my esteemed colleagues, if I'm wrong, because I'm reading the numbers from the big billboard right now, you better fix it. Thank you very much. Representative Imre Komjáthi, representative of the MSZP, I/4017. No response was accepted. I'll ask the National Assembly, you'll accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 124 votes in favour, 51 votes against and one abstention. [[11.50]] Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, notary of the Parliament, representative of Jobbik is I/4037. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 122 votes in favour, 50 votes against and one abstention. Mr. President Novak, representative of our country is I/4044. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 123 votes in favour, 8 votes against and 2 abstentions. Congressman Bence Tordai, the representative of the Dialogue is I/4002. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 122 votes in favour, 51 votes against and one abstention. Mr Máté Kanász-Nagy, representative of the LMP, is I/4036. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 123 votes in favour, 51 votes against and one abstention. Mr Zsolt Gréczy, representative of DK, is Mr I/4032. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 124 votes in favour, 51 votes against and one abstention. Mr László György Lukács, leader of the Jobbik faction, is I/4038. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 123 votes in favour, 51 votes against and one abstention. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! I thank you for your cooperation, and we have reached the end of your decisions. We're taking a two-minute technical break. (Sunning: 11.52 11.58) President: Dr. János Latorcai Notes: Attila Gelencsér and Dániel Z. Carpathian)
u2023-05-23-46	Fellow Members, please take your seats so that we can continue our work. There's a debate coming up. I would like to ask my fellow Members of the Government and of the opposition, who have remained in the Chamber, to take their place. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill on the order of public works until closure. The government referral is T/3677. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I now give the floor to Minister János Lázár, Minister for Construction and Transport, the rapporteur on the agenda, who will speak here from the platform. Here you go, Minister, 30 minutes on schedule.
u2023-05-23-47	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House of Representatives, Ladies and gentlemen, I promise not to be able to entertain the House on this day's sitting with a proposal that is appropriate to and worthy of immunity. I would like to report to the Honourable Parliament that the Government of Hungary is T/3677. We propose a new law to the Hungarian legislation on the redeployment of public works, in this respect we propose a new law. I would like to inform the Parliament briefly of the reasons for the submission of the law and of the intention to guide the principles on which we have drawn up our bill, the objectives that guide us. It is well known to my fellow Members that, in 2022, when Viktor Orbán formed a government, he became, for the first time since 1990, an independent portfolio of the matters of construction and architecture, and it is clear that in the field of construction, we are attempting to seek the help of legislation in the legislative process to rethink the relevant legal order. In order to do this, I will present two large legislative packages to the Parliament. At the moment, I am proposing to discuss public works, and I will present them in this session, and in the autumn I would like to discuss the Parliament with regard to the law covering the entire Hungarian architectural legislation on Hungarian architecture. These are the two pieces of legislation which, together with the related government regulations and enforcement orders, will redefine the order of public works and in Hungary, I hope, in the field of construction, architecture, and open up a new opportunity. [[12.00]] Today, I would like to talk about the order of public investment, on which the principle arises, whether this is at all relevant to the legislation, because the government has been empowered under the Fundamental Law and under the law governing the operation of the government to use the funds entrusted to it by the budget on the basis of the trust and authority of the taxpayers, on the basis of its own legislation, as has been the case over the last 32 years. A number of legislations were primarily fiscal in nature in order to implement public investment, but since 1990 all governments have been striving to frame the state's investment system and legislate itself. For the first time, with a bill on all Hungarian public works, the government comes before Parliament and asks for a law and its establishment. What purpose do we have? Our most important intention is that, while taking into account local traditions, with the aim of preserving the architectural heritage, while respecting the built environment, a public investment system and order reflecting civil good taste, in which our primary intention is to increase the effectiveness of preparation and investment to a significant extent. On the other hand, the intention of this law is also to guarantee predictability for those involved in construction, obviously with the intention of cooperation. It is an important and new goal that we want to guarantee predictability and sustainability for future generations for budgetary and financial reasons. Here we have a whole new aspect, which has not previously been so clearly foreseen in the legislation for public investment, and this is sustainability and the necessary and minimal cost of public investment with a minimum environmental burden. We want to make public investments with low environmental burden, in which we will also be guided by the intention to add another aspect to the debate in Parliament to support small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. In addition, it is of course important to involve expertise in the process. We completely redefine the access of entrepreneurs to public investment by creating a bill. In fact, we are building a completely new order and system in which we are creating conflict of interest rules, guaranteeing much more competition and providing access to the profession with the intention of creating a new institutional framework. The second item I would like to talk about here is what principles we are doing this on and what principles guide us. The most important thing for public investment is to be sustainable and cost-effective. In this I will ask for the support of my fellow Members. We want to apply the principles of sustainability and cost-effectiveness much more decisively than so far. In this respect, it is very important that the law proposes the creation of a public sector investment concept, and a framework programme for public works, which lists all the plans of the State by 2035, names all the planned investments by the State per wallet and per ministry; since each ministry will have a ten-year obligation to draw up an investment and development list from which the government's investment list will be drawn up. What isn't on this list is not going to happen in the next ten years. I strongly recommend this to the attention of my fellow Members with the mandate of individual representatives. So policy must plan for ten years, in the spirit of predictability, what investments it intends to invest in this country in order to promote the specific field. Obviously, it is also a fundamental principle that state investment law and public investment must respect all the laws relating to cooperation with architecture, settlements and municipalities. The built environment, the protection of green infrastructure and its aesthetic design are also a matter of principle, such as responsible farming and the minimum cost principle, by providing for cooperation between participants. I also think it is very important that the law sets out the right and obligation of opinion as a basic principle. We are proposing the involvement of a number of professional organisations in the legislation. The law guarantees the public, guarantees the control rights of the community. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that such involvement on the part of the profession has never occurred in terms of the profession, when public investment has been discussed so far. Beyond the intentions and principles of the law, there are goals. Its aim is obvious: to be enforceable, predictable and, most importantly, to regulate the entire life cycle of all public investments from the date of the investment plan to prepare, plan, implement, operate and maintain the investment. In the last 32 years, it has not been the case that the State has tried to include its own investments in a complete system. It does so with a view to aligning the tasks of transparency, publicity and public works. I would also like to briefly talk about the economic justification for giving state investment such a focus. Public investment has been crucial in building the country over the past decade, but we live in a region in Europe and in an environment where the investment policy of the state at hand determines the development of each country. We are not part of the lucky West in the sense that not bottom-up organic initiatives have built up institutional structures and increased states, but in Central Europe the state has always played a decisive role in the development of the country. This happened between 1867 and 1914, between 1920 and 1938, but in the period of state socialism it could not have been any different than it has been since 1990. Since 2010, Hungary has spent 28 thousand billion forints on building the country as a public investment. This is 30 percent of all Hungarian investments. So every third Hungarian investment that contributed to economic growth, GDP growth, the improvement of the quality of life and the standard of living of our fellow voters in this country was a state investment. So there is a reason for the legislation or for reason that Parliament must have a controlling role over public investment, beyond its regulatory intention, to provide the whole country with a view to public investment through legislation, as a huge amount of money has been invested in Hungary, with the result of which, regardless of the structure of resources, Hungary has reached 77.5 percent of the average development of the European Union. I would like to draw close to my fellow Members' attention to the fact that, in the midst of intensive parliamentary debate and in addition to high-quality immunity issues, there is little focus on both pro-government and opposition sides to conduct the debate on how to reach at least 90% of the level of development of the European Union, as the Czech Republic is already there. We are at 77.5 percent of the average development of the European Union, with GDP in this, purchasing power, quality of life, lifestyle, infrastructure, everything in it; we are 77.5 percent. [[12.10]] Between 70 and 75 percent, the Czechs reached 90 percent. The question is that Hungary can reach 90-95 per cent over the next ten years and what resources we have for this, whether public investment, state development or withdrawal are EU funds, domestic budgetary, tax-paying resources or loans, and what work we need to do to this end. I think it is very important, in the midst of party political battles, to think about how we can achieve this level and what steps we still need to take. Thus, the magnitude of public investment, its contribution to the country's growth, justifies in itself the need for legislation to be a separate rule. I would also like to point out in my speech that this is the kind of policy that we are currently pursuing here, on the one hand, coercion and, on the other hand, opportunity. The pressure is obviously due to the fact that we need to implement the country's development in a much worse source environment next year. If our aim is to make Hungary one of the most developed countries in Europe, then it is likely that fewer and more scarce resources are now available to achieve this than in the last ten years, so we must build more of it, in a shrinking source environment and under pressure to invest in the state; not only because our voters live in better conditions, but also because it is obvious that these public investments contribute greatly to GDP, economic growth and the labour market. If public investments cease to exist in the next year's budget or the following year, they will see a trace of it and will have an impact on the labour market, economic growth or even tax revenues, in the generated impact. On the other hand, this is not only a coercion, so there is not only a regulatory pressure, but also an opportunity to regulate public investment, given that the magnitude of public investment affects the country's quality of life, affects the environment and affects the corporate sector. I would very much like to underline that we have a very important objective in regulating public investment, so that Hungarians can benefit from the work of Hungarians. Hungarians should benefit from the work of Hungarians, and we intend to do so in such a way that our bill can be described in three words: the bill is patriot on the one hand, and strict on the other, and modern on the third. Patriot economic policy in the bill will mean, in particular, that we are trying to do everything within the framework of the European Union and its rule system to ensure that Hungarian businesses have as much access to public investment as possible. However, this does not mean that anyone who is Hungarian can have anything; it is not enough to be Hungarian, it is also necessary to be good, this is one principle, and the other principle is obviously to benefit Hungarians from the work of Hungarians. To achieve this, I believe in more central management, centralised planning and centralised implementation. The Prime Minister gave space and priority to this principle, when he created the building and investment portfolio, and in this way we built an investment capacity at the wallet for road construction, railway construction, construction and deep construction, in order to eliminate the national infrastructure development agency, in fact we were ministerializing the outsourced agency structure, thus bringing it much closer to the legislative control function of the legislation, everything that needs to be done in this area. It is no secret, however, that when we started legislative work on the new system of public investment in August last year, another thing was needed: in August, the economy came to the point that immediate action was needed because of the change in the war, inflation, cost increases and the external economic environment. One step is the creation of a new structure of the State Investment Act, a regulatory experiment, and the other is the problem of suspensions: we have suspended state investment worth HUF 5000 billion, most of which the Hungarian State will stop now and in the coming days. I have an investment of 3254 billion in 114 projects in my wallet and 184 projects in design, amounting to HUF 203 billion. This is what the result of the war is in Hungary: we have to stop or postpone investments of 5,000 billion, give the wallets the opportunity to fit them into their ten-year development plan, review their practicality and feasibility. I would also like to say that we had to think about what the law on the order of public investment should even apply. I have represented the principle that I have been able to obtain at least the support of the government and, I hope, of the governing parties, that any investment in which budget support, including the size of EU funds, reaches or exceeds 50 per cent, is subject to the law, regardless of who owns it. Of course, there are exceptions. Long negotiations preceded the submission of this bill. Unlike the current Hungarian legislative practices, we have already considered the concept of the law with 25 professional organisations in Hungary; the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Association of Construction Entrepreneurs, the Chamber of Engineers and the Chamber of Architects were outstanding. The substance that is now on Parliament's table today, the general debate of which is about to begin, has the support and agreement of the professional organisations listed, and they, together with me, propose to the Parliament that the regulation be restarted or restarted. Obviously, the construction contractors and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Chamber of Engineers and the Chamber of Architects did the most for the implementation of the law; 900 comments were made. This coordination or this conceptual overview, the discussion of the concept has not triggered and can never replace the fact that we have also put the bill into a social debate; 1000 proposals have been received, about half of which we have adopted. In this context, we continued the most thorough information cooperation and discussions with the local government on how to enforce the aspects of public investment policy in the municipalities, respecting democratic, direct and direct legitimacy. I have made a five-point compromise proposal to the associations of interests, which have already been incorporated into the bill. In fact, we are implementing a consort of cooperation here by including them in the Council of Interest Understanding on Public Investments, as it is not just a regulation, but a new type of regulation, where professional organisations have a crucial role to play. If you look at this law and try to understand its logic, you will see that the law is a framework law, filling the framework law with content and professional regulation in the State Investment Interest Agreement Council, and with the participation of Budapest's capital city, with the participation of local government associations, county-righted cities, with the participation of chambers, with the participation of investment recipients and beneficiaries, the detailed rules that will determine the uploading of the framework with the content will be established. However, it was not only a domestic consultation: I also sought out four Commissioners from the European Commission in order to give their views. The good news is that the proposal is not contrary to a European directive or European legislation, and we also respect the public procurement directive, of course. The bad news is, of course, there are technical and political comments. These discussions are under way, and until the adoption of the law, I would like this to be achieved now, in the spring session, by making a compromise proposal for the European Commission, we would also like to conclude these debates in substance. If you will allow me, I would like to highlight some innovations that will fundamentally redefine the order and system of public investment, and I have just mentioned to you that it is patriot, in a strict and modern spirit. The entrepreneurs asked me what they could expect. I have already said two principles: one is that Hungary wants to build as the Swedish communities do, so the construction will be much better, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, compared to the principle of the last 12 years, which was the principle of the, and now the principle of the, should, should, should, should be applied to public investment. Of course, it will be available to Hungarian entrepreneurs, and it will remain for the state after clarification of previous principles. What is the most important change is the Public Investment Framework Programme, which will be a public list, as I just said. The second point is the State Investment Stakeholder Council, which takes its decision by a four-fifths majority. It is a company organised from absolute professional organisations and civil society, which, however, sets out the detailed rules, such as the system of construction and investment processes or the system of design services, which will include technical parameters, competitive conditions and design specifications. So in a modern democracy, I think that self-regulation should be given to professions, which is why we organise chambers, and that is why Parliament regularly adopts the legislative proposal of Chambers for their own chamber membership. I think it is extremely important that, in the field of construction, in the field of public investment, actors should have an area of self-regulation, which is why the State Investment Stakeholders Council is set up, and that is why it will establish the detailed rules. What is going to be a serious innovation, and what I am trying to do with all my strength, is that in Hungary, after the entry into force of the law, an investment can only be launched with an export plan and after the authorisation procedure has been carried out. In the last 12 years or in the last 20 years, it has not been fashionable for the local government, government, Fidesz and opposition worlds to insist that the investment should start with an export plan. The haste, haste, social pressure, compliance with elections, the necessity of spending money because of GDP growth has always shortened the period of preparation, reflection, consideration, which is the most expensive thing. [[12.20]] If an investment is not thought out, it is not well designed, it is not well prepared, the community of voters will pay the price in all respects in terms of usability and sustainability. Therefore, we will insist that the procurement procedure can only be opened with an export plan, after the completion of an authorisation procedure, i.e. with an export plan and an unpriced budget. This means a complete termination of today's system. Investment will obviously slow down, as it will take time to plan and prepare an investment; more time to think about it; it will be necessary to involve the future operator in the preparation phase, who will operate it; and the costs of operation and sustainability should appear at the planning stage. I have learned, in the midst of ten years of mayorship and twelve years of politics in Budapest, that building is very easy, it is much more difficult to maintain, for generations after us, the maintenance of buildings and infrastructure developments that we have built will be a number of dilemmas and challenges. I would also like to inform the Parliament that, in the spirit of strictness, we will apply new public procurement criteria. What does that mean? If the law is put into effect, if it goes through legislation and I can convince the European Commission that the law is compliant with directives and legislation, then we can introduce the principle in public procurement that a bid for Hungarian public investment is not an offer, which means that a valid public procurement requires at least two valid offers. This will eliminate all single-offer procurement. I would also like to add that we have looked at the practices of 26 EU Member States in investment. Of the 26 Member States of the European Union, Germany was the most examined, the Member States separately, and the German rail procurement practice separately. Basically, we have found several precedents to stick to the export plan, not everywhere to impose multi-offer procurement, I would add, in about six or seven countries in Europe, that an offer is not an offer, and we have also found several examples of the conclusion of public procurement procedures. What I would like to assert is that a tender is not an offer in the course of public procurement; we are publishing the non-business secret offer of the successful tenderer, a completely new system in Hungary, so that all numbers will be public and accessible to competitors and, of course, taxpayers; and, on the other hand, in the course of the procurement procedure, the subjective aspects of the selection set out in the negotiating board will be beyond the current objective criteria. Today, the strongest way to win public investment is to make the cheapest offer. This will not be enough in the future, not the cheapest, but the best offer. I also think that it is very important to evaluate the best offer of what environmental impacts, what pollution, what CO2 emissions, what transport is being done, how far the workforce is being brought, and how much damage is being caused. The European Union and developed EU Member States have explicit guidelines and practices on how to help local entrepreneurs. So I do not want the Parliament and the government to accept the dogma that patriot economic policy cannot be pursued, because local entrepreneurs cannot be put in a position. That's what they do all over Europe. Only one Hungarian company has not yet been seen building a road in Germany, and it is not customary for a Polish company to build a road in France, which is due to finding, in the context of EU legislation, legitimate and legal subjective criticisms that allow local entrepreneurs to benefit from either labour mobility, environmental load, pollution, recycling of the materials used, greening, using local labour. This does not mean that we will accept any offer from local entrepreneurs, there will be a lot more tasks and responsibilities for local businesses and Hungarian businesses, they will have to invest much more preparatory work in this, but it will be worth it, because this will enable us to implement the principle of. I would also like to say to the honourable House that there is obviously going to be a great debate on public procurement procedures, because I would also like to insist that subjective criticism criteria be applied in order to avoid further debates and that the law applies detailed rules on the criteria for criticism and the procedure for criticism. I would like to say that the law will regulate the types and stages of public works beyond intention, principles and purpose; it will make a detailed proposal; it will describe the actors involved in public investments; it will also propose to the Parliament within the framework of the regulation to clarify the rules of conflict of interest; we consider it important that the aspects of training and education should appear; the system of government decision-making for public works, which is not customary at all, will be governed by law, increasing transparency, accessibility and guaranteeing that all our fellow Members, legislation, are ready and able to control the 10-year public investment programme. I also think it is important that, in this context, we will also achieve by selecting the designer, the design process, the design documentation, the definition of the procedure for selecting the contractor, the definition of the content structure of the export contract, the creation of buildings of higher quality, because of the better regulation, a more thorough overview and preparation. I would like to say here that today the Hungarian construction industry is subject to unfair debates because of the cost increases, inflation and changes in the external social conditions that characterize the world today, we would like to settle them with model contracts. So the whole process will be regulated, there will be very little room for personal considerations, subjective decision-making considerations. We will also ensure quality assurance, dispute resolution and, of course, the possibility of redress, as well as the introduction of transitional rules. I would like to ask the legislature to examine the adoption of this law with its intention and opportunity that public investment has a major social interest, since it is crucial for the construction of the state and the country. Understand the legislation that the government intends to build more of less. We want to build it better and better. Obviously, this is also a process of changing culture, which changes the whole order of investment, system, changes the role, place and responsibility of the contractors. The Hungarian construction industry is under the influence of this law, since the Hungarian construction industry is one of the largest, if not one of its biggest customers, the Hungarian state itself will undergo a complete modernisation, a transformation, a change of competitiveness, and we will force it out and motivate them. And there will be a change of culture not only in this respect, on the line of construction contractors, but also in terms of the state, municipality and all other community investors and investments, which is another stage in a civilization process in the 150-200-year history of public investment. I ask the Parliament's support for the adoption of the law. Several factions have been consulted in the past period. I am ready to consider sensible amendments, to accept them, but to pursue the fundamental objective of a patriot state investment policy, which is rigorous and transparent, but modern, and I would like to insist on improving the conditions of competitiveness for the country. I call for the support of all parliamentary factions regardless of party standing. Thank you very much, Mr President, and my fellow Members, for making this speech possible. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-23-48	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear House, Fellow Members! The main speaker's speeches will now take place in a 15-15-minute time frame. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Gyula Siberényi. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-23-49	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill before this House puts the system of public works on a new footing and unifies the system of public works. Its aim is to increase the efficiency of investment implementation, to provide adequate legal, professional and budgetary guarantees to investment participants, to further strengthen and consolidate the public organisation system involved in the implementation of public works in order to bring Hungary's general justification for the legislative proposal before the House to the forefront of Europe by 2030. The Ministry of Construction and Transport was established in December 2022 in order to focus government and professional governance in one hand, which is a key guarantee of the efficiency and effectiveness of investments. In addition to putting the investment system on a new footing and unifying it, the new Public Investment Act creates new opportunities for representatives of the profession, and ultimately opens a new chapter in the creation of a stronger Hungary, closer to the most developed countries in the European Union. [[12.30]] The aim of the draft law is to adjust the development to the budget; it puts more for less; it prevents unnecessary or unsustainable investments from taking place. Investments need to be planned and built more rationally and economically sustainable investments should be made in order to achieve long-term energy efficiency and cost optimisation. It is important to emphasise that it will enable stronger market protection and ensure that environmental aspects and sustainability and operational aspects are implemented throughout the investment life cycle. It controls investments in a more planned and more controlled way, twice as measured, once cut, along the principle; it makes market conditions more predictable and provides long-term returns to the players in the sector. In addition, particular attention should be paid to the implementation of climate targets, high quality, cost-effectiveness and the volume of construction. Two types of public works are investments for public works and for the implementation of the specific type of works. It lays down the rules of procedure for investments by type, on the one hand it lays down detailed rules for public works and, on the other hand, specific provisions for investments in specific types of works are laid down in a separate chapter. It defines the two stages of public works, the preparatory and implementation phases and the specific activities that belong to each stage. The Minister shall operate a publicly available cost information and product technical information system in order to monitor and transparent the costs associated with public works and the construction products to be installed. The bill provides for the possibility of providing the property necessary to carry out the public works. Monitoring committees should be set up as advisory bodies to monitor public works. The Chairs of the Monitoring Committees are the Ministers of Trade, and the Minister is co-chair in each case. The provision temporarily ensures ownership of the Ministry in order to carry out the public works. The right of the municipality to property is not prejudiced by the provision. The Ministry shall exercise exclusively the right to exercise the ownership rights of the builder over the property specified in the agreement for the purpose of achieving the objective of the investment, as from the date set out in the agreement on the opening of the public works, in the case of the explicit and voluntary contribution of the owner to that purpose. The right to be entered in the real estate register as a new type of right includes the ownership rights set out in the Civil Code by not having the right to dispose of or burden on the property concerned. This right shall be conferred on the Minister until the work area of the works concerned by the public works has been transferred by the contractor to the Ministry, but not more than the time fixed in the agreement. In the case of investments in state-owned real estate, the ownership of the Ministry shall cease to be exercised by law after the technical transfer-over of the works resulting from the investment and shall transfer the investment carried out to the new, designated owner. This is a new legal institution, which is not unknown in Hungary's legal history. It was applied to a German sample in the 1920s and is now being introduced again, adapted to today's requirements. In practice and in business, it often arises that there is a need for a right that permanently separates the owner of the bodywork from the owner of the plot, even if it does not apply to the whole of the property, but only to part of it. It does not require a building alone, as whoever acquires this right will be entitled to create a building, a building or an artifact. It's a real-life right, that is, more than one obligation, a lease agreement. Marketable, which may be transferred by the owner of the building right, may be subject to a pledge. This is most similar to the right to benefit, except that the law of the building is not related to a specific person. It may be limited to a fixed period of up to 50 years, while it may be limited in several respects, so it gives the parties great freedom to conclude an agreement. It can be suitable for multifunctional areas that are normally unfit for traffic. As an interest-sharing forum for public works, they shall establish and lay down the members and responsibilities of the State Aid Council. The Council's work will involve professional representative organisations more than ever in the future and will bring them closer than ever to the legislative process of the detailed rules governing their profession. The Council is a forum for proposing, consulting and consulting public investment, composed of 20 professional organisations and taking decisions by a four fifth majority. Its main tasks include the development of a system of construction processes and design services, the definition of cost increases, the definition of technical equivalence rules, the production of contract models, the establishment of an evaluation system for entrepreneurs, and the proposal for selection criteria for public procurement and their evaluation system in order to meet the expectations of green criteria and high added values. Dear Parliament, In addition, it is important that the procurement procedure for the selection of the contractor for public works can only be initiated if the construction documentation approved by the builder is available on the basis of a final construction permit. The itemised unpriced budget and the winning budget are public. The procurement procedure for the selection of the contractor shall be opened only if the execution documentation, based on a final building-creation permit, including an unpriced itemised budget approved by the builder is available. The contracting authority shall make publicly available the part of the tender submitted by the successful tenderer which does not affect the business secret, including the specific budget charged. The draft law also reflects environmental aspects. In the procurement procedure for the selection of the contractor, the assessment of tenders shall, inter alia, give an advantage to separate collection of construction waste and construction packaging material, the proportion of raw materials used, prepared for reuse or derived from recycled waste, and to the lowest possible aggregate CO2 emissions based on the carbon footprint calculation method. It also ensures competition because the procedure is ineffective if at least two tenders have not been submitted within the time limit for the submission of tenders. There is no result if the offers substantially exceed the estimated value; in this case, the Ministry does not declare a result. After the investments, the builder shall assess the designer and the contractor on the basis of an objective and proportionate evaluation system using a five-stage scale, which may be used in the future in the selection process. The bill also sets out in detail the conflict of interest rules applicable to those involved in the preparation and execution of public works. Those involved in the preparation and execution of the public works shall be independent of each other, with the exception of persons having a working relationship with the Ministry, neither in relation to work nor in any other legal relationship affecting or affecting the impartial performance of their duties, nor in relation to any joint ownership or related business relationship. In relation to investments, conflicts of interest will be verified by the Ministry on the basis of a sampling procedure and for notification. Dear fellow Members, The bill before us transforms, unifies and puts the system of public works on a new footing, learning about and using the experience of the past period and international practice. It fulfils the legislator's current role and responds to the real processes; if they endanger some social interest, it intervenes with its own instrument, legislative amendment. It increases the efficiency of public works and provides adequate legal, professional and budgetary guarantees for investment actors. For this reason, I ask that, like the Fidesz fraction, you support the bill. Thank you for listening.
u2023-05-23-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the DK Group was Gy. Mrs Erzsébet Németh, who will make her speech here on the stand. I'll wait for Congresswoman to get up on the stand. [[It's happening.]] Thank you very much. Congresswoman, you have the floor. [[12.40]]
u2023-05-23-51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, The proposal re-regulates the entire life cycle of public works, from preparation to planning and implementation to operation and maintenance, with particular attention to cost-effectiveness and value-based considerations. In a normal country where social and institutional control functions reliably over the government, the division of power is guaranteed by law, and the actors of the state do not play it with creative interpretation of law, there could be meaning to this bill. But not in today's Hungary. The government's proposal is only about how to better centralize and direct investments that have, so far, escaped to Lőrinc Mészáros, the Prime Minister's son-in-law, his rope friend, or to the powers of yachting the foreign minister. The government can exempt any investment from compliance with the rules as proposed. And if that wasn't enough, the minister could also determine any exemption from the laws of any investment that would make the law pointless. This bill is also a serious attack on local governments, as their powers can be evacuated by the government at any time. It could at any time override local rules in order to carry out investments that are priority for the national economy. One of the most controversial points in the proposal is that the new law would refer State and municipal investments to the exclusive responsibility of the Ministry of Construction and Transport, provided that at least half of their total value is derived from State resources or EU aid. So I ask the majority of the honourable members of the government, what source of investment would be made by the systematically bled-out local authorities for 13 years. In recent years, there have been only a few municipalities with enough resources to provide more than 50 per cent of themselves to carry out a project as a result of a conscious government policy against municipalities. These must be the Fidesz majority settlements. Although I hear there are already several Fidesz-led settlements where the situation is nowhere near as rosy. This step would in practice mean that the majority of municipal investments would go to the Ministry, in addition to ensuring significant ministerial overweight in terms of supervision. Several actors and professional organisations of the Hungarian municipal system have made sharp criticism of the proposed amendment. The TÖOSZ, which is considered by the municipal association to be unprovoked opposition, is also unwarranted that the municipal works would be virtually terminated, as there is none, and due to the lack of resources of the municipalities, it is not expected that there will be municipal works in Hungary today, where 50 percent of the estimated value of the investment would not be exceeded by the central budgetary or non-direct European resources used. We agree with them, i.e. TÖOSZ, that the relevant provision of the bill for local authorities should contain a threshold, depending on the size of the settlement, where the municipal investment is not covered by the law. Nor does the text of the bill and the justification for the reason for the extension of the scope of the bill to local authorities. In accordance with Article 32 (1) of the Fundamental Law, I quote: "The local government exercises the rights of the owner in respect of municipal property within the framework of the law in the context of the administration of local public affairs. The bill is 12. §2 expressly provides for the limitation of the municipality's ownership. Obviously, it is clear that the local government can exercise ownership rights within the legal framework, but according to DK, the bill further destroys the substance of the local government compared to the legislation in force. In Mr. Minister's exposé, he referred to the preservation of local traditions as one of the important conditions. I think that this bill goes against it entirely. Another problem is that there are no investment plans in the tender system in advance, and it is not possible to see which plans will win. Without resources, local authorities cannot prepare an investment. Organisations fighting for an efficient and transparent spending of public funds also found it a problem that a total of eight days were available to submit comments. Although the social consultations introduced under EU pressure have so far had no particular result, social proposals have been swept off the table by the government without any particular justification. For example, it would have been worthwhile to process some things as case studies, large public investments where the criterion of efficient, transparent management of public funds has been damaged, and to explore the reasons for this in detail, thus supporting legislation. It is also a problem that the social reconciliation of this bill does not take place at the same time as the modification of the law on construction, since the two laws have a significant impact on each other and sometimes even apply parallel definitions. Based on the experience of recent years, it would have been good to consider not building unused, unsustainable public investment, far above or semi-finished of the planned budget. The bad examples are many: semi-finished Biodom, House of Sors, Lake Fertő investment, stadiums supported by continuous state support, the Ministry of Finance building, where only four years after the start of the investment, an impact analysis was carried out, a significantly more expensive Opera renovation, the Liget project or the never-ending Shaman drum case, the establishment of the Expo Pavilion in Milan in Hungary. The cases are linked by over-subsidisation, the strong political and fidesz interest groups have lobbied new funds for investment despite social costs, and there was no point of justification where the public should have taken account of the justification, necessity of the investment and compliance with the state aid development plans. In the vast majority of the state, it has turned a blind eye to this, when investments have asked for new additional funding. Even more outrageous, however, is the fact that the power groups representing the great lobbyist are essentially given a banack mandate to spend a large amount of aid for development, after having spent this on unthinkable, luxurious developments at the last penny. Examples of this are the exclusive constructions of the Hungarian Academy of Arts or the complex of the Lakitelek Folk College, which is constantly expanding with wine cathedral, golf course and hotel. However, the solution to these situations is not the central management of public investment, but that an investment can only be granted State aid if it passes through certain public certification points, is known for its social justification and it is shown that its social usefulness exceeds its cost and receives an opinion from the stakeholders and the municipalities concerned, in line with the urban and regional plans. Dear House, With the remaining practice of individual support for and emphasis on investments, the proposal maintains the current situation in which government back-line investments can be preferred to support schemes linked to traditional sectoral policy objectives without the need for public certification. There is no piece of legislation that would extend the scope for citizens and civilians to invest by the State. Unfortunately, the bill on the order of public investment does not regulate real public works because of the legal exceptions and the maintenance of national investment, but defines investments as public works where there is no added value to centralisation through the intervention of the Ministry. Under the current definition, the scope of the Act covers all investments whose value already exceeds that national procurement threshold and is achieved by 50 per cent or from a central budget or from EU funds. Therefore, this may include building a local government nursery from the recovery and resilience facility, and also the creation by a private company of tourist or other economic investment through State aid. [[12.50]] However, it is an exception to really large-scale public investments, which are covered by a separate law in the current practice, which can be essentially anything, are of particular national importance or are carried out by institutions organised into a trust of public interest. Let's not forget, there have been thousands of such properties in recent years. Thus, the new procedure and control rules would not apply to the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, Paks II, the Liget project, the Budapest athletic stadium, the expansion of the southern circular line and the Göd or Debrecen battery plant, as well as the related public investments, investments in Lake Fertő and many other investments that clearly reflect the Hungarian state's ideas. The above definition and the specific scope of the law also renders other points of the bill unviable and problematic. In the case of investments that are not specifically placed on public order, it would only be apparent, if appropriate, after the cost estimate and the availability of the resources, that the scope of the law at all applies to the investment. If, on the other hand, it was covered by the law, it should have been included in the policy sectoral concepts and framework programme in advance, thus creating a circularity in the system. In addition, for example, for municipal projects from EU funds, a consortium partner from the Ministry would make effective decision-making and administration significantly difficult and it would not be clear who the final beneficiary of the grant contract would be. In Mr. Minister's exposé, he talked about how this bill will make it effective for the state and I would add that then the local government investments will be made. Dear Minister, Dear House, I have a very good concrete example for that. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: In its district, sewer construction was planned in the previous municipal cycle. Fidesz was the district council, Fidesz was the capital's leadership, Fidesz was the government. The National Development Office has spent years on public procurement and its publication, and at the very end of the year, it canceled this public procurement, thus losing the EU's resources, for example, under Article XVII of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This channel investment could have been carried out in the district. You've already tried this method in-house didn't work. The National Development Office has been terminated, merged into the Minister's Ministry, and is now seeking to extend this practice to more and more local government investments. Similarly, we find the section of the law on ownership rights, which provides an opportunity to bring ownership rights to the Ministry, but does not clarify what is happening to the grant contracts. For example, the Ministry of Succession could not have been a candidate entity, but as a builder it would be a user of the aid. In what way and with what accounting will the non-central budget or EU source of resources be included in the costs of the investment, or what happens to the type of renovations where the institution should be operated? To complement the above: Indeed, investments on public orders should not be exempted from the scope of the law, as this would undermine transparency and predictability. The use of the status of investments of national importance has been completely out of control in recent years. The government can assign such a status to certain investments without any control, and in doing so it can override other regulations or local construction regulations. It is no coincidence that many scandals and social conflicts are linked to this category. Dear House, I have already said that this proposal is a deep violation of the autonomy of local governments and raises constitutional issues. In the case of 3150 municipalities and counties, in the context of changing conditions, a central body is unable to collect these investments in a national framework programme for 15 years, even in the light of the design documentation. And now I'd like to speed up a little bit, because my time is almost up. Minister said sustainability was very important, compared to this, there is no environmental member of this particular stakeholder council. This is also important for the project organisation because the batteries in Göd, Debrecen or Győr are examples that indicate that climate and environmental protection, safe drinking water and clean air are not important for this government. On this basis, the Democratic Coalition faction does not support and reject this bill. Thank you for listening.
u2023-05-23-52	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-05-23-53	Thank you, Mr. President. If this had been a time-frame debate, I would have given you a few seconds, Gy. Erzsébet Németh, because Klára Dobrev and his shadow government did not speak, is such a mandatory element in the DK speeches. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: I'll tell you in a comment, don't forget! Thank you for letting me know.]] I'm afraid I missed that. I would have liked to have given you time to do that. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, We could hear from my fellow Member, DK, a speech that looked down on Hungary and the Hungarian construction industry to the extreme, which, I think, does not help the situation of this law, nor on the common issues that we should discuss here in Parliament, because he started this speech by saying that it could be even a good law, not in Hungary, because Hungary is so bad, things are working badly in Hungary. There was such a one and a half minute insult in Hungary in the speech of the congresswoman. Madam Congresswoman, I would like to remind you that this law was tabled on 19 April. So just because there wasn't enough time to read it, there wasn't enough time to understand what the owner and the builder had, and so on, I think that since April 19th it would have been possible. So we think that this law, as Minister said, is a framework law. Here it is important what will be the implementing regulations and what will be the government regulations, ministerial decrees, which will fill this framework with content, because if this law is passed by Parliament, this framework is not only a great opportunity, but also a great responsibility for the Ministry to fill it with what content, how the implementing regulations will be created. But it can still be said for the framework that this is a significant milestone in the history of domestic public works, as it puts the public investment system on a new footing and unifies it. The aim of the bill is to increase the efficiency of the implementation of public works while providing adequate legal, professional and budgetary guarantees to the investment actors in order to ensure the predictability of these legal relationships. The proposal re-regulates the entire life cycle of public works, from preparation, planning, implementation to operation and maintenance, with particular attention to the principles of cost-effectiveness and value-benefit approach. It is important to note, ladies and gentlemen, that the submission of the bill has been preceded by extensive professional consultation and a lengthy and thorough examination of public investment practices in EU Member States. Since August 2022, the Ministry of Construction and Transport has asked for the opinion of 25 organisations on the design of the concept, and 900 proposals have been received in the order of magnitude. Furthermore, as I indicated, the proposal was accessible and accessible to all interested parties, since it was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 April, more than a month ago, and since then, on the National Assembly website, this version, which we are negotiating, could be viewed, studied, understood and even expressed a position on it. Taking this into account, it is clear that the new Hungarian Investment Law proposal follows EU practice and enforces the conditions of the circular economy, CO2 emission reduction standards and the issue of the qualified supplier list. I'd like to stop here for a second. Congresswoman talked a lot about municipalities. It was striking to me that the former deputy mayor of Budapest was attacking the investments in Budapest. He was criticizing the Opera House, Biodom, the Liget project, the Ministry of Finance, the location of the World Athletics Championship. So, as Deputy Mayor of Budapest, someone is attacking the renovation of the Opera as Deputy Mayor of Culture, adding a small color to this story. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: The problem will be expensive, Congressman, it will be expensive!]] I would also like to point out to the congresswoman that the municipal budget is part of the public finances. Don't tell me there's state investment and local authorities involved. Well, the municipal budget is part of the public finances, honourable Member. It's a big umbrella for the state. The Minister did not say a government, but a state, honourable Member, a very important difference. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Do you remember how in 2011 we consolidated the municipalities from a debt of HUF 1400 billion? How could this $1,400 billion in debt come together, honourable Member? Because you have devoted noticeably much time to your speech, and you have not even had time for the shadow government to deal with the funding of municipalities and the capacity of local authorities to invest. Before 2010, you did one thing: you constantly increased the tasks of the municipalities while constantly reducing your funding. [[13.00]] Forints 1,400 billion of debt came together in Hungary's municipalities because you forced them to take out operational loans from the municipalities [[Zoltán Vajda and Sándor Szabó intervene.]] ; it is not investments, it is not built from it, but for operational purposes, because it is necessary to pay for the basic services. Because what did you do? The state handed over tasks to the municipalities, but failed to provide funding, which is why the municipalities had to be pulled out of that debt trap for nearly HUF 1,400 billion. If you're taking a lot of money, Congresswoman, that's for sure because that's what you've done to the municipalities. Now, if you look at the honourable Member, in the last 12 years, municipalities have had the opportunity to invest from their own resources, EU funds, state resources, as a joint investment, the municipality has provided everything, an investor has come to an industrial park and has built a plant, and so on, because improvements have been made, honourable Member. Therefore, to say that the municipalities did not have any opportunity to carry out these investments is, of course, not true. Specially charming, since you, the left-wing Budapest City Council, have an EU seal paper that you are connected to the most corrupt Hungarian investment of all time, the case of Metro 4. They have a European Union, colourful, smelly, sealed certificate that the most corrupt investment of all time in Hungary is linked to the left-wing city leadership, the case of Metro 4. Unfortunately, with such a past, we cannot accept lectures, Madam honourable Member, especially when you start speaking with the idea that this law could be good if it were not submitted in Hungary. Well, we would like to raise Hungary, honourable Member, in Hungary we would like to invest in the interests of the people living in Hungary, which is in the interests of the Hungarian economy, which is not ugly, ugly, and foreign to the countryside, and which is indeed a way of speeding up the European Union's catch-up in the coming years, as we have seen in recent years that we have been moving forward with kills. I have already talked about the consultation that preceded the submission of the bill and that it has been available on the National Assembly's website for a month, so that everyone could see and watch it, but the present proposal includes the establishment of the State Investment Stakeholder Council as a forum for the reconciliation of public works. With the establishment of the Council, professional interest organisations will be more involved in the future than ever before, and will be closer to the legislative process of the detailed rules governing their profession than ever before. Interestingly, the honourable Member did not say a sentence about what an interest-sharing forum was set up and how people in their profession would be able to get involved in decision-making. The State Investment Stakeholder Council is the proposing and consulting professional stakeholder forum for public investment, which consists of twenty professional organisations and takes its decisions by a four-fifths majority. On the basis of the bill, the first public framework programme for public works to be adopted on the basis of the bill, based on policy sectoral concepts and sectoral investment plans, will also be established and will cover the programming period until 31 December 2035. It was particularly interesting when the congresswoman pointed out that there are no concrete proposals for local authorities and actors in the law, and how they will know what they will develop in the coming years, what they will build in the coming years, what investments will be possible. The proposal, Madam honourable Member, for what and how much resources will be made is not the job of this bill. There is also a need to address this, it is very important that you have brought this subject here, but it is not in this bill that we need to draw attention to professional proposals and criteria, and there are obviously separate forums for this, and here we are creating a framework for public investment. The bill lays down very important, clear and clear criteria and principles for public construction. I will then ask my fellow Members, especially from the opposition side, to tell me which criteria your problem is: efficiency, security, transparency, conflict of interest. Which of these is what you do not like, values that you think should not be included in the law? The bill sets out in detail the rules of conflict of interest for those involved in the preparation and execution of public works, including technical verification requirements. Public works are based on the implementation system of the so-called building information model, the BIM-based technical building information model. The bill also states that the contracting authority shall disclose the part of the tender submitted by the successful tenderer which does not concern the business secret, including the specific budget of the tenderer, which has been priced. From a quality assurance point of view, it is important to establish an objective and proportionate new evaluation system in which the builder evaluates the designer and the contractor in relation to the application of a five-stage scale after investments. How good it would be to have such transparency, for example, in the investment of the Chain Bridge, honourable Member [[An uproar in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]] There wouldn't be billions flying around, plus all sorts of suspicious cases. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh intervenes.]] The current bill therefore sets Hungary's construction concept on a qualitatively new basis, where investments are more well-designed, rationally built, energy efficient and sustainable in the long term. The bill represents an important step forward for the domestic construction industry, which employs more than 400 thousand people. Thank you for the persistent work of professional organisations, thank you for the debate, for the opportunity of exposé. The KDNP fraction will support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-23-54	Thank you, Congressman. I welcome my fellow Members and colleagues who assist us in our work. I now give the floor to Zoltán Vajda, the lead speaker of the MSZP group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-05-23-55	Dear Parliament, With the bill before us, forced and unreasonable centralisation will continue. This time they want to make a single ministry the builder of every budget and EU-funded construction from Sopron to Zahony. The Ministry led by Minister János Lázár will also be responsible for designing the structures, selecting the contractor and the technical inspector, managing the entire project management and taking over the completed structures. The bill places the investor and the subsequent operator in a purely tip-off role, who may be at the same time as the decisions and give an opinion, but will not have a meaningful say in the decisions. Dear Colleagues, This bill fits perfectly into NER's social perception and power system. They want to control everything from one center, manually, and they want to decide every question with a power word. Because it is now evident that you do not consider the municipalities to be partners, but the public authorities are losing their independence of action. The public organisation system also removes actors with decision-making autonomy capable of expressing different professional and social interests. Independent responsible action and cooperation between different actors will be replaced by the slavish implementation of instructions from management centres with full power; this has happened in education, health and most areas of public administration. So we can ask ourselves, what finally existed was their centralization mania quoting socialist systems. Do you really believe in the government that the grouping of all the decision-making powers of each area into a single gigantic bureaucratic centre will result in a higher quality, more efficient and more economical provision of tasks? Because the experiences of education, nationalization of health care and their total centralization really convinced you of that? Because I think the answer is probably no, because it can hardly be assumed that the creators of these government proposals would not see that you would not understand what is going on in Hungary, because every Hungarian family itself experiences the terrible consequences of centralization policy in the health and education situation. You should see this in government circles, even if you're going to send your children to a pay-per-view elite school, or, let's say, private clinics. If nothing else, the teachers, students, parents, doctors are facing increasingly desperate protesting actions and enormous fluctuations that threaten the functioning of the entire sectors. So if it is true that government decisions are not taken by unprepared actors who are not separated from reality, then they cannot believe that this overworked centralisation will result in an efficient and high level of responsibilities. [[13.10]] The only rational explanation of total centralization is that Viktor Orbán and his circle can directly control any matter. Any counter-arguments are forbidden. The central will and the economic interests of NER-elite must be unimpededed. Compared to this, it is irrelevant what social interests are damaged, and it seems that the spectacular low-flying of public services can also be a consequence for you, Fidesz. These consequences can also be seen in the case of works, which the preparatory bodies of the bill are well aware of. The model now proposed has been essentially tested by the Orbán government in the 2014-20 programming period. The operational programme for environmental and energy efficiency was more commonly known as the COHEP, and now a significant part of the projects carried out in this context have been centralised along the same logic as the bill that has just been submitted. The National Development Programme Office is known to have made investments in sewerage, sewage treatment, water quality improvement and waste management. The National Development Strategy Institute was tasked with investing in energy efficiency. The latter tasks were transferred to BMS Sport Közhasznú Kft. from 1 January 21. The municipalities that won the KEHOP programme were obliged to conclude a consortium agreement with these public companies in a government decree. On the basis of the consortium agreements, public companies have prepared and issued public procurement on behalf of the municipalities, but without the municipalities, they have performed project management and technical audit tasks, and they are also carrying out their tasks now, because, to shame, part of the KEHOP projects are still under way, even though the commitments of the grant agreement should be fully implemented by the end of this year. But the public organizations were unable to solve the tasks quickly and effectively. Well, the activities of NFP and NFSI must have been a great help to smaller municipalities, which do not have an apparatus to perform similar tasks. It's totally fine. However, in the case of complex metropolitan projects, the model was very spectacularly ineffective. In Budapest, some projects were, of course, sabotaged directly at higher pressure by the NFP. The most spectacular in this respect was the decision-making of the metropolitan sewerage and sewage treatment projects. The Metropolitan leadership that took office in 2019 was confronted with the blockage of projects. Moreover, the government did not deny this fact, and even a number of promises were made that the execution of the projects in the capital would be returned to the Municipality of Budapest. Finally, of course, this government promise was not fulfilled, and in August 2021, the Municipality of Budapest was forced to hand over the project documents prepared at its own expense to the State Operating Company, this particular NFP. The NFP published calls for tenders at the end of 2021 and at the beginning of 22 and withdrew the calls for tenders in June 2022 following multiple push-ups of the deadline for submission, without, of course, informing the City Council in advance. Well, how else, right? [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It's not the law!]] The reason for the withdrawal or the further steps of the implementation of the project has been officially communicated to the Municipality of Budapest, despite repeated requests to do so, to this day. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It's not in the law!]] This is an open violation of the consortium contract. Due to the illegal and inexplicable action of the state project management company, the development of the South-Pest Waste Water Treatment Plant and the Budapest Central Waste Water Treatment Plant could not be achieved, and thus failed its sewerage projects, such as the III. District IV District XII The Parties agree to cooperate with each other in the implementation of this Agreement. district and my particularly painful constituency, the XVI. district. By the way, the biggest loss is XVII. It was a district where the government prevented the construction of a new main collection channel that was essential for the development of the district. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Too bad it's not in the law!]] Overall, Budapest failed a project worth nearly HUF 17 billion because of the public authorities, which could have served to further develop Budapest and protect our surface and underground waters. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: What about the law?]] All this for what? Financial considerations? I think we can rule that out, because 90 percent of the costs would have been financed by the European Union we all loved. Right? We can also reject the explanation that they would have decided on a political basis, since, let's say, Fidesz-led XVII. district, or also fidesz XXII. Circumference, or the Fidesz-led one year from now, will be a change here in the 16th century. The district was most sensitive to this decision. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Are you resigning? Defiance from the pro-government ranks.]] Dear Colleagues, Actually, there's no rational reason to explain what happened, and that's probably the scariest, because someone in the Ministry is putting it on paper, isn't it, Minister? That's no, no, never. That's what you write, isn't it? And these projects could fail without explanation or obvious reason. This proves the arbitrary nature of the model that you now want to extend to all public-funded constructions in the whole country. In addition, the proposed bill provides for much more centralisation than has been tested so far. Accordingly, the consequences will be much more serious. Investment will be a condition for inclusion in the Public Investment Framework Programme, but the preparation of this will also be an extremely complex, multi-stage process. Moreover, the Framework Programme will only be reviewed annually, and the selection of the designer can only begin. If we compare the work patterns of NFP, NFSI and BMSK with the procedures in the bill, it is good for investments to be made in the 2021-27 programming period until the licensing plans and the selection of the contractor. This could result in a huge loss of resources. Thus, even if the government is able to reach an agreement with the European Union on the payment of development money, although I am increasingly convinced that you will do everything in your power not to agree on the money that goes along with my beloved country, so if you do manage to reach an agreement, although you are trying not to succeed, Hungary may still lose these funds. It is clear that this danger was also observed by the preparatory of the bill, so the government can essentially exclude any investment from the scope of the law, and Minister János Lázár can practically completely override the rules of the law. It can already be enveloped that any investment that is truly important to the government will be covered by the exception. The government is also very careful that the character that is dear to him is not subject to the new rules of rigor. Civil society organisations stuffed with public funds and public trust foundations will not be covered by the new law. If we were naive, then, of course, we could ask the question as to why the exclusion of supported civil society organisations and public-interest trust funds could be justified, if this law really serves to spend public money more effectively. Well, the answer is obvious: this exception cannot be justified. However, this exception also reinforces the assumption that the real aim of the bill is to keep NER's elite hands on all public and public investments, because where Viktor Orbán and his vassal circle are in-house, it is unnecessary to apply the law. Where the recipient of the aid may be outside the scope, this law provides for the possibility of taking control of investments into their own hands. I think that's the real purpose of their law. Therefore, the bill is unacceptable. But this is very painful, and it really hurts because there are several elements in the bill, there are many elements that could be very useful in itself. [[13.20]] For example, the design of the construction information model, the monitoring of investments, the provisions on quality control of raw materials and products, model construction contracts could offer these forward-looking elements as a service and possibly a mandatory service to builders. On this basis, we can propose that the government withdraw this bill and instead draw up a new proposal to ensure good innovations in the current bill as a real public service, but allow it to be introduced not as a mandatory but as a voluntary introduction for municipalities. Because there are good examples, Szeged or the XIII. In the case of a district, good examples can be seen. That's what I wanted to say; I just fit in time. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-05-23-56	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Dániel Z. Kárpát, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group, the notary of the Parliament. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-05-23-57	Mr President, Dear House, From the words I have just spoken, the praise was almost felt in certain areas, but I would like to express my 33-year criticism of the whole state building. As has been said here in a series of rightly, sometimes a little over-excited opposition concerns, it is not just the III. It's a district canal development. I could mention, say, the M0, which specifically concerns my habitat and the future habitat of my family. And I can see that there are decades of investment plans and then experiments that can be declared dead in ashes, and we can also see that for 33 years, no matter how much government color is involved, this system does not change in essence. Overpriced investments, completely unnecessary projects, unrealized but still billions and tens of billions of plans are ahead of us. If someone in this swamp wants to drain and regulate this system, I'll support it. Obviously, it is worth arguing about. Let us commend Minister, because he is here in our midst, this is not every day in a debate of this kind, that the government expert responsible for this is here with us, and that is the management approach he has led, otherwise I think, in the right direction, so that would not be a problem in the world. I would obviously be able to get involved in the seemingly outsidership of civil society organisations, public-interest trust foundations and a lot of other things, but what we need to see is that what Minister said in his introduction is at least as important as the bill before us. This is the 78 percent development measured by Hungary's level of development in the EU, which, as you rightly noted, is 90 in the case of the Czechs, and if we are looking at the Hungarian wage issue, this is why we have organised our wage union concept earlier, in terms of the examination of Hungarian wages compared to a European average, I say that this 78 percent would be a very tolerable and good thing, but unfortunately we are also very far from it. So it's very right, you have to look at how this 90 percent can be achieved, let's say, in terms of wage levels. If I had more hair, it would be on fire to open a pastry shop in Vienna, to catch up with Austria by 2030; so many fooled Hungarian people with similar, otherwise very nice wordings, which, after a while, turns into an irritating mood that we really should be standing on the ground of reality. In terms of construction, too, it is true that I do not think that more promises should be made than they are in this system. I've been telling you for years what toxic animal species single-offer procurements are to this genre. The fact is, of course, it is now being formulated here not to be single-handed, but what will happen to public procurement where there appear to be two starters, where appropriate by means of three, but the ownership circle behind them, or the good allocation of the portfolio, is the same. What do we do when there are two public procurement procedures and someone divides the market among themselves? Ten or fifteen years ago, we could have said that, well, we couldn't really do with that, because by the time we found out about the network behind them and the mergers, they had already decided on these funds, the construction had already started. But I would like to present you with a system that I suggested five years ago in relation to food prices, and now the GVH with the Ministry of Economic Development started to implement years later what we proposed then, not only based on OPTEN, but based on modern company information networks, we could create an online database that could be fully operational, where the various corporate mergers in relation to the common ownership background would be immediately visible and visible. This would be at least as much of a achievement as it would be to say in itself that there should not be a single procurement procedure. It could be a two-way game with the game playing ahead, and we can't support that either. So I think there would be plenty of room for manoeuvre here, and this proposal would start towards completion if it could work in this area. From the Minister's side, it is quite ambitious to force individual wallets, ministries, to plan ten years in advance, not to mention the various kindergarten development projects and others. At the moment, however, we are faced with the fact that budget planning can collapse in six months! Think of it as a budget with an exchange rate of EUR 370, the exchange rate for most of which was above or around 400 forints. And it's just one uncertain factor. I mentioned the example of the M0 ending: it is a perfect proof that these investments cannot be made in many cases because of the curse of the four-year cycles. And let's think about what's going to happen to the ten-year development plan of a wallet. So good thinking in perspective, I support it, but let's have concentric circles here. Let it be stated what can be achieved within a government cycle, what they want, and do not push the responsibility over to the next cycles, because we know the result; I would like to mention M0 once again in this respect. And the budget usually fails in six months, and it's changed a lot. I'm afraid the paper we're about to see will be the same. We should also discuss whether or not a concept of public construction in the field of housing should be a task. At the beginning of the cycle, I was glad that you had this area in part, but housing involves at least three ministries, if we interpret it in an extension, then four. Yet I see that it would be a huge task for the government to clean up the front of housing in the field of public works. Let's check it out. From the number of newly built apartments, my hair doesn't exist again when I read about, say, six months of data about the increase in the number of newly built apartments. But it's grown compared to what? The base is always worth examining. There have been Fidesz government years when less than 8,000 new-built properties have been transferred; this would have allowed for the 450-year exchange of real-estate assets. Now, when it may appear to be around 20,000 and we hope that it will not begin to decline again, we also see that this will replace the real estate stock every 200 years. So we're certainly not moving in a sustainable direction. I see the same thing in the rental market. Here would be a public task: a public housing programme, on the one hand, and there would be a task with an extensive panel renovation programme, especially when we talk about how much energy efficiency has been appreciated in recent years, and there are also successful projects in this regard. And it is also perfectly visible what the 200-250 annual exchange of real estate means, let's say, for a large number of panels in Óbuda or Békásmegyer. The vase of those houses may still stand, but giving us space and opportunity for human and decent housing is a huge question. By the way, I also like to be correct in terms of numbers. When they told me that 5,000 billion public investments would stop, I would say that the money would not necessarily be a problem, but that the plans behind it would be worth examining and remaining at HUF 3000-4000 billion. The fact is that a public-based housing program, if it had been started when we first raised it, would have been about 200 billion forints per year; now it's a little bit more, if not in scale, but a little more. However, I see that the government's revenue in terms of inflation and crisis is here, so there would be plenty of room for manoeuvre for such a concept, so that no matter how much market-wide benefits or life signs of this, these new builders would need to increase 5-10 thousand apartments a year. But what I'm sure you guys would have money and room for manoeuvre in the budget is an assessment of the vacant property stock, and we talked about it earlier. There are 550 thousand properties in Hungary, from which we subtract those in private hands, although I would like to see a bill on the concept of housing agencies there, and I would like to discuss what I think is good about it, and what is unsustainable, let us subtract even the local government-owned ones, because we leave it in the hands of the local authorities, let them decide how to manage the property. [[13.30]] But there are still hundreds of thousands of state real estate stock, which if only a fraction of it is restored to Hungarian life, it can help tens of thousands of young Hungarians to thrive on forced emigration as a rental. We see that for a part of an apartment of an average size, a bank loan would have to be shown, say, a net salary of 400,000 a month. Many young Hungarians are excluded from this possibility. We can argue that there is a construction capacity for one of these and how much labour costs have been lost, but two things are certain, this is perfectly visible: there is a need for a public housing scheme, mainly due to demographic considerations and the aspect of prosperity in the homeland; and the other thing is that it will be more expensive every year and more difficult to implement every year. In addition, every HUF invested here would be paid in four to six years or zero, or would bring revenue to the budget, since we can count on multiplier effects that we would not expect from other investments. It is also obvious that if we build flats in bulk, their treatment should be left to the local authorities, so those who know best about it, but the funding of the costs should be provided by the national budget, since it would obviously be a fool to expect any extra burden from the municipalities. Here, too, if we could bring in an Austrian, German-type, even social-based, point system that favours the nurse, the employee of the education system, and thus the workers of the sectors of national strategic importance, we would again contribute to the prosperity of the homeland. If we were to say that after 4-6-8 years of successful tenantship, the property could be purchased at cost, with a state-supported loan, so that the rent so far would be converted into a sort of repayment, a repayment, then again we could help crowds to thrive in the homeland. As far as this system would go, it's a fraction of what you just put on the table. I'm sure it's less than a tenth of what's in this line of 5,000 billion dollars. There would be space and space for a national-based rental building program, we put it on the table under the name of the concept of. We are waiting, and the detailed rules of this are also known to you, as we have been promoting this in all forums for many years. However, what we see is that there is another area for which you have not thought enough, and this is a panel renovation programme, a building insulation programme that, with a very innovative approach and a fundraising process, would essentially convert the price of the energy saved, so that the one-time citizen would not be able to spend any extra money on the energy efficiency investment which would otherwise be able to reduce the energy costs of his apartment, his condo. These models are fully operational on the European market, and private capital is also present here and there, so we must be very careful not to make a big profit to private capital and not to different investor consortia, but to really save money for Hungary and Hungarian families. What we see is that there is no way to talk about public construction without affecting the fact that there are very few newly built apartments in Hungary, there are very few apartments in Hungary. There would have been resources for public energy efficiency, but the government stopped them in the area of public and public institutions, but they should and could still be extended to help Hungarian families thrive. Without discussing these issues, therefore, this concept cannot be fully assessed, and until we find a satisfactory answer to these questions, it would be very difficult to support this package as it lies before us. Thank you for your attention and patience, Mr President.
u2023-05-23-58	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to István Apáti, the lead speaker of the group of our country. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-05-23-59	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, We are discussing an ambitious and grandiose bill, the importance of which is perhaps only comparable to the law on public procurement and the system of public procurement legislation. There is no debate between us that the success of every investment, whether the success of the smallest or billions of dollars of investment, depends on preparation and planning. If I recall my years before 2010, I can tell you and the Parliament that every working day invested in proper planning and preparation will pay back several times, so here the principles of more and less will prevail, since a considerable amount of time will be saved by proper planning and preparation. What may seem at the beginning as a result of a delay in the implementation of the procedure or of the investment will in fact end up with a positive balance and thus save a significant amount of time. But let us also take a line on some of the regulatory issues or areas that I think should or should still be given more attention to. The first is the design phase, the stage of the preparation of the technical plans, and I note that the financial planning phase, which has become particularly difficult in the last two years because of extreme fluctuations in the forint's exchange rate, on the one hand, and on the other hand, due to the extreme occupation or flight of material and labour charges, partly in the exchange rate of the forint, partly due to other reasons. Here, a higher level of responsibility should be imposed on designers, as it is extremely typical of family-married planning, or of a large state investment, that the designer is among the first to receive his money, receive the design fee, then wash his hands as a rare exception, and do not want to take responsibility for serious design errors where appropriate. I would like to remind everyone and draw their attention to the fact that there has been a long-standing legal institution for liability insurance in the Hungarian construction legislation, either on the construction or on the design line. Here, for example, over investments of a certain value, this is a regulatory option to consider, compulsory liability insurance should or should be required, and a simplified liability enforcement regime should be established to ensure that, where appropriate, the serious error committed at the beginning of the process is not only professional but also financial or insurance legal responsibility. It would be equally important or could be that, where appropriate, a monitoring person should be included immediately in the planning process, even in the financial engineering process, since the appropriate price calculation, the appropriate cost estimate will be the most important element in establishing the estimated value in the procurement procedure, which will decide, where appropriate, the procedure under which the procurement procedure will fall, and, on the other hand, an important compass for contractors to manage and include in the tender. There is another important area that may have been mentioned little in the past in favour of a lot of left-wing political lozunges, but the Mi Hazank Movement, as a right-wing opposition party, tries to make professional comments, small details such as professional meetings, which are often not recorded in writing or are not recorded through some electronic means, and are often forgotten in a day or two. As the various authorities have agreed, where appropriate, certain things are simply forgotten by human factors or human errors, their recording in writing is essential. The next important subject, Minister, mentioned in his expo, was the need to have export plans. Well, to the best of our knowledge, while the licence holder's plans are regulated in quite detail by the Hungarian legal system, this cannot be said about the export plans, since the Chamber recommendation cannot be called a strong legal regulation, which would rightly be expected in the case of public investments of billions or tens of billions or even hundreds of millions. An appropriate regulatory regime for export plans should therefore be established as soon as possible after the entry into force of this Act. The rules of replacement work should be laid down in order to prevent the successful tenderers from applying the extremely simple, many decades of tricks to offer a relatively favourable price, with which they will at the same time make the best offer, win the job, do the work, and then, during the execution, with various so-called replacement works, eventually raises the total cost of execution so that if they had given the offer price taking into account it, they will certainly not win the job, they will not win the job, they will not take the job. It's an old, well-established trick. Therefore, the rules on the use and taking into account of replacement works are essential guarantees, and we can take very significant care of public funds if the regulation of replacement works is properly recorded even in this law. The specific feature of this bill is that, compared to an average bill, there is a much greater significance for various additional regulations, whether legislative or regulatory. [[13.40]] I am thinking here of the rules of the Public Procurement Act, and I am thinking of the expected substantial amendment of the future, in the near future, construction law, the adoption of virtually a new law on construction, or the fact that, on the basis of this proposal that will be adopted, the state investment, the order of works will work only if as little regulation as possible is fixed or thrown down to the level of government decree or ministerial level, because then we will practically weaken and degrade possible stronger provisions. On the other hand, Article 4 does seem worrying. § 2 and 4. Paragraph 3 of this Article provides for an unduly broad definition of the exemption rules. In effect, either the government or the competent minister can almost completely grant discharge, if you like, exempt from the application of this law, which, let us say, is fundamentally contrary to the spirit and purpose of the bill itself. And for a moment, let us be stuck with the aspects of the public procurement law, because here I would like to talk very briefly about at least three things. One is the application of the local labour force, which is a key issue for the application of the local Hungarian labour force, I would like to stress - ; then it is a matter of material and labour charges; and the creation of the possibility of fiscal transfers between different types of purchasing, which, by the way, goes beyond the powers and opportunities of the Minister. After all, if we interpret it closely, we are talking about works, we also need to think about the fact that, in addition to or in addition to works, public procurement procedures for ordering services and supplies must be carried out, which cannot in any way be regarded as works in any way. [[Attila Gelencsér will be replaced by Dr. István Tiba in the notary seat.]] Luckily, although we know that this has been particularly rare in the last 13 years, that some of the types of purchasing might create an opportunity or develop an opportunity to regroup between the lines. So, let's say we manage to order a service at a cheaper rate, obtain a product at a cheaper rate, or the investment costs a little less than the planned budget, in which case this source should not be lost either in the EU or in the Hungarian budget, but should be able to make savings that may have been created, call it savings, and redistribute it to the other purchasing type. I know these previous few sentences may seem naive, knowing the great Hungarian reality, but I was lucky not to take part in public procurement procedures at state and municipal level before 2010, where this was done in practice, was a practical example. By the way, there was a possibility of such a transfer at the time, and it was not easy to authorize it. I would very much like to point out to the Ministry that the framework of this flexibility, or this flexibility, should be created. Employment of the local workforce is a very old story and, in fact, the Kbt in force before 2010. on the basis of and in relation to one of the relevant government regulations, only at that time there was no more than a list of four or five, a list of a government decree from a) to a) or point (e). I would like to point out that it can work very well in practice, especially if it is also recorded in the contract models that will be published, if the contractor, the successful tenderer, is about to break the obligations of the contract, and does not want to employ so many workers, trained workers or skilled workers who live locally or within a defined geographical distance. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are talking about the application of Hungarian labour in all respects, both among secondary workers, trained workers, skilled workers and those with higher education. The MiHazák Movement is insanely opposed to the marching of tens of thousands of construction workers from the third and fourth worlds, if any. We don't need any Pakistani, Indian, Bangladeshi or God knows where they came from. And we don't need them trying to legalize illegal migration in this way. In every way that exists, we must seek to bring home as many auxiliary workers as possible, skilled workers, and not to bring home their lack of them permanently, with the arrival of the third and fourth worlds, even this very important workforce for public investment. With regard to the subject matter of materials and labour costs, this may be a more difficult issue than anything else, and it affects the ability to calculate, planning, in principle. In my opinion, and in our opinion, it would be helpful to authorise the import of building materials produced in Member States other than EU Member States which comply with strict Hungarian standards and have quality certificates, as there is an urgent need to create a strong competitive situation in order to break down prices and limit prices. For what has happened in the last two years mainly in relation to the increase in the price of building materials, there is no reason in the world other than profit hunger. This is a price increase artificially raised and drastically raised by a profit hunger, against which both the private sector and the public sector seem to be largely defenceless, although the State is still benefiting from very significant VAT revenues, and the general public sees and suffers all the disadvantages of this in its entirety. There are also some worrying or worrying provisions. Indeed, the scope of the local governments may seem more narrow than is necessary, and this is certainly worth changing. Then, Minister, there is a worrying provision or a planned provision for the provision that design services may be ordered in the case of delineating facilities prior to the preparation of the expropriation plans. Well, this is a very worrying circumstance, because the most common thing for these types of installations is that the State is selling in the public interest or, if it does not work, it acquires ownership of the property, if it so pleases, by the power of law. If an agreement is reached, a sale of public interest will result in the acquisition of the State's ownership, if it fails to reach an agreement with the private owner, then the expropriation will take place. The fact that the expropriation procedure can be initiated in such a case without the existence, adoption or final plans of expropriation seems worrying in any way. As for sustainability, it is a key issue. We also spoke about this or exchanged ideas during the ministerial hearing and ministerial report to the Committee on Enterprise Development two weeks ago. I understand that energy belongs to another minister and another ministry, but the subject of building energy is inevitable here. In order to be sustainable in a large state institution, it is essential to be considered as a modern building energy facility, it is essential to apply modern technologies, without which this is impossible, there is virtually no technical possibility. And, above all, without solar systems or the energy of the sun, it is impossible, whether in the case of private-owned family houses or in the case of state-owned or state-built buildings, to use low energy without the use of modern solar technology, which you and your government have been obstructing since the autumn of last year with a feed-in stop and any other circumstantial self-destruction, I would say that no reasonable reason other than the various other lobbyist interests can be found. So I would certainly recommend this to the Minister, because without it, talking about sustainability would be self-confidence and naivety. As far as the guarantee or liability insurance concerned at the beginning of my speech is concerned, let me use one supplement: the responsibility of the designer must be extended until the final authorisation for entry into service is in place, and take responsibility for his work until there is a final permit for entry into service for that building. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-05-23-60	Thank you, Congressman. On the part of the Government, Minister János Lázár, the rapporteur, made a comment. Here you go, Minister.
u2023-05-23-61	Thank you very much. Honourable Parliament! Mr President, Dear fellow Members, I would like to thank my fellow Members from the political group for their good intentions and their ill-meaning contributions. The truth is that it is appropriate to treat both of them as drafters, but I do not want to have a personal or personal debate, given that I think they are not worthy of the government. [[13.50]] However, I would like to note that I understand and accept a number of your comments, whether in terms of concrete investments or investment policy in general, but also the representatives of parties who participated in the government before 2010 or the leaders of the parties at the time have actually led the country. So they had eight strong years to prove how to invest in Hungary. The most serious corruption cases in the country's history are linked to this period and bringing foreign companies into place and opportunity. There were two things typical of the Socialist Government between 2002 and 2010: it opened the borders of the country to foreign construction companies disproportionately, there was a year when, thanks to your governance, Austrian large companies had 600 billion HUF worth of road investment, which did not cause any problems for you. Now that Hungarian businesses have mandates, this is a problem. I'm just saying this on the record that if posterity reads it back, that's all I'm trying to do to nuance your position. The other is that there have been some serious corruption cases, which has led you to lose the 2010 elections, and you have not been able to win an election since. The resulting frustration or inability to process should not be called upon me, but perhaps it should be settled in-house or directed primarily with the electorate. You may be asking us to make mistakes, and of course you may be right about a lot of things, and I can even say for sure that we are not flawless, but according to the assessment of the Hungarian electorate, our mistakes are no match for your mistakes, which is why we won it in 10, 14 and 18 and 22 with a persuasive element of the election. I would add that you have tried every single time to put the issue of corruption in the focus of the elections, which clearly did not interest the electorate, because more and more people voted for us, unlike your campaign. So, then, the voters were not bothered enough by what we did well or badly with regard to public investment. What I think is even more embarrassing is that, at the City Council, where one speaker has been a senior official for many years, my other fellow Member has been an experienced leader, I do not know any of them's initiative to introduce innovations on transparency, transparency and competition rules as set out in this Act. Well, the City Council didn't forbid single-offer procurement, Congresswoman. Well, you were sitting there. Why didn't you ban single-offer procurement in the City Council as your first decision? The same applies to their governance that what the Public Procurement Directive has allowed in Europe has not been applied. There's no doubt that we haven't applied it before, no misunderstanding, for the sake of fairness, but at least now we're trying to introduce it. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh intervenes.]] I would just like to offer that you have arguments before which you will find open gates, and we are prepared to consider them, for example, as regards the composition of the Council of Interests, as regards the enforcement of green points or the risk of highlighting and the risk of favoritism. I will consider these, and if there is a substantive proposal that remains within the limits of rationality and we try to get it out of the world of political irrationality, then I am ready and able to accept them. What I would like to make clear here is the issue of local governments. I was mayor for ten years, and I think I can't be accused of anti-government, because I started working in the local government world in 1995. Here, too, there are good practices and there are bad practices. I do not want to go into the debate on centralization, but once I wanted to understand the failure of the Hungarian left-wing social policy during their governance, it was not independent that your visions of government and social policy were not taken seriously by their own left-wing self-governments and were not implemented. I say to the representative of the Socialist Party: while the socialist mayor of Miskolc sabotaged the implementation of segregation and anti-segregation and integration government requirements in the field of education, my municipality introduced it. So that there's something about centralization or centralization, there's a lot to argue about. With regard to the centralization of health care, I need a sentence that doesn't come out of me. However, the parasolvency could be eliminated as a result of centralization, Congressman. You can talk about everything, but it was this government that, after 40 years, stopped the parasolvency that couldn't have been eliminated if the system hadn't been centralised. We will probably never agree on what proportion of centralisation decentralisation leads to results, but consider it legitimate that we are not thinking about selfish personal aspects, but rather about centralisation because of the country's competitiveness, whether it is the quality of education, the quality of health care or public investment. I would like to say to you here openly and in the minutes: I have no intention of taking investments from local governments, and I will take every opportunity and take every opportunity to keep investments in the municipalities. There will be municipalities that demand this, and there will be those that do not. The mayor of Budapest turned to me in a letter, in addition to other local government leaders, to which I responded in 5 points and put forward a compromise proposal. This was accepted by a good part of the local government leaders, the joint implementation of investments, or the time limit that if the portfolio does not comment within 15 days, the municipality will automatically retain the investment. So I made proposals for compromise and admissibility that are meaningful and clear to many municipal leaders. I would also like to make it clear that no one can argue in the legislation that the executive power has the right to apply rules or criteria if the investment is made out of more than 50 percent of all Hungarian taxpayers' money. That is not controversial, because there were central rules under your governance, which had to be enforced in local investments. So, if you give me the money, I think you have the right to establish the rules of use, there is no question about that. I therefore recommend that this be considered in any way. It would be strange for the State to grant the aid, but in the way the aid is used, for example in the public sector, it cannot set limits or lay rules on transparency. I'd like that too, Gy. I would like to point out to Mrs Erzsébet Németh that, since I am a minister, I have abolished the institution of the highlights, the institution of the discharges and the law radically reduces the scope of the highlights that are of national importance. I am also trying to narrow it down, understanding your warning, and I am ready to accept opposition and pro-government proposals in the round of exceptions. However, I cannot change the fact that the world's external circumstances have often forced the government to make decisions over the last three years, in the form of Covid, economic crisis, war, out of the ordinary agenda. They should not dispute the right of the executive authority to try to deal with or solve acute problems quickly. I think that the possibility of a good law should be left open. No misunderstanding, I do not want to take down a weak opposition as a representative of a strong government, but I do mention that the birth of this law is not necessarily necessary either. There was also a debate in itself about bringing this to Parliament, but I think it is a wise attitude on the part of the government to guarantee this for the legislator and for the legislature. Because some people assume that if they have the annual budget, from the moment the budget has been adopted by Parliament, the government can lay down the rules of procedure for the use of the amounts entered in the budget in a government decree or regulation. So I would just like to point out to you that, when you governed the country, there was no law on the order of public investment, the opposition at that time was not given the opportunity to express its opinion on how public investment was regulated. You've outsourced him to agencies. You said that agency, which I have liquidated, I have terminated, I have brought it to the Ministry because the control of ministries has been in Parliament since April 1848 in the spirit of good governance. I think there's a lot more chance that the Parliament will control a ministry than what you did after 2002, that you organized investments into agencies, pushed them away from the government, you couldn't even know which agency was running, what you were doing. Obviously, the agency was set up to steal all the money under the socialist government. That's what it was all about. I have removed this agency structure in 2014 when I dealt with European Union funds, and now because I am not a conceptual believer in setting up agencies, structures and organisations as far away from the government, the executive power, and thus the legislative power as possible without governmental, executive and legislative control. It's a timeline. In my view, the 10 years are not much time at all, since you, who are unreserved believers in the European Union, should know precisely that we are planning the EU budget for seven years. In December Hungary adopted operational programmes, including those planned for 7 years by the capital, and for 7 years concrete project lists, such as works, were to be submitted. I would like to inform the Hungarian Parliament if this had been overlooked, that in Hungary the implementation of a road construction in a green field, when it comes to motorways or motorways, is 7 years, and a railway investment is 10 years, because the design alone is 3 years, and the licensing is at least 1.5 years, and the construction is 3-4 years. [[14.00]] So if something is decided now by the relevant wallet and it takes three years to plan it, it will be done or when it will be completed in 7-8 years. For 32 years, all governments have been trying to speed this up, and no one has yet succeeded, because in the meantime, EU implementation principles, such as environmental rights in green areas, guaranteed by the EU directive, have not made procedures simpler, but more bureaucratic. So I think that it is appropriate to plan for ten years, it is well-founded, and it is very well-founded, and it is a professional wallet, a minister of medicine, to pick up which school he will renovate, which hospital he will renovate, which fire department he will renovate, what infrastructure, what road development will be in Hungary, it would be a big problem if I could not tell ten years in advance in the government what the Hungarian railway should look like in ten years' time, what the Hungarian road network should look like in ten years' time, or the expressway network. That would be really bad. And I think these ten years are more of a guarantee rule, Congresswoman and Member, because, in fact, after 2022 and after 2010, the investments that the previous governments had planned could not be built. So what is now being planned will be realized after 2026 and will be realized after 2030, which will be planned between .26-30. In part, the complexity, legal guarantees and personal capacity of design justify this time frame. It's a shortcut, no matter how much the government wants to speed up, it can't be in substance or content. So, if you had the intention to separate me from party political commitments and criticisms that I understand, I accept, and if I were an opposition representative, then I would obviously have read such an indictment on the head of the government, because that's what I'm paid for, and that's what I'm doing, if there's any intention, if you calm down and look at the fact that you have something to add to your faction to how this law could be better, then on these issues, which have been raised by local government rights, advocacy councils, narrowing down exceptions, even involving KEKVAs in the scope of the law, I'm not just shutting myself down, but I'm willing to initiate. I would like to thank my fellow members of the Government for not only the current professional contributions and not only the defences against the indictment, but also the fact that during the preliminary discussions, which you have brought up, such as municipal rights or, in fact, highlights and exceptions, my fellow members of the Government have also brought up in the preliminary discussions, when I had the opportunity to present their proposal to the factions, have already been mentioned and mentioned. Thank you very much for the compromises that we have been able to make, and with my colleagues, I am at your disposal to reach a consensus and compromise for the future. The law on Hungarian architecture will be a much more difficult legislative process. There I have already indicated in the Committee on Enterprise Development that I am ready to offer the factions the opportunity to negotiate before the submission, even if we do not agree on a number of issues, but perhaps the case of architecture and construction has the least party political dimension. That's gonna be one big wall. Once again, I am ready to agree on that bill. I do not know what the custom is, but I am asking Mr President and my fellow political groups to let me go back to the ministry, and my Deputy Minister will be at their disposal. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[In the notary seat, Dávid Dócs replaced Daniel Z. Carpathian.]]
u2023-05-23-62	Thank you, Minister. In view of the end of the keynote speeches, two-minute speeches will now take place. I give you the floor, Gy. Erzsébet Németh, from the DK Group. Here you go.
u2023-05-23-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Well, perhaps, while you're leaving, the Minister will listen to a few sentences I'd like to say. First of all, I say it calmly; secondly, I do not doubt your sincere words or your sincere words, but the problem, Minister, you know, is that you will tell me how open you are, how forthcoming you are, and then the Fidesz majority behind you will vote you down. [[János Lázár: That's not what I'm famous for. Nacsa Lőrinc: Faction member!]] So it is very much the experience of the opposition that we have so far made any proposal, not only in this cycle, but also in the previous three cycles, actually nothing has been accepted by the Fidesz majority. The other thing I would like to say to Minister is that I do not know which factions he respected by consulting on this bill before it was tabled, certainly not his Democratic Coalition. These sentences are quite strange from the mouth of a pro-government minister who has been ruling on transparency, transparency, cooperation, and political policy, when you have been ruling by decree for three years. Obviously, it will always be possible to find some kind of threat or emergency, for which Parliament's control function will be completely empty to make different decisions. So, the problem, Minister, is that you know that pretty words, principles, are in direct conflict with practice. I think there are very few opposition representatives or voters who believe in what you say or say here in the possession of the fourth two thirds. And feel free to run, I still have 30 seconds, while I'd like to say a few sentences to Congressman Nacsa. [[János Lázár: Thank you very much, Congresswoman.]] However, as regards corruption cases, the Minister also had one side of the comment. Well, I say to Congressman Nacsa that Metro 4 was handed over on 28 March 2014, which means that the works took place for a minimum of four years under the leadership of István Tarlós and the first two thirds of the Fidesz. If that was a problem from a transparency or corruption point of view, I am curious how many complaints and other actions you have made in this case. The problem, Congressman Nacsa, is that what we did after 2019, on the other hand, did not happen in those cases because of the prosecution led by Péter Polt. [[The president's ringing the bell to indicate the end of the time.]] I'll pick it up later. Thank you.
u2023-05-23-64	Thank you. For the next two minutes, I will give the floor to Zsolt Nitrai of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2023-05-23-65	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State. Thank you very much for the word and opportunity. If we look at the autumn period, then we are actually talking about two laws, two laws, one of which is the current draft law on state investment, and the next will be the regulatory issue on the architectural law, right? I really do not want to comment on the content of the law, but on the practice that has developed with regard to the preparation of the law. Obviously, this is a subject that affects everyone or many people in one way or another. I thank the Ministry for showing flexibility and for being open to dialogue, because it has been able to conduct a very long and detailed social consultation on the subject of this legislation. For example, we initiated at the Ministry to welcome disability representative organisations, and a long professional consultation took place, and almost all disability representatives accepted the invitation. We went to the Ministry, and there was the Secretary of State, Regő Lánszki, who also bears the national chief architect's responsibility, and we were able to have a fair professional dialogue. Disability organisations have formulated their comments on this and on the other draft legislation that is being prepared, and Mr National Architect has informed us that there is a strong reception capacity on the part of the Ministry for hearing and adopting these stakeholder opinions. So I thank Minister Lázár, Deputy Minister Csepreghy and Regő Lánszki for this flexibility, openness and social dialogue. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-23-66	Thank you. For the next two minutes, I will give the floor to Sándor Szabó, from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-05-23-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, The Minister has left, the minister, who has been blessed with a grandiose communication ability, can perform in a very impressive way, which is also included in this bill. In fact, I would like to praise the draft law in one word, because it may be one of the legislative proposals that went beyond this level of social consultation, but I would also like to note what Gy said. Congresswoman Németh, I am not aware that the Socialist faction has been contacted in connection with the conciliation. I understand that the bill proposes the efficiency of investments, which I can fully support, but Minister here mentioned the investments of the previous period; I do not think it is good for the Hungarian people, the Hungarian society, either, if European Union funds related to the Prime Minister's direct kinship are to be returned because, by the way, these funds have not been used well, I would just like to note in parentheses. Otherwise, I will, of course, take advantage of what the Minister said: I will submit a proposal for an amendment and, above all, a proposal for improving the law and specifically for investments by local authorities, because I confess and think that where local government investments are, by the way, capitals, county towns, small settlements, but they are scheduled and functioning well, I do not think that the system should be harmed. It should be left alone that this process, which has already begun there, can continue to be complicated in the future. The Minister has also promised this, and I think that, indeed, where necessary and justified, in terms of the efficiency of investments, whether it is a central or an EU resource, it is necessary to take some kind of action. Thank you very much. [[14.10]]
u2023-05-23-68	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We now have further speeches from our representatives. I give the floor to István Apáti of the Group of Our Country. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-05-23-69	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, What I did not have time for in my speech as a speaker, I would like to continue. During the debate, I am increasingly convinced that it would have been much luckier, better and more effective if this bill had been submitted at the same time as the new construction law, because it is impossible to review one without the other in its full context. The debate is a bit side-sided, and the proposals and comments are side-sided, as I am preparing to look up the Ministry in a specific case study, otherwise residential or family-marriage level, with what amazing, self-destructive, unjustified and insane administrative delays there are in the Hungarian building law system, for which there is no need for a significant part of the world. If these are to be eliminated, then perhaps the application of the priority investment status in the national economy or the application of specific rules in this regard will not be necessary, or, at least, will be necessary in much fewer cases, since this is necessary in addition to several other, possibly not necessarily fair interests, because the duration of a normal authorisation procedure is incredibly long. Now, when we are faced with the fact that a procedure takes a year or two to fix the existing state at a given time, not before or even before the completion of state-level, non-government-level construction works, so let's say that obtaining a post-employment or survival permit takes between 12 and 24 months for non-state-owned real estate, we have to go through as many administrative authorities as the case files, which are good for having a good look at the related legal material, and we realize that there is no need. Now, the same is true, and even more so, of the regulations relating to public investment, but since it is not there, at the moment there is no new construction law before the House, which is why this one-sided situation arises, which I referred to earlier. In any case, it is worth dealing with this, and then, in fact, the rules of exception should be applied much less frequently, which, where appropriate, may form the basis of legitimate opposition criticisms, as not only the intention to speed up proceedings may be behind it, but we, the Parliament, the majority of you, form or shape the Hungarian legal system. You should not be angry with the law-abiding people, or you should not just be angry with them, because procedures may be extremely prolonged. Then there is another issue that is linked to the administrative and administrative burden. Modern buildings, modern construction cannot be imagined without the development of electrical networks, especially in these very dangerous times. Now, the situation here is the same as in the case mentioned above. In many cases, for reasons unknown, the Technical Department of the Ministry of Defence has to be involved, let's say, in the authorisation procedure for a 150-metre execution. Don't ask me why you need to do this. I will send concrete case studies to the Ministry in order to prove what undue madness there are in many cases in the Hungarian administration. And then we're surprised that, where appropriate, I'm talking about administrative and administrative procedures for electric, residential network development procedures, and it's gonna take a year and a half to two. Well, if we move at this rate, there will really be no meaningful network development by 2100, without which energy security, energy independence and modern service cannot be imagined. Well, what happens in the case of a serious public works project? If, at the retail level, the participants were faced with unjustified, duplication of administrative burdens in relation to a minor development, and if they had not contacted me by more voters in this regard, I would not believe the announcement myself, just as I would not believe in oral communication, how incredibly bad it works in this respect, whether in principle or then in the approval phase of physical execution. I find it quite amazing. I remember what the Minister said at his hearing with the Committee on Enterprise Development that he was already at the stage of his life that he did not take up the tasks, but rather wanted to do some of the tasks for other ministries, let us say, to make them possible or to provide for the possibility of doing so. But you may not get away with taking the role of building energy, say, through a political adoption, or at least close consultation with the Minister of Energy, because sustainability cannot be imagined without modern building energy without the sustainability aspects of the bill he or his ministry is now having in general discussion and long-term, economical, modern, low-cost operation. Not to mention that we may only be able to guess what, where appropriate, unjustified energy requirements are being tightened up in Brussels, the extent to which Brussels is going to be overdoing again when, say, it will impose unduly strict rules relative to what is strictly necessary in relation to insulation or heating and cooling costs or technical parameters, which will ultimately not be complied with without the use of state-of-the-art techniques. So I would like to remind the Deputy Minister once again of this from the point of view of practical thinking, and that there is a need to look very carefully at the system of related administrative procedures, and, as I would say, to simplify these procedures to the extreme. Because it doesn't make it better, it's more efficient to make the different documents for the desk drawer and the shelves of the closets. I think it is possible and even very likely that there are interests in generating unnecessary administrative work, because a number of jobs can still be maintained. I understand the aspects of this, but perhaps those people in other areas, even in other areas of public administration, can make themselves more useful, so that even their interests are not harmed. However, it is totally unacceptable that public and public development is often delayed by the public administration system, as I have just said, for a long time, resulting in significant price increases and a significant loss of long-term sustainability. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of our country.]]
u2023-05-23-70	Thank you. I give the floor to comment Gy. Erzsébet Németh of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2023-05-23-71	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. In the two minutes, I had no opportunity to answer a few questions to both Minister and Congressman Nacsa. I think that at a time when Mr Nacsa spoke about centralisation, or as one of the main elements of centralisation in health, that the parasolvency could have been abolished, I think it could have been done without centralisation. It is not necessary to nationalise the entire healthcare system, to take away from municipalities, for example, inpatient care, so that a good decision can be made on parasolvency. I would like to say to the Member that the centralisation you have referred to here in relation to this law has not, in the opinion of DK, been good either in education or in health care. If you think that education, public education, is in a much better position today than before 2010, that children's educational achievements are better, that they are out of school and public education with more knowledge, better skills and skills, then I think you are very unaware of today's real public education situation. I can say the same about health care, so if the nationalization, the centralization that you have implemented was in the best interest of the patients, then we think very differently about what is in the interest of a patient when he needs medical care, specialized or inpatient care. The Member also said that he thought it was odd that an former deputy mayor, who was even responsible for culture, opposed the renovation of the Opera, the Liget project or other cultural investments. I object from the point of view, Mr Nacsa, that these investments were not made by deadline or within the original budget, unlike the Lanchid you referred to as negative. There, there, within the budget and within the deadline... [[Nacsa Lawrence: No, no.]] But, Congressman Nacsa, I'd love to help you with that, but I think if you hit the search engine, these specific facts will come out to you or appear on your screen, so the investment of the Chain Bridge will take place within the deadline, and what is important is within the budget. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] [[14.20]] Another issue is that the Orbán government is playing tricks by promising the 6 billion forints promised to the former Fidesz Mayor, István Tarlós, in connection with the Lánchíd investment, and he no longer wants to give it to the new left-wing Democratic leadership. He also mentioned the debt of the municipalities. I think, Mr President, that the municipalities that managed responsibly did not build up such a large debt. And I would like to say one more thing that you obviously know about the importance of this, another is that someone borrows money for development investments, becomes quasi-debted, and another is that he takes out operational loans and is indebted to him because of funding for his operation. I don't know if you were close to politics at this level before 2010. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: I was a college student then.]] But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, at the time, I was leading the Committee on Local Government and Regional Development here in Parliament, and I have witnessed many times when Fidesz mayors and County General Assembly Presidents, including, if I remember correctly, your fellow Member, who was then chairman of the Baranya County Assembly, spoke with great glory at the committee meeting that we now take on a lot of loans and then invest them in all kinds of bonds. So, honourable Member, by 2010, with the strong support of Fidesz party moguls and Fidesz, these municipalities took out loans, and then it really got to the point that these municipalities had to be consolidated in a number of cases in 2010. Nota bene, I'm going to go on: these municipalities have to apply for a government license for any type of credit today. However, you are a very serious abuse of this otherwise acceptable measure. For example, non-fidesz-led settlements are not allowed to take on development-type loans, which is why it is also possible to purchase public transport or public transport in several cities with non-Fidesz-led county rights or in Budapest. What I would like to say to you, I believe, is that this bill, even if I think back to Minister's positive closing words, cannot again be a test of what we say, that what we say from a law or, as the law will be applied, will show what that law really is worth, what it is worth. We have seen many times that you, whether here in this House, but even more so in propaganda, in public, say very nice words, sometimes I feel like a pigeon of peace is passing through this Chamber or at committee meetings, and then the bloody reality is that there is no reason or reason to support these proposals, because you are simply abusing the dominant position that you have now received from society for the fourth time. I will not go into this now, but I would have liked to have replied to this, to the Minister, how and how the two-thirds majority in this House will be achieved every time, which DK believes is being abused in a very significant way. And to put to the end of my speech the few sentences that Mr Nacsa has missed: I truly believe that it is the shadow government that will bring about governance for this country which affects as many people as possible and which gives more people a better quality of life and a better life. Yes, Congressman, I really do believe that where you have delivered most of this country during this 13-year period, most of the people of this country, it is simply not the European Hungary that I truly believe in. Thank you so much for listening.
u2023-05-23-72	Thank you. I give the floor to Dániel Z. Carpathian from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-05-23-73	Mr President, Dear House, Not abused by the general debate, but it is good to have a ministerial response; I encourage that. When we talk about ten-year plans from wallets and ministries, let us be clear: of course, it is possible to adapt to the seven-year financial cycles in the EU, but I would be a little braver than that. Let us not match it, but assign our own budgetary resources to our own national strategy goals. But, Deputy Minister, don't let it get to the point that every wallet is planning for ten years, of course, for the second half of ten years, because then it may seem easier to implement and finance something than it is now, but then spend the next three years not putting tangible plans on this term. So please also state in any case what it is that can be achieved, done and financed in this cycle. I understand that it is difficult, because EU funds have been frozen, which would otherwise be due to Hungary. What I am saying is that there is at least one more important target area for these, a wage development fund in which if we channel some of the EU funds, some of the cohesion funds, the small entrepreneur can apply for it to increase the wage weight of his labour force, where appropriate. This is also related to construction and I would like to move here to the other important point to be highlighted, for which I asked for a word, and this is the preference of the local workforce. It's very nice for your concept to put it on the table so that the local entrepreneur can have room. We have always said this, said it, supported it now, and obviously employ as much local workers as possible. This should be one aspect of the evaluation. But it is precisely your concept that goes against the migrant strategy, which, although it expresses similar things in its aims and rhetorical terms, but the problem is that the domestic labour force's preference will be provided with guarantees under the rules of procedure. At the same time, when we take up such completely logical demands as that the multinational worker not only proves that he has sought a labour force, but he has not found it, but also confirms that he has not been able to retrain from the existing work force in Hungary, of course free of charge those who have it, if we throw in this guarantee rule, then you do not respond, you do not say that this is precisely your goal and that we strengthen the law with this. I fear that, although you are setting these fine goals, tomorrow there will also be a debate on migrant workers' legislation in the field of migrant workers, and it will not come to light that you have no other concept than to compete with low wages in international space, and if hundreds of thousands of people are forced to emigrate in order to make a better living, then you will replace them with guest workers. 'Cause right now, part of the talk is that we need 500,000 new workers. By the way, I might even accept that in the medium term. Here, however, there are two ways to do this. One of the things that your Minister for Economic Development spoke about at his ministerial hearing is that it is a good thing to touch the activity rate, because there is still a reserve in the Hungarian activity rate, and there is even a reserve of 100,000. It cannot be arranged with the fact that in every detail we write in the justification that Hungarians should be preferred, but then reality and realization point to the fact that an almost uncontrolled, organised migrant import is made. So my firm request for you to agree on the different wallets should be similar to the regulation in this area on all subjects. I support the fact that the Hungarian entrepreneur should be the first and the Hungarian employee to be the first, and even in the evaluation of the project, but that should also be the case in the proposal to be negotiated tomorrow. My request is that you speak to each other, because we do not see the guarantees that would always favour the Hungarian employee. And if the other regulation destroys this plan, which has been well formulated, then you write it in this concept, it will have an opposite effect, and at the end of the line it will only be the Hungarian workers and the Hungarian families who will suffer ill, and we cannot afford it. Thank you.
u2023-05-23-74	Thank you. I give the floor to Zsolt Nitrai, from the Fidesz Group, for a two-minute comment. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-05-23-75	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for the floor. In my two-minute comment, I would like to respond to the thoughts of Sándor Szabó, a representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party. What he has said in recent moments, I can say that it gives a real picture of the difference in perception between the left and the right in Hungary. Sándor Szabó suggested that what came out of reality during their administration was that if Hungarian state investment, then it is foreign work and foreign profits. However, we say, of course, in the legislative framework, that if Hungarian state investment, then there should be Hungarian work, Hungarian profit and Hungarian capital. [[14.30]] This is one of the souls of this bill before us, by the way. I am sorry that the left is still unable to improve and still prefers foreign capital to domestic capital. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-23-76	Thank you, Congressman. I do not see any further speakers, and the general debate is closed. I ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[On the signal of Nándor Csepreghy:]] Here you go, Secretary of State, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
u2023-05-23-77	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor, for the opportunity to speak. Allow me, as the closing word of the opening debate, to thank, on behalf of Minister János Lázár, the Ministry of Construction and Transport and the Government of Hungary, for the contributions made in the debate, both by opposition and by pro-government representatives. Firstly, I believe that the open posture, mentioned by Minister, is supported by the facts, as we are talking about a sectoral legislation, and there is no sectoral player in Hungary today, including the Chamber of Architects, including the Chamber of Engineers, the National Trade Union of Construction Enterprises and countless professional associations, who have not been asked on this issue before the statutory rounds of consultation were conducted in the context of social consultation. I think, and I would certainly not like to be critical or cynical in this matter, but if there is a law adopted by the Hungarian Parliament for social consultation, which means that, before submitting to Parliament, the final legislative texts must be shared on government platforms, there must be an opportunity to speak to Hungarian citizens within the appropriate timeframe, and if more than a thousand Hungarian citizens can live with this, it is strange from the representatives of the Hungarian Parliament, opposition representatives, who still receive their payment from the tax forints of the same citizens, to criticise that we have not sent this draft law in a sealed envelope addressed to them. If this is the case, we can, of course, do this for the Member, the Members and anyone in the Hungarian Parliament. I think, in the spirit of the digital transition, as I have read DK's programme, this is one of its long-term plans, perhaps that would be expected, but if it were up to that, then, Congresswoman, I can really do this. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: That is not what needs to be done, Mr. Secretary of State. That's not what we were talking about.]] As far as the content of the draft law is concerned, and I think that this is also possible in the Commission's round next week and in the subsequent final debate, we are open to receiving substantive proposals. However, I would like to draw the Parliament's attention to the fact that, in the last ten or a few years, since the responsibility of the government once again conferred on the executive responsibility of Viktor Orbán, I have not met a political debate outside Parliament or outside Parliament, where there was no criticism, in many cases a legitimate criticism of the implementation of the various investments made by the state, municipal or public funds, and this criticism concerned the time frame for investment, the cost framework for investments. So what should now be decided in these speeches, both on the opposition and on the pro-government side, is whether we criticise what was wrong in the system that has been done so far, and then we must support a bill that clearly eliminates these errors, or we must criticise this current bill, and then you will put the comments of the previous 12 years in parentheses here, in front of the public of the Hungarian Parliament. This debate should be carried out in-house. As far as the genre of constructive opposition is concerned, I would like to suggest that we listen to each other and respond substantially to each other, because if you had read the final bill submitted to Parliament in many cases, you would not have made any comments that were still relevant to things that were actually included in the version 1.0, 2.0 and 3.0 of the Act, and were then excluded from this proposal, among other things, after consulting local governments. So I would like to ask that we be really up-to-date on this issue. I would also like to put the debate on the table, I think, in a perfectly understandable way, which is the clear intention of the Ministry and the Government to adopt a law with the Hungarian Parliament which is very clear about the system of liability arising from two different government models: on the one hand, from the left-wing government model, which is a globalised approach, which settles the responsibilities of the Parliament, the representatives elected by the Hungarian people and the government organised by the parliamentary majority, with regard to political and legal responsibility, by bringing these executive decisions into a central ministry and not just its responsibility; on the other hand, from a model where this electoral responsibility, this ministerial structure and the agency system which makes actual decisions are separate. In the case of an opposition representative, I think that the situation will be as clear as possible by the fact that a minister that you can interpel to the Hungarian courts will take responsibility for all investment decisions, and that responsibility will prevail and be accountable throughout this life cycle, as opposed to that model. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh intervenes.]] , honourable Member, what you have created and which has clearly led to the fact that you lost the electoral mandate in 2010 and have not once been able to obtain it since 2010. I would like to reiterate here once again the publicity of the Parliament, thanking the government factions for their support, that, yes, this is a protectionist law, which serves the principle that Hungarians in the Hungarian construction industry, in Hungarian investment policy, have the opportunity to participate in these works at least as much as in the case of countries which are always seen as a reference basis in these debates; Austria, Germany, France or other Western European countries can be seen as evidence. If you look at the concentration that, let's say, is found in Austrian, German or French construction, the proportion of domestic businesses is above 80%. I think that this is a completely right attitude, which the countries which joined the European Communities after 2004 must also bear and follow. The critical practice of criticising, for example, the transformation of the Hungarian market and the strengthening of certain Hungarian players, was still sufficient to ensure that Hungarian players were only in the majority, and that international construction players were still significantly dominant in Hungary compared to the Western European average. So this is a draft protectionist law, which also states that it is not enough for a Hungarian to be good, and must also be able to scale itself in competition. I hope that the implementation of this principle can be further strengthened in the context of amendments to the law. Allow me, Congresswoman, Members, the public of Parliament, on behalf of the Minister and of the Government, to indicate the kind of openness that the Minister has said here, in relation to the amendments, and I trust that they can, together with them, adopt a law that will be behind the wider public of Parliament in the coming weeks, even in this session. Mr President, Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-23-78	Thank you to the author. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the proposed legislation on gaming and electronic administration and amending certain laws to strengthen the coherence of the legal system will follow. Government referral T/4027. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2023-05-23-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The package of laws discussed can be divided into three large parts. Some of the amendments are aimed at gambling regulation, another part contains digital administration, and the third contains basically technical amendments. As far as the first set of proposals are concerned, the aim is to make gambling management more effective and to better protect the interests of players. The full picture includes the Gambling Company. Every year, it makes a significant contribution to the economic growth of the country, to the financing of Community expenditure, to the priority support and results of domestic culture, social and health areas and sport, returning about two thirds of its clean play revenue to public budgets for public funding. Now, as far as the concrete bill is concerned, some of the proposals relate to online betting. From the beginning of this year, remote gambling can be organised by other companies as well as the public gaming organizer. The proposal before us responds, among other things, to the needs of this market opening. One of the key elements of the amendment is the greater leeway of gambling operators in how many balances they maintain for their players. According to the current rules, only one balance can be opened for a player at the organizer, but players will be able to manage their deposit and payments related to, for example, the lottery and their various online bets. It is an important restriction that only one balance will continue to be attributed to a particular type of game. [[14.40]] It is also a proposal for online betting that the gaming organizer may in the future provide an opportunity for the recipients to make early payments. This is also a popular practice at international level. This means that the player does not wait for the outcome of the bet, but can close the game at an earlier time with a lower amount than the original. The second group amendments also increase the efficiency of gambling management, but they do apply to other games not included in online betting. The proposal also includes both a scratching lottery and a bookmaker's bet within the scope of the state-owned toy operator monopoly. It is also an important circumstance that these games have been exclusively used by Szerencségy Zrt. for decades. organised by this amendment to bring this practice to the legislative level. The purpose of the third group of amendments is to provide players with greater protection compared to the previous ones and to give the supervisory authorities stronger licenses. Dear House, Another large group of legislative proposals concerns digital development and digital administration. Digitalisation plays an increasingly strong role in the economy, and it is estimated that the digital economy already accounts for at least 25 percent of the total Hungarian GDP. The government is doing everything in its power to make Hungary a winner of digitalization, so we have taken a number of steps forward since 2010, so in recent years the super-fast internet has been built in nearly the entire territory of the country, and now nearly 97 percent of households have access to the most modern network connections. The number of available cases has increased six times in the last year on the hungarian-Hungarian-Hungarian-Hungarian-Hungarian-Hungarian-Hungarian-Hungarian-Hungarian-Hungarian-Hungarian-Hungarian-Hungarian-Hungarian-Hungarian-Hungarian-Hungarian-Hungarian-Hungarian-Hungarian-Hungarian-Hungarian-Hungarian-Hungarian-Hungarian-Hungarian-Hungarian-Hungarian-Hungarian-Hungarian-Hungarian-Hungarian-Hungarian-Hungarian-Hungarian portal. In addition, almost 5.5 million people have registered at the customer gate. In addition, citizens can handle certain cases without standing in line, from home, in some cases via video chat. The amendments contained in the package of proposals concern four areas. The first is to abolish the fee for authorisation for qualified electronic signatures and stamps. The second concerns the national single card system, making it faster to apply for different cards. Thanks to this amendment, the NEK registration will also be available in government windows, at hundreds of electronic contact points across the country. With the help of electronic contact points, specific cases can be handled electronically on touch screen devices easily, quickly, without the intervention of an administrator and without standing in line. For example, the replacement of the driving licence and the identity card, the application for a birth certificate and a moral certificate. This service can also be used by citizens who do not have the technical means for electronic administration. The third amendment proposal aims to make the automatic administrative decision-making system available to electronic administration bodies. It will be possible to deal with matters such as motor vehicles or municipal taxation without having to act as an administrator. This reduces the burden on the administrators and can make the operation even more efficient. Finally, the fourth proposal also relates to the automatic administrative decision-making system, which amends it from a procedural point of view. Dear House, Digitalisation improves the quality of life of Hungarian people, makes businesses more competitive, including the entire national economy, which is why we believe that these amendments, these legislative proposals, will help the digitalisation of public administration to continue. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-23-80	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Gyula Siberényi, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-05-23-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, T/4027 on the table of this House, amending certain laws relating to the organisation of gambling and electronic administration and in order to strengthen the coherence of the legal system. The provisions of the bill are partly administrative in nature, based on practical experience, partly aimed at re-regulation of individual processes and the development of new processes. The amendments to the Law on the Organisation of Gambling aim to bring about regulatory needs in the context of gambling management, with which the legislator intends to strengthen the competitiveness of domestic gambling and, in particular, the competitiveness of remote gambling, bearing in mind its transparency, regulated organisation and the protection of the player. Among other things, this bill is the State Gamblers' Gamblers' Gamblers Zrt., which is the result of the opening of the market. reflects certain regulatory needs identified by the Member State concerned. Other regulatory needs, also indicated by the public gaming organizer, have also been raised in practice, which will further increase the efficiency of gambling management. The proposal will continue to address the practical problems encountered by the Supervisory Authority for Controlled Activities in the context of the performance of official duties, with amendments aimed at strengthening the coherence of the rules on gambling at the statutory level. The draft also amends certain rules for clearing, prize base and gaming tax training, including in the context of the creation of detailed rules for other draw games, and in view of the opening up of the market, due to the possibility of expanding the range of remote gambling organizers. A new rule for the training of the lottery prize pool is that not only the consumer price on the lottery tickets purchased by the player can count on the prize pool, but also the gambling organizer can make up for it. This aims to create the possibility of introducing new types of sequence games. Dear House, The 2014 LXXXIII on the Single Electronic Card Emission Framework According to the amendment of the Act, the priority objective of the national single card system is to ensure a high level of security for individual electronic card issuers and recipients, such as the State, municipalities, transport companies, by joining the system. In order for individual citizens to be able to join the national single card system as card users, registration is required. Thanks to this amendment, the NEK registration will be made available at electronic contact points, which support quick administration in government windows. The KIOSK project contributes to the functioning of a customer-oriented, service-oriented state. On touch screen devices, specific cases can be handled electronically easily, quickly, without the intervention of an administrator and without standing in line. For example, driving licences, replacement IDs, various motor vehicles, birth certificates and moral certificates. This service can also be used by citizens who do not have the appropriate technical means for electronic administration. Dear Parliament, CCXXII of 2015 on general rules for electronic administration and trust services. By adopting a law, using the automatic administrative decision-making system, an administrative case could take place without human intervention. The automatic administrative decision-making system will be developed through an EU project, partly from EU funds. The aim of the regulation is to allow electronic administration bodies to use the AKD system. The processes carried out by the AKD system with the help of the former administrator can be automated, which contribute to reducing the burden on administrators and increasing the quality and efficiency of public services. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, To sum up, the bill before us contains forward-looking provisions in relation to gambling management and electronic administration, so I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the proposal, in the light of what has been said, like the Fidesz fraction. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-23-82	Thank you. I give the floor to Zoltán Varga, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-05-23-83	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The fact is that we could actually have a conversation here, argue about why it is necessary or not necessary to amend the Gambling Act on a professional basis. [[14.50]] We could, if it wasn't for a sufnituning hybrid regime, I'm not so forgiving, I'd say we'd be living in a petty dictatorship that you've formed, forming here for your image. Now, you know that very well, everyone knows that we have, in fact, been living in a sufnituning, petty dictatorship for almost 13 years, where it is obvious that you are subject to the laws and all the legal instruments to be able to steal as much as possible, to put away as much as possible, and otherwise you are least concerned about how the people of a country are living this, how much they are ruining it, how much they are suffering from it. It is quite clear that what we see on the surface is a very simple thing: there is a specific salad law before us now, but the problem is not only that you, the government, well, as they usually do, and we call it by name, slylyly, again forced, on a night of wild novels, and then, in a few days, you have now placed a law on the table of the House that you wish to pass. Obviously, I have read it, and I see that the proposal amends 17 laws as salad law, and the Secretary of State has also spoken about this, and he is right. He is also right that many of these contain only text exchange or technical clarification, and we agree on that. The major amendment, which represents a significant part of the bill, is an amendment to the law on the organisation of gambling, and I think that is what the Secretary of State has been talking about. And obviously it is obvious, too, because everyone who has dealt with this little bit is aware that it is also in professional circles that there is much that could or should be changed in this matter. Well, you know that very well, and let's just take a little bit of a break on this thing, and look at yourselves, that's actually the surface. Because we know very well that this is exactly the area of gambling, where you started this blessed activity, which I was just talking about, because this is the business from which billions of skiers are sold, let us be honest, where billions are eliminated, not just every month, but slowly every day, and given in the form of subsidies made, of course, the Orbán dictatorship is now behind the cover of its raggy, dwindling cloak of Fidesz and NER. Well, we know very well that we are talking about unruly money, and you know this: we are talking about gambling, and we are talking about money that is uncontrollable under the law, and we are talking about huge sums of money. Let us think here, and I think that the pro-government representatives are aware of this, for example, the casino business. We know this very well, we have all lived through the steps and the process of how this was developed, we can see the above-the-laws, but of course, with the help of legislative amendments, some of the Orbán-neighborhood money companies that can still operate without any laws or substantive authority, perhaps only in the country. We can also see very well that the owner of the last unlucky little shoe shop is connected to the NAV online. Or the latest news is that today the flaming buffet on the beach has to report practically every minute about the traffic. But we're not just talking about it, but we're also talking about how many sour creams some customers put on the flamer, or how they eat the whole thing, or put something away, or ask for extra cheese. And put your hands on your hearts, honourable pro-government representatives, this is insane, that despite all this, casinos pushing billions into the pockets of Orbán buddies every week are above all laws, and they do not have to operate online cash registers. So if we're talking about gambling, let's not forget that. Speaking of gambling and Szerencségy Zrt., in the common language, in Debrecen the company is called the paying place of NER kissers, where, of course, Orbán-faithful, party-like, well, everyone will decide for themselves, in the Hidden Books, which is not the correct definition, so let's leave it at that, and where almost only companies and faces near Orbán can get some kind of spiritual support. Mr. Secretary of State said that the Gambling Company. What he's contributing to. Well, you've missed the best of it, Mr. Secretary. He didn't talk about the Orbán friends, he didn't talk about the kissers, he didn't talk about the NER minions, he didn't talk about vassals, but he didn't talk about Rogán's ex-wife, he didn't talk about Lőrinc Mészáros, Lőrinc Mészáros's wife, he didn't talk about the CÖKA, for example, he didn't talk about the 140 million HUF support to Attila Pataky. Somehow he left these out of the loop, because that's why you're actually running this whole system: it's a paying spot. It's about you trying to keep NER kissers with you and obviously the people you call celebrities these days. So let's just stick to the subject. According to the usual proposal submitted on an average romantic Tuesday night, the Scratch lottery game, which is also spoken of by the representative of the series game, except for horse racing and remote gambling, only the public game organizer is entitled to organise the bet. So far, the bookmaker's bet has been included among the exceptions in the law. Now we're reading that they've practically nationalized the bookie system. I have to add that they probably did this by not having the opportunity for private bookmakers to appear in this story, as it was the design of the environment. According to the official definition, the bet form in which the betting organizer offers the player money on the basis of a multiplier for the event specified in his offer and for the outcome of the event specified in his offer, and, in case of winning, he pays your text as stated in the agreement. That's clear so far. However, it is less clear that I would have to add a valid justification, it would be mandatory, and you are not very well aware of this in the proposal submitted, because in part of the justifications you are putting in the same thing as CtrC/CtrV, which we have already read in the content of the amendment, so that the aim of this game, which can be organised exclusively by a state game organizer, is to have a scratcher ticket and a bookie closing not organised as gambling: a bet on the ground. So, in fact, all you do here is amend a law so that, obviously, it will help you again; obviously, to better assist the paying network that you have been operating for a decade in practice. Hundreds of billions, thousands of billions are slowly flowing out of Gambling Company. And the gambling business in my buddy's pockets. In fact, that is what you should be talking about, and obviously there will come a time when you will no longer be able to choose whether or not you want to talk about it, because you will be asked, and you will obviously have to answer that. Now, they're gonna call it democracy, not what you're doing here. And we clearly see that the justification for the proposal adds that they want to bring about regulatory demands in the context of gambling management, with which the legislator intends to strengthen domestic gambling organisation and, in particular, the competitiveness of remote gambling, that is what they have talked about. However, as I've just begun to say, this is the surface itself, and it sounds very good. If someone is ignorant, not knowing your work, not knowing the last decade, just hearing what the Secretary of State has said, then he says everything is okay, but everything is not okay. Because if we scratch even a little bit, if we look a little behind the reality that you are trying to project to us and to Hungarian society, then your system will become visible. The NER is the moaning machine of a raging new money factory in a legal robe, and that's the problem with you, you can't see any further than your own pockets and Orbán's wallet. That's what we're gonna change soon, and then you're gonna have to answer for everything, which is why. Thank you for listening. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Threats...]] [[15.00]]
u2023-05-23-84	Thank you. I give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-05-23-85	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. Congressman, what happened? You put your salary on red and failed? Or where is this tension that you have here at the Parliament meeting? I don't understand. I looked at it quickly, talking about dictatorship and even a petty dictatorship, and I looked at the definition of dictatorship: passing state laws, relying on the violence organization against their own people. Riding attack, eyeballing, you remember that. [[Zoltán Varga: Tear gas! Tear gas!]] He's the one you've been protecting. I too have listened patiently, and it has been difficult, honourable Member. He remembers that in 2006 there was a prime minister who led a horse-riding attack on his own people, had eyes blown out, and had innocent, peaceful people sword-sworded. Perhaps you remember that, Your Honour. Now, that was more like the time you called a petty dictatorship. Interestingly, you never ask your boss what it was like to conduct this against your own people, your own citizens. [[The chair is occupied by Dóra Dúró, Vice-President of the Parliament.]] You know, Congressman, who was Szerencségy Zrt. between 2004 and 2010. Chairman of the Supervisory Board? Do you know that, Your Honour? He was János Barabás, Deputy Head of the Agitation and Propaganda Division of the MSZMP. So the confidant of Ferenc Gyurcsány and the Chief Advisor of the Prime Minister's Office is the man who is the Deputy Head of the Agitation and Propaganda Division of MSZMP. So you guys thought gambling would require planting such ancient commies, because you'd be in good hands there. I'm sure the case of the casino in Sukoro has heard of it, Your Honour. I would like to recall your memories, if you are already talking about gambling organisation and other such matters, Mr President, it would be interesting to talk about them as well. It would also be worth talking about the fact that you sold 192, mostly profitable public companies at a price to your friends, foreign interests, 192. Do you remember the new ownership program? Gambling Company. It was also one with the Posta, the airport, the airport, and so on, with companies that Ferenc Gyurcsány said could be taken away, for pennies, below the price, whatever. Do you remember, Your Honour, this world? ! State wealth has been growing since 2010. You've reduced it. They sold companies at a lower price that generated revenue for the state. Secretary of State told me the numbers in his expo. Gambling Company. every year, it pays two thirds of its revenue to the budget, so that social workers, nurses and teachers can be paid, so that improvements can be made, roads can be built, railways can be built, and environmental investments can be made. [[Zoltán Varga: Battery factory in Debrecen!]] That's what you're paying for, honourable Member. The Debrecen battery plant is not a state investment, honourable Member. [[Zoltán Varga: 300 billion, they already gave it to him! 300 billion! The president's ringing the bell.]] That's what Gambling Co. is paying for. also in the budget, so that important measures for the well-being of Hungarian people and measures for the functioning of the state can be implemented. [[Zoltán Varga: You can see that, congratulations!]] That's what Gambling Co. is paying for. You're the 192 state companies that paid into the budget every year, took it, and gave it at a price, and from that... [[Zoltán Varga: Rogán Cecília! Does that name mean anything to you? Dr. István Apáti laughs.]]
u2023-05-23-86	I would ask my fellow Members to continue the debate in the framework of their speeches. I give the floor to everyone who demands it, and so we can continue the debate in a more civilized form. Thank you very much. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-05-23-87	Thank you, Madam President. 192 state companies, profitable state companies that paid into the budget so that the state could operate to build roads, renovate roads, and so on, you sold them, caught them, and sold them at a low price. Have you ever asked your boss why they did this? Have you ever asked Ference Gyurcsány how he had the courage to do such a thing to the Hungarian nation, that 192 state companies from MOL-pake across the airport [[Zoltán Varga: Attila Pataky!]] energy companies, waterworks, sewerage works, gasworks, electrical works, honourable Member... Shares have been sold in many state companies, the Hungarian Post Office, honourable Member. [[Zoltán Varga: 140 million, Attila Pataky!]] How did they really think that when it comes to farming responsibly with the state's wealth, it should be taken care of and increased? You did the opposite. Since 2010, state wealth has been growing and growing, honourable Member. We work for this, we think that the state is a good farmer, that it is right to reclaim the state companies you squandered and put in your friends' pockets, or those in the pockets of Ferenc Gyurcsány, a Timföld factory, and so on, we can list these incredibly brutal corruption cases that are connected to you. We bought the gas reservoirs back, so this winter we had no problem with gas supplies, because we could fill the gas reservoirs. [[Zoltán Varga: You bought the gas from Putin at seven times the price!]] You have filed a claim to buy back, honourable Member. What you're saying is embarrassing! What you're saying is embarrassing! [[Zoltán Varga: Indeed it is! Seven times the price!]] His speech is full of slides and lies, while self-criticism is out of the question. You accidentally didn't say a word about the pre-2010 policy that robbed the country, honourable Member. If we look at this bill, the following may seem to have anything to do with what Congressman Varga said. You didn't say anything about this law for more than ten minutes, nothing. This bill, which is here, we are here in the debate on this bill, in this bill, there are passes on gambling regulation and the promotion of electronic administration, honourable Member. [[Zoltán Varga: Don't drive me crazy. He's been talking about me for six minutes.]] I understand that you come into Parliament with no interest in what is in a law that we are going to argue on, so you are also used to chair a committee meeting. I understand you don't care what subject you're here on. Nevertheless, this is an important law, honourable Member, because the Gambling Management Act will also be amended. In recent years, it has been seeking to meet the regulatory needs of gambling management. There is no particular emphasis on this, either, on consumer protection, which, I believe, in the online world today, in the increasingly expanding and dangerous online space, is justified by the fact that the protection of personal data, that the protection of gamblers is justified in such a case, in a world where online space is so expanded. The bill also amends the law on the single electronic card issuance framework, which sets out the rules for completing the NEK registration at the point of electronic administration. The amendment to the e-administration law clarifies the regulation of automatic decision-making and repeals the power to regulate the level of administrative service charges to be paid for the notification of regulated electronic administration services. The aim of the current bill is therefore to take another step towards extending electronic administration as widely as possible. We have talked about this before: the objective and important objective of the Fidesz-KDNP government is to build a customer-centred service state and an efficient, modern public administration, which makes everyday life easier for Hungarians. Reducing administrative and bureaucratic burdens for citizens and businesses is at least as important as reducing tax burdens. We have talked many times about bureaucratic measures and legislative proposals between the walls of this House, as in recent years there have been numerous major steps that have led to an incomparably simpler, faster and more digitised administration than, let us say, in your time. More than four million people now have access to customer gates, and the establishment of government windows is quick and easy to handle. Online appointments, no queues, and in a short time some 2500 cases can be dealt with. It is also worth mentioning that you have previously attacked this: from 2021 onwards, the administration of one and a half million administrative matters has become free of charge and free of charge. The current amendments, I think, are basically technical, but they are necessary, because they are taking another step towards the broadest possible dissemination of electronic administration, and they are taking another step towards the right regulation. Accordingly, the KDNP fraction will support the bill. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-05-23-88	Welcome, fellow Members. We will continue the discussion of the keynote speeches with the speech of Mr Róbert Dudás, from the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2023-05-23-89	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, There have been a number of ideas here in the debate that has developed so far, so allow me to go around some of them, at least, because it was thought-provoking. Of course, I will do this absolutely free of the personalities that have been said so far, based solely on the facts. At the same time, however, I would like to say at the very beginning that everything that is aimed at reducing the negative impact on society must be fully supported by Jobbik. [[15.10]] What, however, is simply dressed in a social-negative robe, otherwise in many cases business- and buddy-specific, I will not be able to support what I am thinking. It has been said earlier that what Szerencségy Zrt. is paying for, which, by the way, has about seven times over the past 10 to 12 years. I don't want to hurt anyone for the world, and I don't want to talk about who they're supporting, but I'm going to talk about who they're supposed to be supporting. I have made several proposals for a decision that, in recent months, it is now safe to say that, in a year and a half, around the Hungarian Post Office, Szerencségy Zrt. will remedy the anomalies and wave of closure and wave of termination and wave of sending. It would be a perfect opportunity, since the two systems, the two companies, are in very serious tying, would be perfect to finance the postal service from which, by the way, it is safe to say, although at first I thought that only the population of the countryside could profit, the outrages following the closing wave have shown that the urban population feels the same way, and it is very important for them too. It has also been said that the state is a good farmer and that it is very important for the state to be the owner of everything. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] I don't necessarily share that. I do not necessarily share this; the state is, in my opinion, a good farmer in many cases, but it cannot mean that the state must be the owner in each area, because it cannot be a good owner. The decisions are good if they are formulated and born at the nearest level to the population, which is why it would be important to treat local authorities, institutions of education or health, which have been maintained by local authorities in the past, at the appropriate level, and, more importantly, to support local authorities in making decisions on both educational, cultural and health issues on the ground and on many other issues. It has also been said that it is important to reduce the tax burden. We agree perfectly if you think it is important to reduce the tax burden. I just don't understand why the tax cuts submitted by the Jobbik-Conservatives have never passed the fidesz benches in the past two or three years. Why didn't you feel that if something like this happened, then it should be supported? Without the need for completeness: we initiated the remission of taxes on basic foods, this would be the most fundamental thing to support people in the current economic crisis; not to define categories and to say that you can choose from these eight to ten products, you can eat from this, you can farm with this, no; to give people the opportunity to get the widest possible access to basic foods and they can ensure this because I think that is why we are not talking about luxury categories for their children and their families. And speaking of children, we also asked for the abolition of taxes on child - rearing articles to be considered irrelevant. Now, yes, they said that tax burdens should be reduced, but when this is submitted, it is always voted off. Just as I have brought the reduction of taxes on fuels into the walls of this House on many occasions, you have always voted against this. And besides the fuels, I can also mention the overhead. And this bill, as has already been said, contains 17 laws, we are talking about a salad law, it amends 17 laws. The only other thing I should have done, Mr. Secretary of State, and I think it would have been a very serious recognition of the pro-government proposal from the opposition benches, and that is, if the casino sector had been affected, the casino sector that is not connected, in fact, through online cash registers, into the NAV network. And then allow me here, and I would like to end my brief speech by what it is that this proposal should be amended, and by doing so, they would be able to obtain a broad acceptance, by the way. I will submit a proposal for a decision in two areas. One is the installation of casinos with online cash registers and the connection of casinos to NAV. I think it would also be a fundamental thing, because when you destroy entrepreneurs and hosts with NTAK, you are obliged to do such administration, otherwise theoretically I believe that math came out here in a plaid book, but if in practice you look at how this works, you would say that you will be immediately withdrawn before this comes into force. That's one of them. The other will be a proposal from you in 2011 which will, of course, be rethinked and re-buttoned, just because 12 years have passed and the system has changed a little bit, and this will not be about anything else, and many of you will certainly remember when Minister János Lázár submitted it in 2011, and this concerns the game tax per toy. In that paragraph, you will have to look into what kind of gaming tax is to be paid per game point, from 100 thousand to 500 thousand forints, except for casino games. Well, I am therefore proposing a resolution that casinos be connected to the NAV via the online cash register, and that will be included as a small update of the bill you submitted in 2011 so that casinos are also included. I think that if, as a justification for the proposal, both the Secretary of State and the pro-government speakers stressed the importance of revenue, well, I think that casinos are exactly where there is revenue and where it could be paid into the central budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-05-23-90	The lead speaker of the group of our country, István Apáti, is next. There you go. I'll give you the floor.
u2023-05-23-91	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I listened to the debate of the representatives of KDNP and DK with great interest and with great smiles, and, if we are not referring to you personally, or at least in relation to political blocks, the very old saying came to my mind that the owl is saying to the sparrow, because if we look at this type of social and economic organization, which is excellent in terms of the organisation of gambling and the unregulatedness of casinos, it is clear that the left, if we make it very simple, has stolen the public property by international means, and you have been honoring the exception for 13 years under national flags, and the amount of money that is incomprehensible to the average Hungarian man from the system, and the excellent route of supply of this has always been gambling. Owl says to the sparrow, because before 2010, Balliberal governments received very significant support from the gaming machine entrepreneurs at the time, and worse, from the gaming machine underworld. I have already said this from war logic in the period 2011-2012, but I am now forced to repeat this proposal by using the first two thirds of Fidesz-KDNP, which was spiced up with a partly true argument and partly pulled out by its hair, poured around the neck, and the uncontrollable amount of money that had so far been made available to or for the benefit of Balliberal parties has been channeled to themselves by 100%. That's what happened. There is no difference of merit with regard to the tendency to corruption, the left is in pain, not in corruption, but that they are not the beneficiaries of it, that, in most cases, they are not the beneficiaries of it, except for the potential of the metropolitan districts, the metropolitan government and some major cities. Before 2010, you did not have any problems, Mr Varga, with gambling management, the world of slot machines at the time, because you received it, not personally you, I do not suspect you, I have no proof, so I will not be incorrect, but we know exactly what the MSZP-SZDSZ is; but as we know exactly, we are just trying to imagine what amounts of cash have migrated into the parties' bins B and C. Now, this has been taken from you, this is, of course, a huge cut of blood, the bombing of the war feed, so let's just be fair, so let's put it this way. Then don't be a hypocrite or a Pharisee attitude, because that's what the whole story is about. [[15.20]] It is also clear to me that after the last two or three months, here during the spring session, the issue of casinos has been raised several times. I remember well that it was our country Movement or myself who outlined the total inability of the situation that casinos were not connected to the online system of the NAV. Not the cash registers in the casinos, but the slot machines and the various gambling devices are not connected to the NAV online system. The objective is clear: to be able to move funds and finance political activities in the order of thousands of billions of dollars per year, to finance municipal, EP and parliamentary elections, and, where appropriate, to create funds for the purchase of votes or for the purchase of certain players from here. In fact, there is an excellent, sophisticated tool or opportunity that lies in casinos, and bribes can be paid legally to certain persons, to certain beneficiaries who, by chance, are suddenly so fortunate in a given casino that they can win fabulous fortunes, or at least significant amounts, even in one afternoon or overnight. From then on, no one can say, in the criminal sense, that there has been a transfer of bribes, although this has actually happened. In that sense, there could be a paying spot. In any case, it is truly outrageous that almost every individual entrepreneur was obliged to subscribe to the Internet at his own expense, to purchase the necessary technical tools, to develop them, to maintain them, to buy new ones at times so that the NAV can see everything and, in the context of proportionate public burdens, you think, the last penny tax can be paid by these businesses, as they, so to speak, have no smart room for manoeuvre. Casinos, of which, if I remember correctly, may have some of the interests of the current Minister of Defence, even though they do not have any obligation. You think that's fair, correct? What is your relationship with proportionate public burdens? Do you think this is proportionate public burdens? Is this the Christian-Conservative attitude, the maximum fulfillment of justice requirements? That in Szamosbecsen the smallest traffic beautician or hairdresser is connected to the online system of the NAV, and not the players who shoot thousands of billions a year, and the casinos that make gray and black money? There is no technical barrier, there is no IT barrier, there is a political will barrier to this, because it is a line of war that you do not want to give up, because the margin of movement is narrowing, the prey that can be consumed and lost, because the money in Brussels is not coming, we must leave these opportunities. Unfortunately, there will always be addicted people who are addicted to gambling, even though in the period of 2011-12, they justified their current measures by saying that it is intolerable that poor people living in rural areas, large cities, capital cities, may play their last forints of wages, incomes and social assistance on the one-armed robber and on various slot machines. Of course, this seemed true in itself, perhaps partly so, but we know that a person who is addicted to drugs or alcoholism or smoking, this is an addiction, starting with the lotteries on different online surfaces, using a mobile phone, can play their aid, wages, and income in the same way. Only by connecting to casinos and establishing a concession system could you ensure that these funds can only be made available to those who you find fit. This is entirely for your political purposes. And, you know, that's the biggest problem, and you still don't feel the weight of it, because you live in the magic of public opinion polls with respect for the exception, and again, you don't feel at the moment that there is a problem in this country in your social support. They do not feel the weight of food inflation, they do not feel the extent to which the middle class, or even a part of the upper middle class, is poor, how it absorbs, how inflation evaporates people's savings, or takes away the theoretical opportunity, and how people's opportunities are narrowed in order to make or increase savings. You do not feel that, because you see in research that you are always very popular, but this social organisation and economic organization is not viable in the long term. In the context of the management of gambling, the operation of casinos is also clearly visible, it can be summarised briefly as respect for the very rare exception, you think that the beneficiaries you have designated should bathe in milk, butter, honey, 24 carats, and the rest should solve or die, what does it matter to you? After all, the gambling industry, which may have had some of its key players at the time, in fact, fed Balliberal parties, could not be said to say that, let us say, in less developed areas or far from the capital, everyone would have been in this circle without exception, certainly not. You're practically all-fire, using lawn mower principles, downing, destroying everyone. They did not look at the number of small entrepreneurs in this old gaming machine world who, say, did not belong to the underworld, who did not operate in a mafia manner, and who, if any, held dozens of families, held dozens of jobs because they also provided other services through related catering investments, buffets and other operations, where appropriate for public satisfaction, in places with difficult public security, where, let's say, there were only places where the owner or the owners were allowed to enjoy in peace. You took everyone under the same roof, thinking that everyone was financing the left, even though it was typical of the big ones, that the little ones didn't have the benefit of ruining everyone so that they could pocket much more money after 2010 or 2011-12 than the balliberal government put in their pockets between 2002-2010. It is great that there is a special tax rate for canoeing or other winnings games, which is 24 per cent, but generally the legislative goal that can be pursued throughout the proposal cannot be discovered. And I was looking forward to it, too, that if the moment of truth finally comes, the conscience speaks to you, they really feel it is important to bear proportionate public burdens, they feel that it is truly outrageously unfair that the smallest entrepreneur, who is expected to pay public burdens even if he has little income in that month, or if, in the case of his savings, he has to pay the public space by reaching out to his emergency reserves, then it would be appropriate, where appropriate, to persuade the casinos belonging to the interests of the Minister of Defence to bear a proportionate public burden. This would be the place for a sectoral special tax on gambling, whether in the form of a percentage or a flat-rate tax. What was considered important at the time in the region of 2011-12 would be even more important now, because, let's say, there are plenty of holes in this budget, in the country's budget, that should be settled and filled. I'm sure you'll find it very charming to argue, and your own electoral camp is very pleased with the way Congressman Nacsa is rippling towards Congressman Varga, while Congressman Varga... [[Zoltán Varga: And Congressman Apáti towards everyone.]] I can say it with complete moral authority, because, thank God, I am not a member of any political community. You can say a lot of things about us that are usually unfounded, you can yell snakes and frogs at us, but we have not been involved in the looting of our country, either under an internationalist flag or under a national flag or in a robe wrapped in a national flag. So I can say with full moral authority whether you like it or not. Horrorist money flows only in connection with gambling. And, by the way, I would also like to draw attention to the shadow box, since Debrecen mentioned here that there was a very significant gambling activity in Debrecen, we are familiar with the large entrepreneurs of the Debrecen circles and the leading political players associated with them from the right, also from the left. Are you here to perform the great death, Congressman Varga, in connection with the battery plant? Well, our country movement went to the wall alone, for that matter, although it really doesn't belong closely to the proposal. We were the only ones who could do that if only for a few hours, but we were able to paralyze the construction. And you're all shading around here that you're going to purge Mayor László Papp out of the mayor's seat with a disgruntled disciplinary process that you know nothing about, and you're not going to try to do anything more serious to prevent the battery plant from being built? ! [[Intervention from the ranks of the governing parties: Non-state investment.]] [[15.30]] You are right that although it is not a state investment, it has been said from the fidesz benches, but I did know of 157 by HUF 300 billion, I remembered that 300 is the ultimate goal, the total amount will be HUF 300 billion... [[Zoltán Varga: The problem is not that you're talking about Debrecen, but you don't even know him from a map!]] I've got a lot of relatives living there. Don't let me teach you that, because then you'll get to know my bad manners, and then we'll see who pulls the short straw. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches. Shall we go outside?]] So be careful, Congressman Varga, because my blood sugar is starting to go up. So be careful. [[Zoltán Varga: Careful, because at this age it is dangerous!]] Speak carefully. I used to walk, I used to do that in Debrecen, you know. You don't happen where I live or live. [[Zoltán Varga intervenes.]] I'm just telling you correctly, so don't play cat and don't mess with each other. So you're collaborating with the Fides, you've done nothing in Debrecen to prevent the battery plant, you're just shadowing, you're talking, you're talking, you're lying down. They're not doing anything! [[Zoltán Varga: You do.]] No substantial protests have been organized in recent times. [[Zoltán Varga: Because you do!]] They don't have any referendum initiatives, they don't even try. They don't even try to side with people. [[Zoltán Varga: Let's not get into nonsense.]] Only the mayor will be prosecuted in a settlement where, since 1998, no one has won an individual municipal district outside of Fidesz, and you believe that a disciplinary action will bring down the mayor. Congratulations on this political insight. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-05-23-92	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Now for the two-minute comments. In this context, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Varga of the Democratic Coalition. Here you go.
u2023-05-23-93	Thank you very much. I rarely respond to our comments in Hungary, but I would like to draw the attention of Mr Apáti to the fact that he really is paying attention to blood sugar, because at this age, this can have very serious consequences. [[Dr. István Apáti: I'll do it!]] You need to be a little calmer, take some medicine sometimes, and that helps a lot, believe me. [[Dr. István Apáti: You should be in a state of nerves and mentality!]] Congressman Nacsa, the fact is that I have not been able to decide in his speech and speech what hurt you: the petty dictatorship, the dictatorship, or the sufnituning petty dictatorship. So, once in a while, we'll be able to clarify which part of it hurts because, speaking of which, in Debrecen, in Debrecen, that's what they say these days, whether it's about the battery company or any other thing, that you're really hammering together a small dictatorship in the city of Sufnituning. We were talking about Gambling Plc. In 2022, the company had a record price of 820 billion. They weren't helping the teachers. They weren't helping the underpaid, destitute employees of the social sphere. They didn't help the poor Hungarian workers who were about to die because of your inflation in Orbán, they helped the Rogán family, they helped Orbán's friends. This money, for example, was spent on yachts, sailboats. That's what you should be talking about, not talking about what happened in the eight years 13 years ago, because that's not what we're talking about. We're living in your petty, suffnituning dictatorship. We're gonna suffer for a while. About casino business, that's all. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Sucoro!]] We know very well that there were several government members involved in the casino business. Here, I would like to note this, in addition, because it is obviously difficult to believe that it is really none of their business that, when they became members of the government, they suddenly say that they are giving up their interests. Let's see who in the casino business made billions of ski shops, even members of the government, and then the truth comes out. Thank you very much. [[Intercoms from the pro-government line: Applause!]]
u2023-05-23-94	Another two-minute comment was received by Member István Apáti, Mi Hazank. Here you go.
u2023-05-23-95	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Of course, I must respond to Mr Varga's verbal rampage concerning me. I'd like to inform you with great joy that a Father is always in the prime of his power, and I'm fine. I'm fine. I'm in perfect health, and by the way, my culture of movement and my coordination of movements are very well-targeted in certain life situations, there's nothing wrong with that in the world. [[Zoltán Varga: I'm happy for you!]] What hurts you, Congressman, and has not responded, I take silence as your consent to sabotage the protest against the Debrecen battery plant. It's not just that they're trying the LMP or the Momentum in an implied or explicit bargain... well, they're doing the protest with enough brake foam, but it's probably you guys agreed in some form, because you're practically doing nothing. On what level this agreement was made, you don't know. You can see Congressman Varga has left the meeting room. It's just for the sake of historical loyalty, TV viewers, Internet followers and the record that Congressman Varga has left the meeting room, even though he attacks everyone with so much heat. By the way, it's a congressman with excellent acting skills. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Ah, medium!]] He says interesting things, sometimes he gives me some fun, but I would've waited for him to get into this debate, and at least he's giving me a look at the defense of what the so-called Democratic Coalition is not doing in connection with the Debrecen battery factory. Well, you can't even say what his boss Ferenc Gyurcsány said in another dispute that the indignation of the child caught in him is understandable but unreasonable. He's not even upset. Thank you. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-05-23-96	I would like to ask my fellow Members if they would like to make use of the opportunity to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I'll ask the author if you'd like to answer. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State Dömötör, you have the opportunity.
u2023-05-23-97	In short, I would also like to say that we have turned a little too far, first of all on the points raised by Mr Varga, who unfortunately is no longer here, continuing the tradition that some opposition representatives are interested in Parliament's work as long as they hear their own voice. That's unfortunate. It would be better to honor each other to hear at least the answers to their own suggestions. His speech drew a picture of a place where virtually no assets were left and the state was destroyed. About what Congressman Varga said, this would be the picture. In contrast, since this government has been in office, the state's wealth has increased by tens of thousands of billion forints. This can be said of the energy sector, of the retail sector, of the media, and of the banking sector. We think it's a good development. So, if that suggestion were true, the statement that Congressman Varga said would not have increased, but reduced the size of the state's assets. As far as Szerencségy Zrt. is concerned, if the series of privatisations that were started during their governance continued, we would not be arguing today that the Hungarian Szerencségy Zrt. otherwise, what kind of activity you are engaged in and how to modify your activities and how to adapt them to new gambling habits and developments. We couldn't argue about that because they would have privatized everything by now. Contrary to what Congressman Varga said, the Gambling Company. a vibrant company, which, by the way, represents a small part of Hungarian GDP, for example, by operating one of the largest sales networks in the country. At 7735 points of sale, you can access your products, domestic services, mostly domestic services, and what is just as important is that you give work to Hungarian people, and it cannot be sufficiently emphasized that you will transfer two thirds of your clean play revenue back to the state budget in the form of taxes, fees, contributions and dividends. If this sector had been privatised, then this revenue would not be for the Hungarian state, we would not be talking about it. It was mentioned what activities are supported by the Gambling Company. We've had some examples. Several others have been left out, and it also shows that this support activity is very diverse. For example, it supports the Foundation for the Future of Hungarian Parasport, the National Association of Hungarian Blind and Sensitives, and supports the National Rescue Service. Gambling Company. With the support of 19 sites, playgrounds where children with intact and disabled children can get to know each other through common games. If the task was to continue this line, it would be a very, very long line, and I would not want to waste your time. As far as the casino concession is concerned, there has been an increase in state control in casino regulation in recent years and as a result the sector has become white. I'd like to back that up with numbers. In 2021, HUF 5 billion of concession fees were collected, compared to HUF 1-1.5 billion before 2010. [[15.40]] So the amount that the Hungarian State receives from the concession revenue has increased nearly five times. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the concession fees paid by the operator exceed the concession fees payable in other countries. That is all I wanted to add to what has been said, and I hope that a substantive debate on the real issue of the bill will also be possible in the committee section. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-23-98	I would like to inform my fellow Members that it is possible to submit amendments by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill to amend certain transport laws until closure. The government referral is T/4028. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Bálint Nagy, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Construction and Transport, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute timeframe. Here you go.
u2023-05-23-99	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, The Ministry of Construction and Transport was established on 1 December 2022, with a new portfolio structure and a new approach to the transport sector. The CCM brings together development and investment issues related to transport, operational, regulatory and regulatory tasks related to transport, as well as other tasks related to architecture and the construction economy as a single portfolio. In this view, a review of the legislative proposals prepared in the previous approach was also necessary, on the basis of which the CCM is the T/1619 on the amendment of previous legislation on certain transport matters. The Government has asked for the suspension of the bill, the withdrawal of which will be proposed by the Government by the submission of this bill. The current bill therefore includes regulatory tasks in the second half of 2022 and legislative tasks in the first half of 2023. The draft law contains all the amendments that the EU's legislative harmonisation and the profession and the transport industry consider necessary in order to enable a well-functioning transport and investment sector in Hungary to fulfil economic and economic policy objectives and to fulfil the tasks related to the mobility needs of the population and economic operators. The draft law proposes to amend 15 laws that are closely linked to the transport sector. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment to the Road Transport Act clarifies certain rules relating to workers involved in road transport, thus defining the concept of starting work and the definition of a working centre as the driver's general place of residence. In addition, it clarifies the provisions on the posting of drivers and the transposition into Hungarian legislation of the new EU rules on the use of vehicles rented without a driver for the carriage of goods by road. The amendment also includes the amendments necessary for the harmonisation of the Hungarian toll system with regard to EETS, the European electronic tolling service. In addition, in order to ensure consistency with the provisions of the Law on penalties for administrative infringements, the amendment clarifies the rules for the on-the-spot procedure of certain road traffic offences in accordance with the definition of the sanctioning act and the imposition of an administrative fine on the spot of a person recognising an infringement is imposed. The amounts of administrative fines for certain road traffic offences introduced in order to improve road safety have been set at a fixed amount without weighing. On the other hand, only the legal institution of an administrative penalty which may be imposed in the absence of a driver in respect of certain infringements concerning the prohibition of recovery, the restricted zone, the compulsory heading of progress shall be terminated by the proposal and the procedural rules in this regard shall be simplified. The amendment also facilitates the smooth transfer of assets belonging to a single digital radio communications system in the course of individual road investments by creating missing rules for this purpose. The amendment on the road-proportional charge to be paid for the use of motorways, highways and main roads, linked to the amendment of the Road Transport Act, also transposes the necessary amendments to the EETS harmonisation and the previous emergency provisions related to the toll system are incorporated. The purpose of the amendment to the Aviation Act is to clarify the provisions on the security background control provided for in EU law, taking into account the issues raised in the application of the law and the changes to the relevant EU legislation. In order to enhance aviation safety, the amendment proposes an increase in supervisory fees. The amendment to the Water Transport Act ensures compliance with EU directives. The amendment also introduces the concept of the examiner, similar to that of other transport sectors. The amendment of the Rail Transport Act establishes the transfer link between the different modes of transport, the legal framework for the operation of transport facilities providing increased passenger comfort services, i.e. intermodal nodes. By supplementing the legislation, the operation of infrastructure management companies will be complemented by the operation of the railway station, which is part of the intermodal nodes, and of the closely related facilities to facilitate Community transport and of the properties carrying them. The proposal thus contributes to the improvement of the quality of Community transport services, providing an adequate alternative to individual motorised modes of transport, thereby contributing to reducing emissions and meeting climate protection and environmental objectives. The amendment also provides the legal basis for concluding cooperation agreements with national security authorities and clarifies the rules on fines. The bill proposes to modify the level of the supervisory fee in order to increase public activities in the field of rail safety and amends the detailed rules for the notification of railway activities by deregulation of the legislation in order to reduce the burden on customers. By amending the Land Protection Act, the authorisation procedure involving other uses of land should not be suspended until the decision of the real estate authority has become final, not only for railway works where the trail is laid down by a government decree, if it has been declared a priority for the national economy. One of the key elements of the amendment to the Passenger Transport Act is the introduction of legislative harmonisation amendments concerning rail passenger services, the rights and obligations of passengers using rail passenger transport. In addition to the obligation to harmonise legislation, the regulatory elements established by earlier emergency legislation in the second half of 2022 will be incorporated. The draft also clarifies the rules on data management, public order and property protection and surveillance in connection with the operation of public passenger services and taxi services, thus laying down new requirements for the duration, use and availability of camera recordings. With regard to the preparation for the tendering of public services for inter-urban bus transport, the amendment ensures that the existing establishment stock continues to be used for the efficient and professional management of public services. The draft also introduces the concept of personalised travel rights and the concept of transport electronic identification. The bill amends the law on the registration of citizens' personal data and addresses in line with the concept of electronic identification. The amendment of the Waste Act provides for a framework to be used for other investments, such as the recycling and use of mart asphalt or rock, or concrete sleep, as well as the construction of construction materials on local and national roads and on national and regional railway lines. [[15.50]] The proposed amendment makes it possible to prevent waste generation, thereby contributing to the cost-effective implementation of investments. By preventing waste generation, additional logistical costs are significantly reduced, such as ensuring professional storage, thus making the current initiative not only more cost-effective but also more environmentally friendly. These substances are not considered hazardous waste and therefore their recycling would not pose any environmental risk. Honourable Members, The amendment contains technical amendments and clarifications concerning the general rules for compliance with the accessibility consequences for products and services, as well as the law amending certain laws for the safety of Hungary, as regards the Law on other rail transport, the Law on the modification of certain energy and transport and related laws, the Law on Accessibility of Products and Services. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Please make the T/4028. To discuss the proposed legislation and to support the regulatory intention set out in the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-05-23-100	Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Szeberényi, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2023-05-23-101	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, The Ministry of Construction and Transport was established on 1 December 2022 and approached transport-related tasks in a new portfolio structure and in a new approach. It combines transport-related development and investment, transport-related operation, regulatory and regulatory tasks as a single portfolio. In this view, a new approach has become necessary, on the basis of which this bill has been drawn up. The draft law contains all the amendments that the EU has to make for harmonisation and the profession and the transport industry, which are deemed necessary, in order to enable a well-functioning transport sector in Hungary to serve economic policy objectives and to fulfil the tasks related to the mobility needs of the population and economic operators. The draft law proposes to amend legislation that is closely linked to 15 transport sectors. Dear fellow Members, The purpose of the T/4028 bill on the amendment of certain transport laws is to introduce the necessary legislative amendments to the legislation in force in the field of road transport. Define the concept of an operating centre for the general location of the driver. He also named the post-training professionals as transport professionals who can carry out their activities under the authorisation and supervision of the transport authority. The aim of the bill is to clarify the provisions on the posting of drivers on the basis of experience gained in the application of the law and to transpose the new EU rules on the use of vehicles rented without a driver for the carriage of goods by road into the Hungarian legal system. The proposal concerns the 2017 CXXV on sanctions for administrative infringements. It also serves to ensure consistency with the provisions of the law. The rules applicable to the on-the-spot procedure for certain road traffic offences are clarified in accordance with the legal concept and an administrative fine is imposed on the person recognising the non-compliance on the spot. In order to improve road safety, the amounts of administrative fines imposed for certain road traffic offences are fixed without weighing, and therefore the bill does not change that the amount of the administrative on-the-spot fine is equal to the amount of the fixed administrative fine allocated to the breach. The amount of the fine should not depend on the fact that a fine is imposed on the driver who has committed the act on the spot or in a normal administrative procedure for the same infringement. On the other hand, the legal institution of an administrative penalty which may be imposed in the absence of a driver in respect of certain non-compliances relating to the prohibition of recovery, the restricted zone and the compulsory direction of progress shall be terminated. The proposal also removes the possibility of regulating the rules on administrative administrative procedures applicable to infringements by means of a ministerial regulation and empowers the government to establish these rules in accordance with the General Administrative Regulation Act. In line with this, the Public Space Surveillance Act will also be amended. The amendment also aims to facilitate the smooth transfer of assets belonging to the single digital radio communications system during individual road investments through the addition. CXXIX of 2007 on the protection of agricultural land. By means of an amendment to the Act, the authorisation procedure for other uses of agricultural land should not be suspended until the decision of the real estate authority has become final, if it has been designated as a priority for the national economy. The purpose of the amendment is also to bring data processing obligations imposed in the context of the operation of the services providing personal taxi services to a legal level, in addition to complying with the provisions of Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Regulation (EC) No 95/46. The 2012 CLXXXV on waste. The amendment of law allows direct recycling in the construction sector of materials which are not considered hazardous waste which are excluded from the rail and road breakdown. Dear House, The bill before us approaches the Ministry of Construction and Investment's ideas on transport investment and development, as well as the operation of infrastructure, in a coherent way, and carries out the necessary legislative harmonisation tasks. For this reason, I would ask my fellow Members to support the proposal, like the Fidesz fraction. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-05-23-102	It is now up to the lead speaker of the DK Group, Mr Zoltán Varga. I give you the floor, please.
u2023-05-23-103	Thank you, Madam President. Dear House, Actually, I'm a little embarrassed myself, but I can start my speech as well as in the previous case. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Oh, good.]] If we weren't living in a small, suffnituning dictatorship, we could talk about this salad law. [[Robert Szigó: You can only lie!]] Since a number of provisions in the package of proposals amending the 15 laws before us mean the transposition of EU law for harmonisation purposes. But unfortunately, we have to admit that we are living in a small, sufnituning dictatorship and, obviously, as in the previous salad law, this is also reflected in the text of this proposal. I wouldn't say much right now, but we need to talk about the situation with regard to the toll payment that I think is not in Europe. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Do you pay?]] But even in the world, it's an extremely guilty and vile intent. It doesn't have to go far, you may be able to do this, as Antal Rogán, Minister of Cabinet, announced on May 6 that the consortium led by the Themis Private Equity Fund won the concession for the construction and maintenance of motorways for the next 35 years. The fact that he is not the richest man in Hungary, Lőrinc Mészáros, and the consortium belonging to László Szíyi's interests and ranks are obviously interesting in this circle. [[16.00]] It is important to know about this consortium, that it is a company formed three months ago, which will earn hundreds of billions of HUF by taking over most of the motorways from the State Public Road Manager. Well, let's hold on to that, you are obviously aware, because you hammered this business, took over the task of managing a total of 1237 km of motorways and 900 employees of the Hungarian Public Road Agency, a company founded two months ago, the Hungarian Concession Infrastructure Developer Zrt. That, no, the company is a company consisting of private equity funds, the ownership of which is, of course, not public. However, unfortunately for you or for us, the press has already identified two close confidants of Viktor Orbán's immediate circle of friends or environment, and these two names arise again, what God gives, Lőrinc Mészáros and László Szíyj. Isn't that weird for you? All of a sudden, they're the same people. Lőrinc Mészáros, who, 13 years ago, was working on gas taps in a small village, is supposed to have an equality between the two, thanks to his vision, suddenly became the richest man in Hungary, so rich that it is being listed slowly in Europe and even in the world. The Hungarian State HUF 96.2 million per year [[Sic!]] pays this company for the maintenance, renovation and development of motorways. I see you're surprised, Congressman Nacha, but that's true. According to some calculations, in the 35 years the company won the freeway concession from Orbán's petty dictatorship, it could bring a profit of up to HUF 1000 billion. 1,000 billion forints! This is so much business, I said almost villainy, but it is not possible that the European Union is already looking at it itself, how Lőrinc Mészáros, László Szíjj and his associates could be given the concession rights of Hungarian motorways for 35 years. I need to talk a little bit about EU regulation here, before my fellow Members try to convince me that EU legislation gives me the opportunity to do so, because it would indeed be true, but it is not entirely true. We obviously know that EU Member States do not really need Brussels approval or authorisation to conduct concession contracts procedures. However, this is not entirely the case, but Member States, perhaps even you, orbán's system, must comply with the provisions of the 2014 EU Directive on concession contracts on transparency and that, in the case of concessions for a period of more than five years, the maximum duration of the concession should not exceed the period during which the investment is repaid to the concessionaire on the basis of reasonable assumptions. To such an extent, what you are now doing is shady, that you have also lost your case in this case, because we know very well that a civil rights protection organisation has filed a lawsuit, and although the National Concession Office wanted to hide the release of the data, it has absolutely protested against all of this, according to the final judgment of the Capital Court in March 2022, the documents will have to be published. So, look, in an hour and a half, there have been virtually two salad laws before this House, based on which they want to fill the pockets of new Orbán friends behind the cover of the law with heavy billions and even thousands of billions. I think if it's something, it's treason. I think, if anything, that's the guilty political will. I think that if there is something, that will be why you will soon have to answer for it. Thank you for listening.
u2023-05-23-104	Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, lead speaker of the KDNP. Here you go.
u2023-05-23-105	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, I would like to recommend three small letters to Congressman Varga: PPP, this construction. If it was some kind of misdemeanor, honourable Member, it was that, according to the calculation of an economic journal, the state would have saved HUF 2853 billion if it had built motorways M5 and M6 on credit and not on a PPP basis. Mr President, it did not cost that much, but it would have been cheaper. You said that the HUF 1000 billion is a lot of money, we agree, but the HUF 2853 billion that you have done to the state on paper is much more than that, honourable Member. There is also a line in this budget that is paying off your harmful PPP contracts, which we are about to pay, 13 years after your corrupt, corrupt government. Forints 2853 billion if the M5 and M6 motorways are saved by credit, the Hungarian state saves up to this day, honourable Member. It's an amazing amount, isn't it? ! Now you understand the scale, honourable Member. And that you caused this to the Hungarians. This amount is HUF 2853 billion. I am quite shocked that you are now talking about any tolls or concessions, when the most harmful PPP schemes you have made continue to be moaned by the Hungarian budget, honourable Member. I guess you didn't ask your boss how it was, Feri. However, the Member also failed to talk about the current law. It does have EU compliance and EU harmonisation. What the Secretary of State was talking about is very important. I would like to thank Mr Secretary of State for his work, starting with the transformation and formation of the Ministry of Construction and Transport. Nothing, just the usual Congressman Varga is out of the question. Business as usual, let's not worry about it. After all, we see that the present bill has been brought here by the Secretary of State because the regulatory and legislative harmonisation amendments needed in the areas of rail, water transport, air transport, road and passenger transport had to be brought before the Parliament. The bill also includes the necessary amendments to the EETS toll harmonisation. From the outset, the national Christian Democratic Government has been particularly important in the development of the railway and has put great emphasis on it. Our goal is for the Hungarian railway to regain its old legendary reputation and for Hungary to be XXI. The rail transport should be modern, comfortable and fast. There's an increasing number of electrified lines. There is an 8500 km long railway track in Hungary, of which 3220 km of electrified line. As we recall, Congressman Varga quickly ran away from the fact that, during his governance, the left caused the Hungarian railway a debt of 300 billion dollars, ended many railway lines, and, in addition to the debt, they struck the Hungarian railway with a restriction of 70 billion forints. There were discharges at the MÁV. We remember that in 2010 Hungarian people were allowed to travel on the oldest train trains in Europe. We believe that there has been a significant positive change in inter-urban community transport, and let us also report on a new development in the introduction of county leases and country leases, which can be used as of 1 May. The full 30-day leases cost HUF 9450, the country leases cost HUF 18 900, the day- and evening-school students, preschoolers over the age of 6 and the disabled get 90 percent discount for HUF 945 and HUF 1890 respectively. On the first 15 days of May, the number of county and country leases sold exceeded 300,000. It shows that it's a success story, it was a good decision. Thank you very much for the Ministry's preparatory work and decisions. I think that a lot of Hungarian people are going to work, commuting, visiting relatives, and so on, it has become cheaper in the last few weeks. Our goal is to get to every county-righted city and 11 border posts on motorway roads, and our important goal is to reach the motorway network from every settlement in Hungary with a maximum half-hour travel. The bill before us addresses the operational, regulatory and regulatory tasks relating to transport in relation to changes in the governance structure. The bill contains all the amendments to the transport sector, which are considered necessary by the profession and the transport industry, for EU harmonisation purposes, which are also included in the mobility concept of the Ministry of Construction and Transport. In view of this, the KDNP fraction will support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[16.10]]
u2023-05-23-106	It is now time for the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, Mr Ander Balázs, to give the floor. Here you go.
u2023-05-23-107	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As a better-looking Member of Parliament, I could now ask for coffee and say how glad it is that the DK representative and the KDNP pro-government representative are churning each other here. The only problem is that all this goes to the skin of the Hungarian people. What Congressman Varga has raised here on behalf of DK is entirely justified. The fact that the freeway concession, which is 35 years old, can be termed an abomination, which was also encrypted for ten years by Antalek Rogán, is estimated to add a thousand billion forints in the pocket of the Prime Minister's circle of friends in the 35-year period, and the Hungarian state will pay 8 billion forints in the 35-year period, is true, there are also obligations: 300 kilometers of motorways need to be built on another 300 kilometers, but in addition, the thousand billion forints profit that some calculations assume during the 35-year period is still a very, very good business, which would otherwise be needed elsewhere. However, my fellow Member Nacsa is right when he brings up the PPP filth of the previous regime or of the previous government. Yes, the fact that by 2040 the Hungarian state will throw out 2853 billion forints, is that correct? The only reason I see the construction of M5 and M6 as South-Transdanubian citizens is because, instead of borrowing, I see it cold every time I travel to what kind of mole-tour tunnels were drilled under, what a terrible waste of money it was, I can add that that amount, those resources, would still have been a different place. And that's what I said, yes, sitting on the right side of the opposition, not on the left, we could sit back, and then I could tell you how you guys are hitting each other. I would just like to underline once again that the game is going to be on the face of the Hungarian people. And you can laugh about it, you can cheer about it, but the fact remains a fact. I know the panel answers will come, so Gyurcsány, so Gyurcsány, left-wing cooperation, and then I will bring it up, my fellow Member Nacsa, why you liked to manipulate that electoral law so that virtually no other method would be available to the opposition, but let it be. Let's talk facts, then. Secretary of State, there is a lot to support in this bill. I've been through it, and there are a lot of things in it that we should say from Jobbik's benches that we should support, because this is in the interests of Hungary, the Hungarian nation. But you always make that mistake, or you make that mistake a lot of times, and I don't know how to put it, to present to us, in the form of a salad law, things that we couldn't swallow otherwise. I've already brought a very, very strange metaphor once, when, let's say, a co-host would like to have a nice menu set for this comparison, bring it to the guest, but he would make one in the middle, and he would expect, as he does now, one or another of my fellow members of the government, that we should eat it with a good appetite and get a good look at it. We would like to add, I would like to say once again, there are many elements of this which must be supported, but please excuse me, sir, and allow us to have something that we say no to, and, among other things, to draw attention to the fact that there is a huge problem here with the freeway process and the legislative amendments related to it. But then let us also look at what could be supported, something or something that we could add a few constructive suggestions to. It's almost 1:00. §2 of the bill deals with the activities of the post-training professionals. Then let me refer to the Prime Minister's words, who said in 2006 that driving is not a luxury, but a livelihood, and therefore its costs must be significantly reduced. And if it is post-training or training, I would like to ask you to hear on the pro-government side the complaints and woes of those driving schools that draw attention to the fact that the percentage of applicants in the simple category B licence has fallen by 50 percent. In the case of large machines, so let's say, for those who wish to obtain C and D licenses, which would move and sustain the economy, there is an 80% reduction at national level. And the news is that, let's say, BATON Transport Hungary is looking for Indian women in Hungary, and they say that 800 Indian women will be able to be hired, and that they would receive a monthly payment of EUR 1800 for their work, and that the employer would also finance the acquisition of the license. Secretary of State: would you consider a system in which, say, to support Hungarian citizens in some form of state support, with significant support, because it is sometimes a matter of excessive amounts, but would you make it available and please also provide details about this, such as the acquisition of C and D licenses? [[For signal:]] I know you've had it, so let's do it again. In the case of category B: yes, it is very welcome that you contributed 25 thousand forints to enable young people to obtain a B licence, only the fact is that since then the prices have run a little bit, and in the lower voice it could cost 450-500 thousand forints such a training, and there are a lot of parents who simply can't take it in today's situation, so you should give some answer to that too. When the bill is about clarifying certain road traffic violations, the rules for the on-site procedure, we say that this is absolutely all right. Yes, the culture of transport is as it is in Hungary, there is something to be improved with such regulators. Then a lifelike example, and a proposal that warms the soul of many citizens or citizens dealing with it, when it is written that the vehicle issued by the museum certification body with a valid museum vehicle certificate certifying the museum certification of vehicles is exempted from the obligation to have an individual authorisation for placing on the market issued by the transport authority in Hungary in the first place of placing on the market. So you have reached a social level that we can say again that this is right, that is a good thing, but I would also like to make a constructive suggestion here. There is also a so-called tuning car, offroad, rally social group in Hungary, who spend considerable money to sacrifice this passion, this hobby. Usually they're citizens, they're vigilant citizens, but the current regulatory system looks like they're practically screwing them to death, and it's got to be said, it's so bureaucratic. Let's say, when they want to put in a stronger brake, a sports-running machine, or maybe a planting spring to say such things, their work becomes incredibly difficult, even though these citizens should not be harmed, and let's say, the Czech or German regulations should be followed here instead of making their fate practically difficult with all kinds of bureaucratic obstacles. The next point was point 9 and I'm sorry, I jumped, I don't want to list all of them here, the bill makes the clarification necessary for changing the model of financing the Hungarian toll system. Oops! That's what I started with, and I said, technically, if you lead this to us in the form of a salad law, then we can't accept it, we can't even press for a stay, although what bothers you, obviously that's obvious, so you're going to pass, so I don't want to play the naive one here. Let me give you some suggestions, though. With regard to the ten-day freeway sticker, we always say that we need a one-day, indeed one-day motorway sticker in Hungary, because for those who, let's say, only come up to Budapest for half a day or go somewhere to do business, this could be a serious help, and indeed, such a family sticker could be introduced here. It should be added that the annual motorway sticker is the most expensive in Hungary, and if you look at average salaries, then it should be said that the Hungarian car society is being brutally sabotaged by the government. [[16.20]] Returning then to the words of Viktor Orbán, what he said in 2006 that driving is not a luxury. Well, it certainly looks like it is, because an average car driver in Hungary leaves 38 thousand forints a month, and it leaves a very modest calculation in the budget register in the form of VAT, excise duty and such charges if he wants to have a car and he can use it. It's not for luxury purposes, it's just because it's the 21st. In the first century, this is practically an essential tool. So it would be very good if you paid more attention to Hungarian society in this regard, Mr Secretary of State, and tried to ease these burdens in some way. Because to quote the exact figures, the price of the ten-day free-way sticker price rose from HUF 3820 to HUF 5500, the fee of HUF 5210 per month for a plain passenger car became HUF 8900, so it was a pretty steep price increase, so to put it this way. Then, it was mentioned here, and really only because there are elements to support in this bill, I would like to point out, so when they talk about intermodal nodes, when they say that there is a significant public interest that the starting and end points involved in rail freight are treated with a high degree of cargo terminal, container terminal, logistics centres, and we can say that yes, although I would like to ask a question here that, say, also in passenger transport, these end points will be properly managed. And, Mr Secretary of State, if I may say, your answer would be in one minute: what resolution on the Western Railway Station would you be able to state to us now, what ideas do you have? Because it would affect not only people in Budapest, but also a lot of rural people, and many people were afraid that those development plans would fall into one well, which they did. Then, if we see, say, about passenger transport, 57. The Jobbik-Conservatives can say, as a party to the legitimate order, that this is a good and welcome thing when the ticket inspector is from citizens who might need to be pushed off the trains with a pair of feet, but they are also protected in this form; but at such times we always ask the question I know that it is not the duty of the Secretary of State to answer it, but I might put a bug in the ears of government representatives - if there are many cases of railway ticketers, there may be body cameras, then why is it not feasible for police personnel? Yes, that would be a deterrent. Secretary of State, at the end of the day, it's really just such a comprehensive question, which I'm sure there won't be an answer that will be acceptable: why should such salad laws be submitted to Parliament? Obviously, I know, or at least there's such a prejudice on my part, because when we say no, they can point back. But they never add that the opposition said no to this package of laws or proposals for this one point. In fact, if they were to play fairer, more open cards, then I think that political public sentiment in Hungary could be improved precisely by separating things from each other in such a bill, otherwise on some level. But you know very well that there are some that, in addition to the greatest constructivity, are a kind of red or red line in the eyes of the opposition or part of the opposition, which is why we cannot support. I am very sorry, by the way, because there are indeed a number of forward-looking elements in this bill. Thank you for your attention and I look forward to the answers of Mr Secretary of State.
u2023-05-23-108	The lead speaker of the Group of our countries, Mr István Szabadi, who indicated in advance that he would speak from the platform. I give you the floor, Congressman, please.
u2023-05-23-109	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, This bill also points out that the budget for 2023 is in trouble, as in the first quarter the deficit of the central subsystem of public finances was HUF 2089.7 billion, which represents 61 percent of the planned deficit of HUF 3400 billion for the whole year. Why am I saying this? For this reason, the government seems to be doing everything it can to increase revenues, for example, on the basis of the bill, a drastic increase in the fees for air traffic authorities that have not been changed in the last six years. At present, the Air Transport Authority's tasks are performed by the Deputy State Secretary of the Ministry of Construction and Transport, and will certainly provide the same service and standards in exchange for an average of ten times the fee. The Hungarian Movement agrees with the charges for wholesale air carriers and the multi-national aircraft component manufacturing companies. The latter, for example, are Diehl Aviation, based in Germany, whose birbátor plant was supported by the government last year by HUF 867 million. However, it is a surprising measure that, on the basis of the bill, the annual supervisory fee of the aviation meteorological service operating within the National Meteorological Service has increased to the greatest extent, from 100,000 to 5 million forints. That's a pretty big raise. In addition, the state-owned HungaroControl Zrt., which carries out national air traffic control and training of air traffic staff, is a state-owned task. Your expenses will increase several times as a result of the bill. However, we do not support the increase in fees for maintenance organisations operating at small airports, which maintain hobby, sport and agricultural aircraft. In their case, a fee increase is also a problem because a service provider that also maintains several types of aircraft, such as parachutes, parachutes and gliders, has to pay the increased fee separately for each category, which means multiple additional costs. This contributes to the current lack of resources in the sector, and these maintenance companies are in a very difficult situation. Given that there is a significant increase in charges, the Mi Hazank Movement suggests that if an organisation operating an aircraft has fewer than four aircraft in more weight categories, but the total number of aircraft exceeds five, it should receive a concession. I would particularly like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to this. Dear fellow Members, An important objective is to reduce the noise burden. We agree that the government will take the necessary measures, at least at legislative level, as a result of the increased protest caused by the public noise burden on people living in the vicinity of airports. The bill standardises the requirement for the development of noise protection zones, does not indicate a separate safety and noise protection zone or a more noisy area, but makes it clear that an adequate noise protection zone should be established against all noisey activities related to aviation. In our view, it would be necessary to drastically reduce noise effects in order to avoid damage to health caused by noise, because the number of passenger and freight transport machines in the Liszt Ferenc International Airport is increasing. Dear Parliament, However, there are quite a few points of concern in this bill. On the basis of the bill, dispatching and organising the personal taxi service will have to record the name of the passenger, the time of order, the place of departure and the destination, the date of departure and arrival, the name of the driver, the vehicle registration number, the name of the undertaking operating the vehicle, its location and the amount of the fare. According to the explanatory memorandum, the amendment is necessary because the provisions on the mandatory processing of the dispatch service are currently contained in the taxi regulation. The info law and GDPR only allow mandatory data processing to be required by law, i.e. there is currently an illegal situation. The current taxi regulation requires dispatch services to record orders by recording or writing, not specifying the type of data. By amending the law, however, the amount of the taxi service provider and service becomes clearly identifiable, which data can be perfectly suitable for a NAV verification. [[16.30]] This is supported by the fact that the dispatch services will have to keep the data for three months and will have to be made available at the request of the control authority. Although the amendment of the Cata Law did not affect taxi drivers, the government intends to subject taxi operators to closer controls, for example by complying with their obligation to use online cash registers. I'd just like to say that it's a long time ago, let's say, to connect casinos with the NAV. Well, we do not agree that the passenger's name is intended to be recorded in writing in order to protect his rights. The registration and transfer of departure and destination, departure and arrival to public authorities may lead to damage to personal rights, not to mention respect for privacy. In order to protect consumer rights, it is sufficient to make sound recordings that are still working. We object to the fact that the basic rate of tolls will be determined by the government by regulation instead of the bill, e.g. on the basis of the proposal of the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office led by Antal Rogán and the Ministry of Finance. We are also opposed to the fact that the M0 motorway has pay-per-view sections, so you have to buy a county sticker, even if someone uses only these sections occasionally. In our view, the M0 motorway should be completely free, as its basic purpose is to remove traffic from the city. For example, certain points in the bill contain legal clarifications regarding the fact that, according to a provision in force from January last year, the posting declarations of Hungarian drivers employed as workers posted in Hungary by an economic operator established in the territory of another Member State during road inspections cannot be verified, not only by foreigners. We agree with the clarification, but we object to why this was only done more than a year after the transposition of EU legislation. What about those Hungarian truckers who have been illegally inspected and punished? Overall, the MiHazák Movement is concerned about the bill before us in a number of points, despite the fact that it has some forward-looking ideas. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2023-05-23-110	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We now have two-minute speeches. Congressman Ander Balázs from Jobbik. Here you go.
u2023-05-23-111	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Mr. Secretary. There's one more thing. You mentioned railway safety in your presentation. Well, what does this look like? Not long ago, János Lázár announced great transparency to the construction players, and technical control will be a very, very good test of this. And then here's a compliment from the opposition side, because we don't usually experience this from the government, for example, that your Deputy State Secretary, Artúr Kikina, was brave enough to summarize in 19 points the complaints raised by the MÁV, which he transmitted to Mészáros' company, R-KARD. What's this about? This so-called GSM-R rail development would be a telecommunications IT development, the 21st century. From the point of view of security in the century, this would be a really important thing. An EU source of HUF 59 billion was available for this, and then, it looks like they're pushing it with HUF 17 billion national forints so that the burden of increased prices and other extra expenses doesn't hit poor Lurch Mészáros. Well, it may also be that the 59 billion item will be excluded from the IKOP, that it will also be covered by national resources only because there have been a number of problems with the implementation of this project, and the fact is that, in any case, Lőrinc Mészáros's company, its companies, could be excluded from public procurement for another five years if they prove to be real. The Mezozombor-Miskolc, Füzesabony-Miskolc, Füzesabony-Sixty lines have had very serious problems. To put it euphemistically, they kind of skimmed the iron out of the reinforced concrete, for example. This could be said quite differently, however, according to the 19-point list of complaints, it is safe to say that they did brazen work, Master Mekk could perhaps have done something like this. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The Balázs's radio programme was not so long ago announced as the so-called "coker's club," so Lőrinc Mészáros could probably enter it. I'd still like to hear the answer to that. Thank you.
u2023-05-23-112	I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] Since I do not see a candidate, the general debate is closed. I'll ask the author. [[For signal:]] Mr. Secretary of State indicates that you wish to take advantage of this opportunity. So I give the floor to Mr. Bálint the Great Secretary of State, please.
u2023-05-23-113	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Dear fellow Members, Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank you very much for your comments, but before I go to the answers, let me also respond to the suggestion made by Congressman Varga, although it is not easy, so I can now see that today, too, is usually what he is doing, saying something and then running away, but I will respond to his suggestion. There is no provision for motorway concessions in the regulations, and above all there is the harmonisation of the toll system in the EU, as in the draft law itself, as it is about the transposition of new EU legislation in Hungarian practice. However, measures to improve road safety, provisions to improve the quality of public transport services and to further achieve and improve environmental objectives are mentioned in the draft proposal; and it also takes into account the fact that the draft new provision introduces the concept of travel rights and the concept of electronic identification for transport. Dear fellow Members, In the comments, we turned away from the item on a number of issues, but although I was prepaid that I would not answer the questions about this, I will use the time to answer it. First of all, I'd like to, although it doesn't belong directly to the material, but I'd like to respond to a few more issues. Firstly, what other facilitations we are planning to make for, for example, easier access to a driver's license for trucks, I can say that we are also preparing proposals on B to obtain a category D licence or a GKI revision test, and we will soon be able to provide a report on them which, I think, will affect the market in substance and will help both employees and employers in substance. And with regard to the Western Railway Station, I can tell you the reassuring news that the works are still taking place. The MÁV has started the renovation work, these are taking place. The source is available, and by autumn of this year the development is planned to be completed. I would also like to add so much clarification, Mr President, that we are talking about building, expanding and bringing to the level of the motorway concession, not 300, but more than 1000 kilometres. I hope that, whether it concerns the agenda or not, I have answered. So thank you again, everyone, for your constructive contributions and for your support. Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Ander Balázs intervenes.]]
u2023-05-23-114	I would like to inform my fellow Members that it is possible to submit amendments by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the bill on the Hungarian Corvin Chain and the Hungarian Corvin Chain Board will follow. Government referral T/4024. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr. Miklós Soltész, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda, in a 30-minute time frame, who will speak from the platform. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2023-05-23-115	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, After the Hungarian Order of St. Stephen, the Hungarian Corvin chain is the next highest-ranking state award for recognition of outstanding merits in the fields of Hungarian science and art and the promotion of Hungarian education and culture. After 58 years, the Hungarian Corvin chain award was re-established during the first Orbán government. In 2001, twelve others received the medal. They deserve respect, so I list them: János Balogh zoologist; Zoltán Kallós ethnographer; Sándor Lámfalussy economist; László Lovász mathematician; János Lukács historian; Imre Makovecz architect; István Nemeskürty literary historian; György Oláh chemist; Magda Szabó writer; Sándor Sándor Szokolay composer; Ede Teller; Vilmos Zsigmond cameraman. László Lovász is still alive, and God rest the rest of them. After 2002, after the change of government, the Gyurcsány government did not initiate the donation of any medals, all this was stopped. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Shame!]] In 2012, five people received the award again: Zsolt Bor physicist; István Jelenits piarist monk, teacher; Zoltán Kocsis pianist, conductor, God rest his soul! - ; Éva Marton is an opera singer and Vizi E. New Year's Eve doctor, brain researcher. [[16.40]] Then, in 2018, he received the award of seven other awards: Péter Huszti actor, Miklós Maróth orientalist, academic, János Martonyi Minister of Foreign Affairs, Miklós Melocco sculptor, György Radda biochemist, Zsigmond Ritoók classic philologist, academic and Péter Sótonyi doctor, academic. Currently, as a result of the rules, 12 members of the Hungarian Corvin chain have the honour: Vizi E. Szilveszter Széchenyi-nagyártási doctor, research professor, member of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and former president of the Hungarian Corvin chain Board; Marton Éva Kossuth-nagyárási építés építés, Emerita lecturer of the Liszt Ferenc Zeneművészeti Egyetem, vice-president of the Hungarian Corvin chain Board; Bor Zsolt Széchenyi-nagyártó physicist, member of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, member of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, member of the university of the university of the university of the university of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, member of the university; Huszti Péter Miksszter-szter, member of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and professor emeritus; Jelenits István Széchenyi-nayi-nagyi-nagyi-nagyi-nagyényi-nagyi-nagyárszényiszószélószélószítószélőlőlő, outstandingágágágágágágágágágágágágágágágágágálló, Hungarian Artist; Éló, Hungarian Artist, Hungarian Artist, Hungarian Artist, Hungarian Artist, Hungarian Artist, Hungarian Artist, Hungarian Artist of the Hungarian Academy of the Hungarian Academy of the Hungarian Academy of the Hungarian Academy of the Hungarian Academy of the Hungarian Academy of the Hungarian Academy of the Hungarian Academy of the Hungarian Academy of the Hungarian Academy of the Hungarian Academy of the Hungarian Academy of the Hungarian Academy of the Hungarian Academy of the Hungarian Academy of the Hungarian Academy of the Hungarian Academy of the Hungarian Academy of the Hungarian Academy of the Hungarian Academy of the Hungarian Academy of the Hungarian Academy of the Hungarian Academy of the Hungarian Academy of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, the Hungarian Academy, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Hungarian Academy of Sciences, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Sz The Corvin chain awards constitute the Hungarian Corvin Chain Board. The body is working to boost science and arts as well as Hungarian national education and culture, and is guarding the authority of the Hungarian Corvin chain award. The panel gives its opinion on the draft state decisions concerning Hungarian science, literature, art, education, culture and all other areas it considers important. It also monitors the situation of Hungarian scientific and artistic life, culture, education and culture, and in this context it may make a proposal of public interest and publish a public resolution. Some administrative and organisational tasks related to the Corvin chain are carried out by the Hungarian Corvin Chain Office, which has worked until now within the organizational framework of the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office. Dear House, The purpose of this bill is to strengthen the consistency of the legislation on the Hungarian Corvin Chain, the Hungarian Corvin Chain Board and the Hungarian Corvin Chain Office and to maintain the authority of the Hungarian Corvin Chain. To this end, the bill sets out and combines the provisions on the Corvin chain currently contained in two laws and in a fragmented manner in a government decree. At the same time, the bill retains the current regulatory principles governing Hungary's state medals essentially unchanged for the Corvin chain, so that consistency and continuity remain ensured in terms of content in the system of state medals. The Hungarian Corvin chain, as it has been so far, is then donated by the President of the Republic on the basis of the presentation of the Prime Minister. The bill also provides for the future that the Corvin Chain Office will continue to carry out its duties in the organisation of the Sándor Palace. The head of the Corvin Chain Office will be appointed by the President of the Republic on the basis of the bill. The bill does not affect the facts, circumstances or legal relationships existing at the time of entry into force, so the Corvin Chain Board will continue to function as it remains intact as the current Chairman and Vice-President of the Corvin Chain Board and the current Corvin Chain Office leaders, so the persons currently holding these posts will remain in office after the entry into force of the bill. Dear Parliament, The number of persons donated by the Corvin chain at the same time shall not exceed 15. As I mentioned earlier, the number of people awarded with the Corvin chain is currently twelve, so in the near future it may be due to make or propose new awards, recognising the outstanding merits of boosting Hungarian science and art, as well as Hungarian education and culture. The Corvin chain may be submitted to a person supported by the body. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the above, I ask you to vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-23-116	Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Maria Kállai, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go. [[Resume in 67.2!]] 2022-2026. parliamentary term Budapest, Tuesday 23 May 2023 67/2. Number Parliamentary Diary
u2023-05-23-117	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Dear House, The purpose of the draft law before us, as we have heard from the Secretary of State, is to legislate the legal provisions on the Hungarian Corvin chain, the Hungarian Corvin chain body and the Hungarian Corvin chain office and to cultivate the authority of the Corvin chain, as the draft law itself literally states:, the higher level of protection of the values represented by the Corvin chain body. At present, regulations are fragmented in two laws and one government decree. The bill before us puts the provisions on the Corvin chain into a new, independent law, but it must be said that the content is not substantially affected, and so unity and continuity are ensured. As I have already said, we have set a double purpose in the law: regulation in a law in order to avoid duplication and to care for the authority of the Corvin chain. Dear Parliament, It is also an uplifting moment when we will decide to introduce such recognition into a separate law, and it is essential to talk about the social role and task of recognition. We can ask why such medals are necessary, why society can be strengthened by recognising creative minds and outstanding achievements for the nation, for the Hungarian people, for humanity. If we consider it important to build a nation, then the answer to this question is very simple, because in this way the responsible nation appreciates its outstanding performance in the community, and the appreciation of the community itself also encourages outstanding performances, the ability to make it outstanding. This makes a community, we can say, stronger, better, more valuable, and, last but not least, richer with an important feeling called national pride. To think, since 1948 there has been a Kossuth Prize, since 1990 there has been a Széchenyi Prize, since 2004 a nation's athlete, since 2014 a nation's artist, we could list our prestigious awards, and, as we have heard from the Secretary of State, the Corvin Chain, unfortunately, was created on the proposal of one of the greatest educational ministers of our history, Kuno Klebelsberg. [[16.50]] In 2001, the Orbán government re-established it, and if we think about the people, the personalities listed by the Secretary of State, I think that we think of all of them with great respect and respect, among them great people such as Kunóra Klebelsberg, Geographer Pál Teleki, composer Ernő Dohnányi, ethnographer Zoltán Kaló, poet Sándor Reményik, composer Ferenc Lehár, architect Imre Makovecz, literary historian István Nemeskürty, writer Magda Szabó, world-famous physicist Ede Teller, photographer Vilmos Zsigmond, pianist Zoltán Kocsis, actor Péter Huszti, opera singer Éva Marton, opera singer E. Szilvester, brain researcher strengthens this line, and we can list of the whole list; it is a collection of all around the world. They have made our nation more, richer and stronger, and I think that it will also strengthen the economic competitiveness of the country, the nation. Sadly, it has to be noted that, not continuing this centuries-old tradition, this award was not unacceptable in the period of communism and the liberal governments after 2001. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Shame!]] The nation's love and thanks can never become a political instrument, cannot be a victim of any political interest. Dear House, The Corvin chain is one of the most important recognitions that Hungary can donate. The awardees include outstanding personalities, creators, scientists and artists of our country. In the draft law before us, the change compared to the current regulation, that the Hungarian Corvin Chain Office will operate in the organization of the Sándor Palace instead of the Prime Minister's Cabinet office, will be appointed by the President of the Republic. The bill does not affect the facts, circumstances or legal relationships existing at the time of its entry into force, so the body will continue to function unchanged and remain intact, as the Secretary of State has said, the current chairman and vice-chairman of the Corvin Chain Board, as well as the office of the current head of the office. The persons currently in office will therefore remain in office after the entry into force of the bill. The Corvin chain office's operation with the working organisation of the head of state embodying the unity of the nation means strengthening independence. Through the bill, the Corvin Chain Office will go where it best belongs: the Sándor Palace, which is not involved in party political debates, is the working organisation of the highest public dignity. Dear House, I would like to recall to everyone, towards the end of the lead speaker's thoughts, which are indeed the public tasks of the Corvin Chain Corps. The body is working to boost science and arts, as well as Hungarian national education and culture; it can express its opinion, form an approach, form public thinking, make suggestions in the public interest regarding the planning of state decisions in the fields of Hungarian science, literature, art, education, culture and all other areas which it considers important, and publish a public resolution. Of course, he also expressed his opinion that the person involved in the request to donate the Corvin chain was worthy and worthy of the Corvin chain. Ladies and Gentlemen, Let us be proud of the fact that we can continue to strengthen the heritage of the Hungarian nation for a century, to preserve the spirituality of generations, as well as a body that forms for Hungary's rise. The Fidesz faction of course supports the draft law, I respectfully ask for the completeness of the Hungarian Parliament, support the adoption of the draft law, and jointly appreciate the outstanding achievements at international level. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-23-118	The lead speaker of the DK Group, Mrs Olga Kálmán, who had indicated in advance that she was speaking on the pulpit. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2023-05-23-119	Thank you, Madam President. As an eternal optimist, I always think that you can no longer surprise this country. And then I always have to realize that I don't have the imagination that you can't overcome. There's no need to spend money, rags they can't top. There is no heartless, heartless, failing people, ignoring people's real problems, dilettious government that they couldn't put another shovel on. Unfortunately, for 13 years, they have demonstrated week after week that you are not serving your country, but your own power, and you are not feeling sorry for the billions of public money. They have their favourite court musicians and actors, and they have plenty of money to support a performance by state; if anyone doesn't have enough, they get a university of theatre. They have their favorite historians, and they have money for a history forgery lectures and volumes; and if anyone doesn't have enough, they get a research institute or even a whole museum. They have their favourite construction companies, and they have plenty of money to overcharge a state investment; if someone doesn't have enough, they get another bank, a media empire, some castles, camping or half of Balaton. And they have their favorite state credit. But if not enough of what has existed for decades, they will resurrect one from the dark historical past. With a strange sense, they always think of a historical time that doesn't remind us of this country's glorious past. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Klebelsberg Kunó!]] Well, that's what happens when you listen to your own well-paid court historians, and you don't ask for the opinion of the profession as a whole. Of course, it may also be that this obsession of the Prime Minister himself with the dark past, and friendly historians are just trying to meet the client's expectations. You didn't listen to professional criticism in 2001 when the first Orbán government re-established the Corvin chain medal. But they knew precisely that the only purpose of the recognition originally established in 1930 by Governor Miklós Horthy was to keep the leading figures of Hungarian science and art in a narrow elite club supporting the system. Is this a sample for the Prime Minister? Do we have to keep the system supporters in an elite club, not regardless of party sympathy, the excellence, but the supporters of your system? Don't get me wrong, there are many excellent scientists, researchers and artists in this country, whose work has to be properly recognised by the state. There's a proper state medal for that, but you needed another one from the past. Therefore, the Corvin chain was resurrected for the second time in 2011. And not only did they need to resuscitate the institution itself, but they even saffroned the Corvin Chain Board, which was able to move to a fork house renovated from HUF 6 billion at the beginning of the year. In the historic building, besides the music and cigar room, suites were built with public money. Elevators were added to the renovated villa, representative spaces, offices, conference rooms, dining room, and guest suites and a music room were added to the attic, including pianos for about 10 million forints. Over 300 million went to the furniture and curtains. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] They have never been able to give a single sensible answer as to what needs to be the award of a state medal, not performing daily operational work, virtually only every leap year, otherwise a 12-person body operating in home office has a lavishly furnished office building of 2,200 square meters. 2,200 square meters, i.e. 183 square meters for each member of the 12-person board. I can't imagine what they're doing there. We mortals on Earth believe that when a 12-man gremlin meets, consults, they sit around a table in a room. Well, NER's system doesn't have such cost-saving Puritans. At a table? A table and 12 chairs? Ah, come on! If we're going to buy furniture with public money, then let's give it a way. So they managed to buy almost 500 pieces of furniture, so that the Corvin Chain Corps would have a nice villa when they wanted to meet each other every few years. [[17.00]] Among the half-thousand furniture are 236 seats, of which 12 are dated copies, 80 tables, 84 cabinets, 10 beds, 2 racks, 5 mirrors. Along with home textiles, 23 carpets and 36 curtains, this cost taxpayers 304 million forints. And this isn't the end of the rags, because it's not fair that members of the 12-man board, if they meet every three or four years, they're staring at the empty walls on the 2,200 square meters. So he's a one-man actress because, well, what else? With public procurement, for a net amount of 275 million, the walls were decorated nicely: 72 works of art were acquired by the board. These include 47 paintings, 7 sculptures, 5 stands, 11 ornaments and 2 mirrors. The list included the painting of László Mednyánszky, Gusztáv Keleti, Béla Czóbel. You spent 6 billion forints on the meeting place of a 12-person body not performing daily operational work for the award of a state medal; the body whose members meet every three to four years. I know that for NER knights the 6 billion is almost small, so much is left hanging from the Hungarian taxpayers in one overpriced public procurement, not to mention that due to inflation in Orbán, the state makes a good profit in the brutal food price increase with its record high VAT revenue. Hungarian people can buy less and less in shops for more and more money. And why is that? So that you can spread your budget surplus to your luxury friends, luxury villas, cigar rooms, curtains, suites as you please. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Small fork!]] You are completely disoriented from Hungarian reality! They may have read it somewhere, but they did not give too much importance to the average salary of a nurse in Hungary today: 310 thousand forints. And that's the average. What you've all applauded on your Corvin Chain Corps is 19 354 nurses' one month's salary. [[Robert Zsigó: So many ventilators!]] But I'll tell you another way, in case you manage to take him in: for this money, a medical nurse works 1612 years; that's all he has to do. If I still haven't reached their very high stimuli threshold, I'll give you another ratio: 1612 years means at least 20 generations. Let's see what it means to make a Corvin chain fork in ordinary people's lives. A Hungarian nurse would have to work 73 years for paintings and standing watches; so much for carpets and furniture. You like to point out to Brussels that the evil bureaucrats, whose crime is that they won't let the Hungarian government steal EU money, well, you don't think they're the reason why Hungarian teachers don't have a raise. Are you aware of the average salary of a Hungarian educator after 40 years of service and exam? The average! 400,000 forints. What you have wasted so far on the fork building of the Corvin Chain Corps is the average salary of 15,000 Hungarian teachers. The paintings and mirrors could be purchased from 685 teachers' monthly salaries. This government refuses to raise the family allowance of HUF 12 200 to my shame, but Viktor Orbán's favourite Corvin-chain Board spent the one-month family allowance of 491 803 without blinking. This HUF 6 billion is a family allowance of 40,983 years per family. They often boast about the 6 percent pension increase in January, which meant an average of 12 thousand forints. Of course, they are deeply silent about 25 percent inflation and over 40 percent food price increases. Well, out of these 6 billion forints they could have given a pensioner 500 thousand months of extra pension, which would mean 42 years of 6 percent increase, or 500 thousand pensioners could have been given a month's extra pension with this money. But that's not what they did. And let us not forget that exactly 6 billion has not yet been paid to the capital for the reconstruction of the Chain Bridge. Well, I hope I have been able to explain to you clearly how many ways they could have spent this 6 billion forints to improve the lives of Hungarian people. Instead, the Corvin chain is cherished with nostalgia in the Horthy era as a body, with fork and fancy furniture. At the moment, the law on state medals would be rewritten and, from June onwards, Viktor Orbán's favorite public body, which consumes billions of public money, would operate in the organization of the Office of the President of the Republic, the Sándor Palace. It doesn't matter, because at the end of the day, Viktor Orbán decides who can get a Corvin chain and who can consult at 80 tables, between 84 cabinets, 10 beds, 2 teeth, 5 mirrors, 72 artifacts, and who can play a mind-sleeping melody on the 10 million-dollar piano after resting the effort of the meeting in the cigar room. This villa was made of so much money, which is the average salary of 15,000 teachers a month; for which a Hungarian health care professional would have to work 1612 years; which could mean a 6 percent increase for an average Hungarian pensioner for 42 years. I would like to make it clear that the Democratic Coalition does not support your luxurious and disdainful policy, and so does the current amendment of the law. And you can be sure that the new Hungarian democratic government led by Dobrev Klára [[Nacsa Lawrence: It is, really.]] You will immediately stop this kind of money and you will find those responsible. Thank you very much. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: May I threaten you? Robert Zsigó: It must be bad enough for you... Sándor Font: Nice speech!]]
u2023-05-23-120	Thank you. I give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-05-23-121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, We heard quite a shocking verbal rampage from Congresswoman Olga Kálmán, an independent, objective journalist, one of Ferenc Gyurcsány's personal favorites. The fact is, honourable Member, that you are trying to falsify history, like your MSZMP ancestors, are trying to create a class fight in culture like their MSZMP ancestors, trying to label who is a good tenor or who is a good atomic physicist, or who is a good scientist and who is bad, as their MSZMP and communist ancestors are, in 2023 I think it is quite outrageous. Let's see that you were talking about 6 billion forints, you broke down 6 billion forints in a lot of ways, you just didn't switch to respirators... [[Kálmán Olga: You've already shredded the papers!]] It could have been, let me explain this to you in a different way: you stole nearly 30 times the amount from the 4th metro project. [[Miklós Soltész to Olga Kálmán: Don't smile!]] You have OLAF paper that you have a sealed EU paper on the fact that 167 billion forints were stolen from the 4th metro case, nearly 30 times the amount that has migrated into your friends' pockets, honourable Member. There is OLAF paper on this, the European Union has issued the seal. 167 billion forints were stolen from the 4th metro investment! That is nearly 30 times that amount, honourable Member. Let's light up this amount in another way. Ferenc Gyurcsány lives in a Jewish family villa with his wife, your shadow minister. This was confiscated in the early 1990s and to make it legal in the early 1990s, honourable Member, it was a market and fair price to you that you had access to the giant fork in the middle of Rózsadomb for 9 million forints, Ferenc Gyurcsány and his wife, which only had to pay 10 percent of the price, honourable Member. So 900 thousand forints had to be paid, and the rest had to be paid for 25 years. [[Miklós Soltész to Kálmán Olga: Listen!]] We heard the Ferenc Gyurcsánys claim to sell the villa. We make an offer, Ferenc Gyurcsány do not fail, we are happy to buy it for HUF 9 million for the benefit of the Hungarian public, and so it does not fail a penny. Because the cards were still turned in such a depraved way that Ferenc Gyurcsány and his wife got access to the confiscated, stolen villa, honourable Member. Nine million forints, 10 percent of which were paid at the beginning. I think that we are throwing this together so that the Hungarian nation can benefit from the fork on which the misery of countless blood and countless human lives is attached, honourable Member. [[17.10]] You come in here, you insult Kuno Klebelsberg's inheritance, you say those people; you call Father István Jelenits a henchman, or [[Kálmán Olga: Did I tell you? Did I say that?]] This is what you did, honourable Member, Mrs Miklós Melocco or Magda Szabó and so on [[Kálmán Olga: Shall I say it again?]] He spoke about the actors of Hungarian history, Hungarian culture and Hungarian literature, honourable Member, who spoke about those involved in Hungarian scientific life, to whom you are in no way fit for your work, honourable Member, so let us be clear on that. The fact that you're accusing these people, listed by the Secretary of State, says they're your little elite club. [[Kálmán Olga: Is there a problem with understanding text?]] He said, "The elite club of your little supporters," he said literally, honourable Member. [[Kálmán Olga: No!]] It is the task of the Corvin chain to represent Hungary at national and international level, because these people have put something on the table of Hungarian science, world science, culture, which is an achievement to be used for, therefore, they are world-famous, and in countless places where they live, where they are, where they show their scientific work, their artistic work, and there they are aging the news of the Hungarian nation. I understand that this concept is contrary to your understanding, because wherever you can, you abuse your own country, so if you travel to Washington, Brussels, Egypt, South America, Australia, your program is to dishonor Hungary, your own country and your own people. These respectable people have the goal of improving Hungary's reputation, and that is what they do as decorated by the Corvin chain. This is also their task, in fact, the moral recognition that goes with it, Madam honourable Member, is to make our country's reputation aging and to try to represent our country in the national and international situations in which they are placed on the basis of their performance. I think that not only is it not worthy of the Parliament, but not even of DK, but that is very low, honourable Member. [[Kálmán Olga: What is the bottom of it?]] DK. [[Kálmán Olga: Yeah! I thought you were talking about Fidesz...]] The fact is, Madam honourable Member, that you think that you will be a very big lecturer on the Orbán regime if you insult an internationally renowned opera singer, academic, composer, chemist and physicist. I don't think that's what it's gonna be, honourable Member. I have nothing against that, and I am always prepared to debate with you here in Parliament, too, if we can conflict arguments, and you are paid to disagree with the government as opponents, to make better proposals, but what you have just done in the last quarter of an hour, I think, is the achievement of the lowest of recent years, honourable Member. [[Kálmán Olga intervenes.]] I ask you to think about this, and instead correct what you said in another speech, because it is possible to argue, to disagree, but it is not possible to use such noble goals to kick our feet again, because it is our job obligation to tolerate it, but not those people who have done great work not only on the table of the Hungarian nation, but also on the table of the whole world, honourable Member. It would be very important for us to be able to speak more normally in this, and not to listen to such a speech here in Parliament, which you have made here in your previous speech. The fact that we recognise people like you is that there are state medals, yes, honourable Member; we are not honoring Peter Gergényi like you, yes, there is a huge difference in that. Your government has aggressored eyeballs, and we are internationally renowned, respected members of scientific and cultural life, that is a huge difference! I believe that this hurts you, and I believe that you would like to honor Peter Gergényi a thousand times more than István Jelenits or New Year's Eve Vizi, I believe you, but please do not use the work of such a body for the purposes of daily petty party politics. You've done enough damage by shutting down the Corvin Chain Corps office in 2002, shutting down the award. You should never again refer to Kuno Klebelsberg in this Chamber when you have done so, and you would do so now, if you had the power in your hands. It was Kunó Klebelsberg who initiated the establishment of this award as a cult minister, school builder, a great reformer, and, by the way, the winner of this award, together with the later Prime Minister, Pál Teleki, that you should not refer to Kuno Klebelsberg in educational debate, pedagogical debate, anywhere, when his legacy was trampled in 2002 and ever since. You refused to operate this office for eight years, you refused to give this medal, this very high-ranking medal, this internationally renowned and highly respected medal, but even when the Hungarian electorate told you four times not to go near the bar, in four successive elections you were told to get as far away from the bar as possible. And they're right where they are because they're doing things like this because our history is being abused, our national greats are being dishonored, and the fact is that traditions, history, our values, nothing is sacred to you. That is why not only four times, but five times, six times and seven times, the Hungarian electorate will send you exactly where they belong: to the opposition. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-23-122	Thank you. I give the floor to Ander Balázs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-05-23-123	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a feeling of Déjà vu, and I am very sad. The debate on Madách Memorial Year took place not long ago. I don't understand why we had to argue about that. I don't want to look so naive, either, but there was a feeling in you that there were points where there wouldn't be a kind of circus purpharl's, and then you did. The fact is that this feeling of déjà vu is not a coincidence, because it has also become the fate of the Corvin chain proposal, which I deeply regret from here, the Jobbik-Conservatives. We will support this proposal. Fellow Members! It is possible to talk about cursed ages and to relate unhistoricly to certain things, but let me quote something: "Dear Count Klebelsberg! Count István Széchenyi raised the idea 90 years ago to give national honor to the great children of the nation who moved away. This thought is now a worthy occasion when we surrounded the square of the Szeged Vow Church with arches [[...]] [[...]] [[...]] I declare the arched corridors to be a National Memorial Hall, where we commemorate a hundred great Hungarians (... ), but we also want to remember those who, in today's uniquely difficult times, take part in the spiritual work of maintaining and raising the level of Hungarian culture with outstanding talent and extraordinary devotion (...) These men will receive special recognition: I will establish 12 Corvin chains and 60 Corvin wreaths to commemorate the great king, Mátyás Hunyadi. The two-fold founding document of 11 October 1930, signed by Horthy s.k. and countersigned by Kunó Gróf Klebelsberg, Minister of Religion and Public Education. This honor was first awarded on 24 February 1931, and indeed it is a great pity for people who, with such an unhistoric look back, can be brought to mind by anyone, perhaps using an actuator for political purposes, to bring them into a quasi-bad light. György Zala sculptor, Sándor Korányi internal physician, Frigyes Korányi son, and Count Kunó Klebelsberg himself Minister of Education who, after the collapse of the First World War and Trianon, created flowers on the ruins and set a standard for the current government that can only be admired and admired. Then came the Communists, the Rakosi, and in 1953 they practically abolished this medal. We have no problem with this being revived and resurrected by the first Orbán government after the change of regime, because if you look at, let us say, those who have been awarded the deceased, who have also been listed by the Secretary of State, let me name some: Zoltán Kallós, you can only speak with the utmost respect of our ethnographer, or John Lukacs, to whom I believe that history, the XX. His works on the most serious world tragedy of the century provide a basis for all democratically thinking people: The Duel, The Historical Hitler, and could be classified. [[17.20]] István Nemeskürty's works, which I think of with a shudder and a positive view; or Magda Szabó is an excellent writer, the Old-fashioned story, the Für Elise or even the film scenario, Abigail. If you look at the present medals, yes, there is certainly one among them who is closer to the heart of the government, but it would be a sin to make the mistake of looking at someone with a sort of tribal mentality only because, if necessary, the political right to the heart of another. However, these people, the former and those who have been awarded the prize, have indeed placed something on the nation's table in terms of science, literature and arts or even cultural organisation, on which we can speak only with the utmost respect and respect. So we would be very happy if these occasions were not dragged down into the swamp of party politics. CHAPTER III Charles' coronation, written by Mirror, cost the British taxpayers 250 million pounds, some 106 billion forints. Yeah, it's a bigger country, richer, but without tradition, we're nothing. There are certain traditions that need to be nurtured, guarded, yes, they may also represent budgetary resources, but it is far more painful to use these cases as weapons against each other and shoot back and forth than to accept that yes, there is a certain budgetary implications. Therefore, staying on the ground of the conservative approach, the Group of Jobbik-Conservatives will support this proposal. And since I've brought you an English parallel here, we're not going down to the level of a punk band called Sex Pistols. * God Save the Queen! Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause from Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2023-05-23-124	We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Dear Parliament, Now for the two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mátrai, from the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2023-05-23-125	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I asked for the two-minute speech because I cannot go without saying the thoughts of Kálmán Olga DK, who spoke in the main speaker group, which I was shocked to hear, not only by me, but also by my fellow Members. One always hopes that opposition representatives will be able to be touched by a noble goal, which is a recognition of the performance of foreign or domestic individuals achieving outstanding performance in the field of Hungarian science, art or education, which brings pride to us Hungarians. I would like to thank the Secretary of State. I thank you for listing the names of all those whose lives, their work, their knowledge, their achievements for the Hungarian people, as an example not only for us, but also for the young generation, whom we recognise in the country, we recognize within and beyond our borders, whom the whole world recognizes. I think that God should cheer them up, that would be the most important word we should send and wish them good health for their continued work. You must apologize to Olga Kálmán for speaking so unworthyly in Parliament and for trying to put them in such a position when the entire Hungarian nation is proud of their lives and their work. Thank you very much. [[A statement from the ruling parties: That's right! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-23-126	Thank you. For the next two minutes, I give the floor to Olga Kálmán, from the DK Group. Here you go.
u2023-05-23-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Speaking of history counterfeiting, about 10 seconds after my speech, you're talking about something quite different than what I was talking about, and I know exactly what Congressman Nacha was trying to do, so you can tell your propaganda press friends. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Western Light!]] Put out the keyword, call them now calmly in front of me, that I have humiliated Hungarian artists, abused them. No! I asked you one question, and if you have a text understanding problem, I'm very sorry, but you obviously couldn't answer that, that you spent 6 billion forints to renovate a villa. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Yes.]] For what purpose? What's with the posh? What's with the rags? Wasn't there really a better place for the money? That's what I asked you, but you couldn't answer that either. And Mrs Mátrai again put a shovel on Hungarian artists being humiliated here. I mean, I literally said that the state has a duty to acknowledge the work of renowned, prestigious scientists, researchers, artists. However, what you do with the immeasurable money theft, the immeasurable parade, the immeasurable acquisition of furniture, I am very curious about how many friends, how many oligarchs, how many pals of you get from this kind of fork renovation. Do you understand, Congressman? ! I am not talking about Hungarian artists and researchers, I am talking about the amount of money your government is stealing without counting, because I do not think you yourself know how much of which investment, which renovations have been stolen from. [[Róbert Zsigó: Shame on you, Congresswoman.]] So, I'd really appreciate it if any of you would tell me what it took to spend six billion forints on renovating such a villa building. It also has a special picantria when it comes to OLAF investigation and metro 4 which was handed over by István Tarlós and Viktor Orbán in 2014. In the four years before that, they somehow didn't realize what had happened here, and then they did. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2023-05-23-128	Thank you. I give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa, from the KDNP Group, for a two-minute comment. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-05-23-129	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Congresswoman, I would be happy to answer that question. Let me add, however, that you mocked the Corvin chain's medals and insulted them. [[Kálmán Olga: I can't believe it!]] [[Kálmán Olga: I can't believe it!]] When he said which of the 28 seats he would sit on, and the rest, thus mocked those who would use this fork, this office. (Kálmán Olga: I can't believe it!) Congresswoman, I don't know, you know, the Róheim villa is connected to the two political sides in a different way. You usually celebrate those who murdered István Tisza in that villa. [[Kálmán Olga: Aha!]] And here we remember István Tisza, honourable Member. This is a huge difference in the two political sides. This is a beautiful, Renaissance, neobaroque, Art Nouveau tickets villa, which has deteriorated significantly in recent years. Starting with the fact that you have in no way invested enough resources to preserve our monuments. They've had eight years. Not only that, they left countless monuments to rot. [[Kálmán Olga: Was that just a protection?]] It's a significantly corrupted villa of historic value. I think it's worth saving, and if we can find a function that doesn't just stand on its own, then it's worth renovating. I still think it's worth renovating. This is a very important place in Hungarian history. There are other Jewish villas like this, and Ferenc Gyurcsány lives in the other. [[Gergely Harvesto laughs.]] Here we have a public purpose, a public function, by the Corvin Chain Board, honourable Member, and for posterity we have preserved a villa bearing Renaissance tickets, neobaroque and Art Nouveau tickets, which is also an important stage in Hungarian history, since István Tisza was murdered by the children of the Red Revolution, honourable Member. [[Kálmán Olga: It could not have been kept more modest.]] I think it is right that we renew such a monument building and restore it and preserve it for posterity. I hope I've answered your question. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-05-23-130	Thank you. We now have further speeches from our representatives. I give the floor to Márta Mátrai, from the Fidesz Group, as a preliminary speaker. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2023-05-23-131	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The government submitted the T/4024. The Hungarian Corvin Chain, the Hungarian Corvin Chain Board. Several preventive laws and government regulations are integrated and modernised in this area. T/4024. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure in question constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. and [[CHAPTER IV 26.]] a government order, too. [[17 .30]] The origins of the Corvin chain and the name itself lead us back to the famous centuries of Hungarian history, regardless of the circumstances of its origin. The memory of King Matthias, as a recognition of loyalty to the nation and outstanding spiritual achievement in the interests of the country, meets in this form of honor, which is renewed before the Parliament today, a strength and creative spirit as a guarantee of the survival of the Hungarian people. In the survival of a country and a society, recognition of the people who are doing a great deal for the nation's prosperity has a significant role to play. Undoubtedly, the politics of the time consider something else to be an outstanding value, but in order to boost Hungarian science and art, as well as Hungarian education and culture, I present only examples of the work of Ernő Dohnányi, Sándor Korányi or Pál Teleki, as well as the work of Zoltán Kallós, István Nemeskürty, Magda Szabó or Ede Teller, as mentioned by my fellow Members before me. The Corvin chain has all been decorated with recognized representatives of Hungarian intellectual life. Each of us has a joint effort to increase and preserve the Hungarian cultural heritage, thereby supporting the survival of the Hungarian people. Not all governments in modern Hungary considered this kind of reward of Hungarian science, art, education and culture to be a value to be protected, but the civil government consistently insists on the recognition of the uplifting values that increase the nation. As difficult as it was to accept the outstanding character of this state medal for Hungarian intellectual life, the change before us only includes a modernised version of the original laws and regulations. On the basis of the bill, the highest public dignity will be the owner of the second most prestigious medal. Hopefully, all our fellow Members will be honoured by the fact that the donation of the state medal will be placed under the authority of the President of the Republic on the basis of the presentation of the Prime Minister. I would particularly like to point out that the proposal to donate can be put forward by anyone at the Corvin Chain Office, which broadens the scope of the initiative. The Corvin Chain Board, whose members are the former prize winners, will be a public body in the coming years. The members shall elect their chairman and vice-chairman from among themselves. The Corvin Chain Board shall be chaired by the secretariat of the Hungarian Corvin Chain Board, the head of which shall be appointed by the President of the Republic. The main body of the panel is the general assembly, which shall not exceed 15 persons. With this legislative change, the body will rise to the status of a public body and continue to function as an institution. Legality checks shall be carried out by the D.A.'s office over the functioning of the bodies. Dear Parliament, T/4024. Based on bill No.1, the Corvin chain is an outstanding recognition in the ranks of state medals, which is an age-long spiritual compass for national ascension. With this bill, the conditions of donation will be even more fulfilled. This is a bill that is appropriate to the spirit of the age, so I would ask my fellow Members to support the bill that has been tabled. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-23-132	Thank you. I give the floor to Gergely Arató of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2023-05-23-133	Dear House, To be honest, I have never seen Congressman Nacsa speak with such lengths and enthusiasm, but deplorable, as he is now, even though he has a good record in this matter. I admired Mr. President's patience, but I don't dare judge him because he's taking the floor. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You weren't even here!]] So, the fact is, in this House, that Congressman Nacsa spoke of everything that came to his mind except the bill and, except for what he was supposed to have responded to, because, in addition to the bill, he was supposedly responding to the comments of Mrs Kálmán Olga, although this debate was not in itself an issue, but did not respond to any merit. He did not respond to the need for this edition, he did not respond to the need to create the Corvin chain medal at all. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Klebelsberg created it!]] Because when Klebelsberg created this, it was a unique form of medal, and that's why it was very important. But, honourable fellow Members, who have received the Corvin chain, these people are Kossuth-prize winners, Széchenyi-prize winners, people who have been honoured many times with the Hungarian Cross of Merit. It is not that they have acknowledged a performance that they would not have noticed before, and I'm sorry to say, Mrs. Houselord, but it may be a particular interpretation of history that says that only in this era do they notice great artists and great scientists. From this point of view, even in times of Hungarian history, which are otherwise extremely glorious, significant scientists and significant cultural personalities have received significant recognition. So the thing is, ladies and gentlemen, what Congressman Nacsa is talking about is that he is wrong about what he is not talking about, and that is the point, because we have now learned that it is not the Corvin chain that is important, but the protection of monuments, because he is now referring to the need for this investment because the monument must be saved. What we see is how you save monuments, that's what we see in high-value rural castles. I don't think it's possible that when it turns out that the important functions of the Corvin Chain Corps don't require such a large building, then there will be a brave Fidesz entrepreneur, minister, who will save this villa from further decay, and will use it, like the castle of Edel, as they plan a palace of garland, and I can continue it for eternity. I must say, fellow Members, that there is no Member of the Council of Nacsa in a position to tell us who can speak in this House and who can bring to this House. [[Lőrinc Nacsa and Miklós Soltész intervene.]] I know you have a need for it and you want it, but the thing is, since we're talking about Klebelsberg, why don't you follow the example of Klebelsberg, for example, that Klebelsberg didn't talk about raising the wages of teachers, and he didn't promise to do it every year, but he did it to a much greater extent than you can promise now. And don't tell me that the economic situation, the sanctions and Brussels, I don't know what it is, because Klebelsberg didn't wait for Berlin, he didn't wait for Rome, he didn't wait for anyone else, London, Paris, but from the country's financial resources, he provided teachers with a wage increase after Trianon in a really serious economic situation. You are undoubtedly on the right track to manage Trianon economically, but you are not there yet. If Klebelsberg, in that situation, after Trianon and a losing war, was able to provide funds for educating and raising wages, and education, he was able to provide resources to create schools, and he was able to provide resources to create a public university network that you just lost, and they just gave it to your friends, then I think you might be able to follow Klebelsberg's example in this, too. Finally, let me tell you one more thing, because I've been told several times today what a nasty scam it was on subway 4, how much the left has taken there, you claim. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Not us, OLAF.]] What is reality on the other hand? OLAF does not say that, my dear fellow Member, no-no. What happened? What happened was that in 2010 you took office both nationally and in Budapest. They took office, looked around, there was handover, there was no problem. In 2014, Viktor Orbán and István Tarlós stood there to hand over metro 4 without inviting anyone from the former city leadership and proudly handed over their own product. And then in 2017, when they got busted at OLAF, they started pointing back. How many criminal proceedings were there in this case? What did they reveal? What did your willing prosecutor's office investigate in this prosecution? I mention this in connection with the bill because it is feared that this type of trickery and abuse will take place here too. So, how many criminal proceedings have been filed? I'll tell you: zero. Probably because of that, we could either put it on, or imagine that if there had been a serious investigation, then it might have turned out that there weren't any naughty things happening before 2010 or not just before 2010. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, in one respect this is exactly the same as your other corruption cases, and nothing has been investigated here, and no one has been stopped. [[17.40]] So in conclusion, I can tell you that it is wrong and it is not good that we are talking about this matter. It is neither right nor good that we have to talk about, even with regard to the recognition of Hungarian culture, Hungarian science, the greatest of Hungarian intellectual life, that you are making money out of everything, to put it mildly, that everything is used for political purposes, that the Corvin chain is just about having a medal created by Viktor Orbán and that his name should be recorded in this way. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: We resuscitated it.]] It also revived me so that you could tell me that it was revived in the wake of Miklós Horthy. The truth is that, in fact, it is all about power and money again, and the recognition of respectable Hungarian spiritual people, which is also appropriate, and from which she said and I also said that it is appropriate, only used as a fig leaf, as a disguise for their usual financial and power games. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-05-23-134	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Lőrinc Nacs of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2023-05-23-135	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Congressman Harvest said I can't tell you what to talk about, but he can tell me what I can talk about. It's typical socialist tempo for you to be free, not for us. But we're used to that. Mr President, in the second speech, I spoke in the two-minute speech about the preservation of the monument villa, not the speaker, but the two-minute speech, because the congresswoman aimed the question directly at me. Don't tell me I was talking about that, and that's more important. I was talking about the Corvin Chain Corps in my keynote speech, too bad you weren't in the room. I spoke about the preservation of the monument fork in the two-minute speech when the congresswoman asked me on purpose. I'm used to being asked questions, and I'm happy to answer them. The congresswoman asked me, so I answered her question. Don't let me see why I was talking about that. That was your question, the opposition, the DK question. What concerns the board: I think that is a completely misunderstood debate, honourable Member, what you are saying, and a very misguided position is when you say that this is not necessary, because there is a Széchenyi Prize, and there is a cross of knights, and therefore there is no need for a Corvin chain. But, Congressman, can you tell me what is sufficient state recognition? And is there enough, is there too much, and is there too little, honourable Member? Why are you telling me that someone shouldn't get a Corvin chain, because they've already received a Kossuth Prize or a cross of merit or a Saint Stephen order, honourable Member? That's not how it works! Look at the statements by the Corvin Chain Corps members, the Corvin chain medals, about the responsibility of this medal. Read their statements, even at the award ceremony. You couldn't have been present at such a handover in a government position, because you canceled it, you didn't hand it over, and you made it impossible for the board to operate, so you couldn't be there for such a handover. But read from the press what the prize winners have said, the people you're making fun of. No matter how they try to shoot their words, you can look back and look back at Kálmán Olga's speech as a keynote speaker. He mocked the world-famous, respectable people of science and culture how, when will they meet in this villa, what kind of food they have and so on. That's what he was making fun of. [[Kálmán Olga: Is there food? When did you get that? I didn't know that.]] The fact that these respectable people, who are actually ambassadors of Hungarian culture, Hungarian science, because this award comes with this award, with this award, they will sit on how many chairs. This is the mockery of the prize winners, the greats of the Hungarian nation, and I think it is wrong. Just Mr. Congressman, bring me the case of Hungarian education under Klebelsberg's pretext. As Secretary of State, why didn't you mention Klebelsberg when he closed 300 schools and dismissed 16,000 teachers? I'm sorry, he forced the local authorities to let him go. Then why didn't you refer to Kuno Klebelsberg, honourable Member? As Secretary of State for Education, you have closed 300 schools and dismissed 16,000 teachers. Then where was the Klebelsberg view? I think it is important to learn more from the greats ahead; I am not thinking of the communist period like you, but I am thinking of the period before that, and I am thinking of the period before that. It is worth learning from history, it is worth learning from the leaders before us, and it is worth keeping those traditions, because without tradition we are nothing. I'd just like to say one sentence to Congressman Ander Balázs. He said there were political give-and-takes going on. I actually wrote a nice speech for this occasion because I think it's important. Gergely Arató asked me to do this, and I'll be happy to send it to you. I had to make this speech because Kálmán Olga said things like that and tried to abuse our history, our past, our traditions and our resources, as I think it is not worthy of Parliament. I wrote a nice, elevated speech about the Corvin chain as a prize and the operation of the board, and I would have been delighted to be able to read you this and share my perhaps elevated or exalted thoughts about this. Unfortunately, this was not possible because of Mrs Kálmán Olga. But I'll keep it for another debate. That moment, that rise, unfortunately, went away thanks to the two representatives of DK. I'd like to point out that there's an award here, there's a state medal. By the way, the bill is technical, it goes to Alexander Palace. But I think it's not just technical, because it's going to the Sándor Palace to represent the unity of the nation, so it's not the Prime Minister, but the President of the Republic that's going to practice it, so the remuneration of the Corvin chain will be beyond party political interests and political affiliation. I therefore believe that this law has substance in this regard. But the awards, the prize winners, they had a chance to talk here. Mr. Secretary of State S did not start using a daily party policy in his expo, as the congresswoman did, but spoke about the prize winners, talked about the history of the prize, talked about the importance of the prize, and could have preserved this atmosphere. Only in the second place of the lead speakers there is always a group called DK, which is used to ruin the national unit, the national minimum, and bump into it with two legs, so that it doesn't happen by accident. I thank Congressman Ander for his attitude, because to this law, to this question, the attitude he has given in his speech as the lead speaker is correct, because there must be matters that are connected to our history, bound to our traditions, recognizing the national greatness that I think everyone has to stroke. Let us be glad that our nation has such greats as artists, athletes, cultural organizers, those working in scientific life that we can recognize in this way, we have the opportunity and we are a strong country to acknowledge these achievements, and we can demonstrate these achievements on the international stage. We Hungarians may not have a great country, we may not have a great economic power, but we have creativity, scientists, athletes, artists, cultural professionals who are world famous. This is our resource, the Hungarian ingenuity, the Hungarian thinking, the Rafineria, the grey stock that we have here in Hungary. One of the ways of this recognition is the Hungarian Corvin chain. These are traditions, these, if you like, even though DKs don't understand, are sacred things. These things are worth taking seriously. I understand that you do not understand, but it is worth taking them seriously. It's worth taking seriously because if you try to cut these roots, drag them out, destroy them, the tree will fall. Because they keep us, and it's worth working together on, even on a political side. In this respect, it is worth saying together that there is a need for medals that recognise our greatest, we need the recognition of the nation's actor, we need the recognition of the nation's athlete, and so on. These are necessary, fellow Members. You didn't even vote for the Olympic annuity increase. What I'm talking about is that these should be a minimum. These are supposed to be about performances. Believe me, in your time, I agreed with a lot of medals. Not with Gergényi, but there are many other medals that I agreed with, because it was from my heart, and I was glad that they had received the levels of state medals they had received. This is about recognising the achievements that come from this tiny ten million-dollar nation, which gain world news and add things to Hungarian history and culture that I think are unique. That's what this is supposed to be about. And you guys are corruption, thieves, robbers, abusers, ridiculers. I don't think that's right. We are still on the side of our traditions, and we are still on the side of our nation. I'm asking you to do the same sometimes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-23-136	Thank you. For a two-minute comment, I give the floor to Mátrai from the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congresswoman. [[Mátrai Márta: Is it my turn?]] He had a button push. Cancel it?
u2023-05-23-137	Thank you very much. It was just so much background noise that I didn't understand. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I asked for another two minutes because I think and see that some opposition representatives do not care what kind of law comes before this House, they simply cannot get over themselves, and they always think of everything that is their own money question and the money package, because they start on their own. [[17.50]] I would like to point out for a moment the historical background of this wonderful bill, perhaps a little touch on them, although this was not the case in my speech. I think that today the obvious topicality of the historical background is also determined by the form of the medal, since the XVth hanging on the Corvin chain. It is also indicated by a copy of the coin made by the Italian Renaissance artist of the century, with a portrait of King Matthias at the heart of it, and on the other side, the slogans, the ideas that represent a message for everyone, namely science, literature, art. Now, if these were to be formulated, perhaps they would be a little bit different to this bill, although I believe that I cannot ask for this, and I cannot assume, from what has been said, that the present DK representative is so different, because she has such a different mindset. [[Kálmán Olga: Thank God!]] that this law, the spirit of this law, cannot be close to you. I am very sorry, and I think your comment was extremely pathetic. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-23-138	Thank you. For a two-minute comment, I give the floor to Gergely Arató, from the DK Group. Here you go.
u2023-05-23-139	Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies The thing is, it's not our thinking, it's your operation that makes us have to return to the use of public funds every time. The Sándor Palace embodies the unity of the nation to you at most, the majority of Hungarians don't think about it, but the 66 million forint piano and the Fidesz money-shopping, which is typical there, and the President of the Republic, who is to say politely, let us say, very independent of the Prime Minister.
u2023-05-23-140	Thank you. I don't see any requests for further contributions from representatives. No one's come forward. The general debate is hereby closed. I'll ask the author if you'd like to answer. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2023-05-23-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am sorry that you had to join in the middle of such a debate, because I think that the beginning of the debate was worthy of this, and I am also sorry that, knowing Mr President, you may have heard the contributions of your fellow parties strangely, but first of all I would like to thank Mrs Márta Mátrai, Mrs Mária Kállai, and Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, representatives of the Fidesz-KDNP for their contributions to the Government. Indeed, we thought that we had planned and imagined this proposal, that, learning from history, respecting our nation, we could finally reach a consensus that was so difficult to find in this House and in politics. Perhaps there is a unified attitude only when we commemorate a deceased Member, and for half a minute, each one of us remembers in his own way any colorful, lived at any age, and I add any policy of our Member. One had hoped, personally, that this recent legislative referral would be one of those moments, one of the hours. I would therefore like to thank, in addition to the members of the Government, Mr Ander Balázs for his contribution, the representative of Jobbik. Thank you for the fact that, as the pro-government representatives and myself have done, both of the Corvin chain members who have died before, and the medals, as well as of those who live among us today, have mentioned and listed some of them from the past, from the present, who have made a fantastic, great achievement not only on the altar of the nation, but also in front of the whole world. In comparison, I must say that Mrs Kálmán Olga's speech was unworthy. Actually, it would be best, or what I should do is not react. [[Kálmán Olga: Do it!]] But you've used so much slander, so many lies, so many undeserving expressions about such a bill, I think it's knocked out the guarantee not only for government representatives, but also for government representatives. [[Rebecca Szabó: Not with us! Nacsa Lőrinc: You weren't here!]] with whom, where appropriate, a coalition has been prepared in recent months or in recent years. And he's knocked out the insurance, or at least he's certainly stunned by the representatives of the art world, the scientific world, education, and many other areas, including those who, if any, have not received this medal or dream of it, but who respect the people we've listed, even those who have passed away and those who live among us. [[Kálmán Olga: I wasn't talking about them!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Who would you pull out of this noble roster? Is Zoltán Kallós hurting you because he's cross-border and your community refuses to do so? [[Kálmán Olga: I can't believe it!]] You're hurting, say, László Lovász mathematician, because your boss can't count. [[Kálmán Olga: Why are you telling lies?! Gergely Arató: Very high, Mr. Secretary of State.]] You're confusing prime numbers? Maybe Imre Makovecz is hurting you. [[Kálmán Olga: That's not what I'm talking about.]] Because they couldn't rebuild anything, build anything in this world? Or, I might add, Mihály Ráday [[Kálmán Olga: That's what I'm talking about!]] Member of the SZDSZ, who died in 2021, who spent his whole life trying to get the forks that were beaten up by the Communists in Budapest to be fixed, can the destruction be fixed in some way and restored? [[Kálmán Olga: Congressman, what are you talking about, I beg you?!]] At last, there is a government that deals with this, not just the theft that you have done, but that's how you respond to such a law. [[Kálmán Olga: How?]] Which is a lie. They're all lies! [[Kálmán Olga: What was the lie? The 6 billion? The law is a lie!]] It was a disgrace! He brought me numbers that weren't true. [[Kálmán Olga: What?!]] On the one hand, I have listened to you, Madam honourable Member, and on the other, you may have said your opinion up there, and what you have said, once again, was outrageous. In this debate, I don't want to say anything else, Gergely Arató is in. He got in so that he could see it or write it down, he wasn't even here. He didn't even listen to what we said, he didn't listen. [[Gergely Arató: There is mediation, Mr. Secretary of State.]] Yeah, I guess he was sitting right in front of her the whole time, I know, yeah. [[Kálmán Olga: This is what we do!]] He came in, and then he said things that weren't said. He reacted to things that weren't even mentioned. He hit Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa just because he hates him for telling the truth, and they always answer him. [[Kálmán Olga: How Christian is hatred? We don't hate you!]] Instead of listening to this debate and listening to the keynote speech of his fellow Member in DK [[Gergely Harvesto: I listened to that too!]] With which he has insulted both the medals and the medals, as well as the vast territory from culture to architecture, through the various branches of art to science, perhaps you would have spoken differently. [[Kálmán Olga: Why is public procurement for one person?]] Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for those supporters... [[Kálmán Olga: Why is public procurement a single player? Talk about things like that, not what you didn't say. Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Congresswoman Kálmán Olga, you're not on ATV where you can pick up chewing gum and everything. [[Defiance from the pro-government ranks.]] I'd like you to say your primitive words another time. Unfortunately, you have desecrated this debate with your unworthy comment. [[Kálmán Olga: What a rise!]] [[18.00]] I'm asking you very nicely to make your comments... [[Gergely Harvesto: You are as high as the dome! Kálmán Olga: Is it not customary for you to tell the truth?]] Just hold back a little bit. Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for your attention, thank you very much for your support. I would only ask the representative of Jobbik as a rhetorical question, as I have done before: a year and a half ago, how did they think they would govern with such a party? Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-23-142	Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the bill on legislative amendments to the circular economy will follow until closure. The government referral is T/4030. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mrs Raisz Anikó, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Energy, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2023-05-23-143	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The government is still working to move our country as quickly as possible to an innovative, green, digitised, and able to recycle and recycle its own waste into a so-called circular economy. The priority objective of the changeover is to keep the value of products, raw materials and resources in the economy as long as possible, while at the same time minimising the production of waste. This also offers an opportunity to transform the economy and give our country a new and sustainable competitive advantage not only in the region but also within the European Union. The bill before us will also contribute to the achievement of this objective by incorporating clarifications that are necessary for the transition to a new model of waste management. Amendments to definitions, legal institutions, deadlines for issuing implementing regulations will facilitate transition, interpretation of the law and the development of a common practice of enforcement, both for national and regional waste management authorities and for economic operators in the waste management sector. The main part of the proposal is the 2012 CLXXXV on waste. contains amendments to the Act. It is well known that a new period for waste management will start from 1 June 2023. The domestic system is transformed into a private company instead of that state. The new concession model continues to ensure the service at a uniform high level in all Hungarian settlements, while maintaining the premium, and increases the quality of service by implementing new developments. It also provides for the efficient operation of the extended producer responsibility system, the legal bases and detailed rules of which have already been laid down, including the necessary adaptation of the environmental product fee scheme. However, for the proper and balanced functioning of the system, it is absolutely necessary to ensure a common practice of the national and regional waste management authorities acting. To this end, it was necessary to make the legislative clarifications and amendments indicated on the basis of the experience of the law enforcement authorities. From the perspective of stakeholders, the main effects of the proposal are: A wide range of real estate users are affected by the incorrect transfer modification. We are trying to prepare for a change in account numbers with a consumer-friendly solution that the payment sent to the wrong account number will not be refunded, but transferred to the holder. Real estate users and self-governments are also affected by the amendment that, by the decree of the municipality, they can continue to provide the fee discounts they have paid so far. Local governments are affected by the provision of part of the financing of the public clean-up mission. Although this is certainly not what we are thinking of seeing a PET bottle thrown away on the street, in the context of waste from products under extended producer responsibility, local authorities incur costs, and therefore the law lays down the main rules for reimbursement of costs for municipalities and the concession company. This will provide additional funding for municipalities. Local governments are also indirectly affected by the amendment to the Law on Property under which the exemption from competitive tendering extends beyond the concessional company to the exploitation or transfer contract with the Concesor sub-contractor, as this is typically the contractual relationship with the owner of the property element, so the current exemption rule of the Act can be applied in substance. The most significant change to an entity is that a scheduled agreement will be sufficient for waste managers to comply with the legal requirements instead of the actual transfer of waste. In addition, substances subject to a metal trade permit may be further exempted in order to achieve a smooth transition. In order to prevent further illegal landfilling, the proposal simplifies the transport of small quantities of waste in a detailed section in a rational way. However, we should also not forget the individual sectoral laws in which we introduce the necessary clarifications for the new use of terms. It is therefore clear that the most important objective of the bill is CLXXXV 2012 on waste. Amendment of law to ensure that the renewable system functions as smoothly as possible. Dear Parliament, As I mentioned at the beginning of my expo, promoting sustainable development at both domestic and international level is a priority, both from a social, economic and environmental point of view. This requires the development of sustainable systems and infrastructures, their continuous development and the collection, sharing and implementation of good practices. They all contribute to the transition to a circular economy. I ask you to support the bill in the spirit of what you have said. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-23-144	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Gábor Varga, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-05-23-145	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In all 11 years, mankind's population has flown from 7 billion to 8 billion. The rising population is constantly expanding its demand for services and products, which can only be ensured by full depletion of the resources currently available. The only chance of maintaining our planet's condition is circular farming. The European Union's circular package of economic proposals states that waste use should be achieved by 2035 so that only 10 percent of the waste generated is placed in landfills. This description makes the entire material supply system think. One of the most important tasks of the coming decades is the creation of a circular economic model. This encourages producers of products to focus on turning the raw material back into a system. The Government of Hungary is committed to sustainability. This is also supported by the unique creation in Hungary of training courses for engineers, managers, economists, organizers and managers to strengthen the circular economy, thanks to the collaboration of the University of Pannonia and the Circular Economy Technology Platform. Knowledge is valuable, and through professionals with such knowledge, Hungary will have a situational advantage in the development of a sustainable economy. One of the objectives of the legislative amendment proposal before us is to ensure consistency with other detailed rules and with the directives of the European Parliament and of the Council. An example is the motion for harmony with the rules of the extended producer responsibility system. In addition to the clarification necessary for the transition to a new model for waste management, the amendment aims to achieve standardisation. The concept of uploading set out in the proposal supports the protection of groundwater, since the explanation can exclude the possibilities of water and groundwater involvement. In this context, I would like to point out that the Government Decree of 219/2004 also draws attention to the protection of these priority natural values, according to which the introduction of hazardous substances into groundwater is prohibited. T/4030. A number of points are covered by the legislative proposal No 1 on information obligations, including the information transfer tasks of municipalities and property owners, which is an essential element of the effective provision of tasks. [[18.10]] The proposal for legislative amendments to the circular economy affects the fight against illegal abandonment and disposal of waste on a number of points. In addition to rationally simplifying the transport of illegal waste generated in a defined circle and in small quantities, it proposes to identify incentives to increase the amount of waste to be transferred. Despite the efforts made so far, the development of illegal waste dumps throughout the country is one of today's main problems. This justifies that, where the waste producer collects waste generated on the property for more than one year without a waste management permit, the waste management authority should be able to submit an application for registration of mortgage rights during the enforcement procedure in the event of such an infringement. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to what has just been said, the proposal contains a number of provisions that are necessary for the use of the new system of waste management and which support our country's success in the future by creating a circular economy. I call on my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-05-23-146	Thank you. I give the floor to Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-05-23-147	Dear House, The circular economy is an extremely important idea that is becoming increasingly important in the European Union and generally in the developed part of the world. What is it about, in essence? The fact that the current economic model, which has actually been built for centuries now to produce raw materials, is being mined, processed, and ultimately waste, which we destroy in good times, is being stored in worse cases, let us move from this to a new economic model, an economic model that was otherwise considered natural in many ways in the history of mankind, where the aim is to re-use the available resources as many times as possible and to turn them back to the economy as many times as possible. The circular economy therefore represents a completely new approach, to be honest, an approach that is very far from the Hungarian government's economic policy and investment policy, since the Hungarian government's economic policy continues to build on the exploitation, depletion and unlimited use of natural resources, it is enough to talk about the installation of battery factories that eat energy, water and other natural resources in Hungary. The circular economy contains a number of elements: the extension of product life, the extension of liability or the provision and guarantee of repair opportunities. Compared to this, the current bill is much narrower, since it treats this issue as a waste management issue in substance and in substance. This is a minimum reduction and, in worse cases, a misunderstanding of the concept of a circular economy. However, the situation is even worse, as it is the case with this bill, as with so many other legislative proposals before us: a new legislation cannot be examined without account being taken of the context, the environment and the current Hungarian reality. What's going on? The thing is, you've created a gigantic-sized money laundromat called a waste concession. The essence of the waste management concession system is that since there are parts of this waste management that generate profits, from this point forward, the profit-making parts, the waste charges and the extra charge from the extended liability will all be transferred to the consort, where something will emerge in an opaque and unclear process, and we will see that we do. Let's say MOL's profits, the extra income from the recapitalisation of Fidesz private foundations, and I could continue this thought experiment to see where the money can go for the consort's interests. I know they're going to say again that we're always thinking this bad, but if reality is ugly, fellow Members, if it's ugly, then don't be angry at the mirror, but at yourself. The fact is, therefore, my fellow Members, that the amendments to the legislation on waste management presented here, in the context that you have created by the Waste Management Act, do not contribute substantially to the sustainability of the economy, do not contribute substantially to moving towards a circular economy. In fact, they create new opportunities beyond some otherwise useful technical rules to continue filling this huge, gigantic money launderer with money. However, there is another process: there is currently a market segment dealing with significant waste recovery. You've seen the money in this too, so you're going to be able to push this kind of market with your own prices and government prices, and you're going to be able to put your own people in here. Not that there is no need for ordering in this market segment, because actually there would be, it is enough to mention that during the past year, fires with extremely serious environmental effects have taken place in this type of waste treatment plants. So it would be necessary to clean up here, just to clean up this mess, not to throw the reins into the horses, on the contrary, to create clear state regulation and to play a stronger role in the state. But that's not what you do. You have done what our governments are accused of: privatised an important public service, and now you are creating additional legal conditions for this. Therefore, we cannot support this bill, despite its sometimes good intentions.
u2023-05-23-148	Thank you. I give the floor to Hajnalka Juhász, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2023-05-23-149	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Instead of the presumptions of my fellow harvester, it is worth talking about the specific amendment of the law. On the one hand, I would like to stress that the Hungarian Government is committed to the transition to a circular economy, one of the main aims of which is to make less and less used products waste, one of the main messages and the resulting waste recycle in some way. A good example of this commitment is, among other things, the ban on the placing on the market of disposable plastics or the fact that since 2010, the proportion of recycled waste has doubled. As of 1 July 2023, Hungary will take two more important steps to achieve a circular economy. On the one hand, a new extended producer responsibility scheme is established under which, in accordance with Union law, the manufacturer should bear financial responsibility for the treatment of waste throughout the product's life cycle or, where appropriate, financial and organisational responsibility for the treatment of waste. This concerns, inter alia, packaging, disposable plastic products or, for example, electrical and electronic products. This will contribute to meeting the EU waste management targets and to further increase the proportion of waste collected separately and thus their recycling in Hungary. On the other hand, with the date of 1 July, the new concession waste management system will also be in place, which is capable of guaranteeing the maintenance and high-quality operation of the service in a long-term and nationally uniform manner, thereby contributing to the maintenance of the reduction of the costs in the field of waste management. In particular, in order to achieve the Union's objectives and to fully meet the targets set out in the Union Directives, in the new waste management system, the concession company shall take over, collect, transport and pre-treatment, trade and transfer to and the maintenance, operation and development of the waste management facilities concerned by the municipal waste of households and entities and products covered by the extended producer responsibility scheme. [[18.20]] The introduction of these systems will contribute to increasing the collection and recovery rates of different waste in Hungary, the supply of secondary raw materials resulting from this, thereby reducing the use of primary raw materials, helping to reduce environmental damage. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us on the circular economy amendment proposes amendments to a number of other laws, namely 16 laws. In many of these cases, the changes contain clarifications that have become necessary due to the use of the new system of waste management described earlier. The aim of the amendment is to facilitate the transition to the new waste management model and to clarify the necessary definitions or specifications for legislation and legislative deadlines. The Secretary of State explained in detail the bill, its precise measures and the reasons for their necessity. I would just like to highlight one or two examples, confirming the importance of adopting this bill in order to ensure a smooth transition to the new system. The bill would allow, among other things, a maximum of 1 cubic metre of waste illegally placed on its property under certain conditions to be transported without a waste management permit or separate registration, thereby simplifying the removal of these small quantities of waste, reducing costs and completing the task by developing a more efficient, faster and less costly solution. I would like to note here that on several occasions the Hungarian Government has stood for the elimination of illegal landfills, including one of the cornerstones of the climate and nature conservation action plan. At the same time, we also need to see that this is a relatively long fight, in which the public is given a prominent role, and its participation is also extremely important. For this, various programs have been announced by the government of. either . Clean the country with calls, in which hundreds of thousands of tons of waste have been charged. But, for example, they have created an application, which I would like to emphasise, in order to facilitate the notification of illegal waste. Ladies and gentlemen, As the Secretary of State has mentioned, there is also a broad range of transitional provisions contained in the bill to deal with mistransfers. Therefore, NHKV Zrt. the concession company will continue to transfer the amount wrongly paid to it, and this will be the case vice versa, in order to facilitate consumer-friendly administration. The bill would also increase the possibilities for the transfer of separately collected waste, as the amendment could lead to the transfer of unrepairable household appliances by residents to the concessor sub-contractor, for example. The bill allows the municipality to continue to accept the fees it has already paid, as it ensures that the municipality can establish a decree on the maintenance of discounts in excess of the reduced fee even after the municipal waste management task has ceased. In this case, the real estate user pays the discount price, while the municipality pays the discount rate to the concession company. The bill under discussion eliminates, inter alia, the problem of double fee payments, facilitates the payment of a product premium during the transitional period and ensures consistency with the detailed rules of the extended producer liability regime of the Environmental Product Fee Act. Ladies and gentlemen, This is a package of very serious legislative amendments, so KDNP naturally supports it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-23-150	Thank you. I give the floor to Rebeka Szabó, the lead speaker of the Dialogue Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2023-05-23-151	Thank you very much. It sounds very good to have a bill tabled on the circular economy, and obviously there are some forward-looking parts in this, but I would like to point out that after 13 years of two-thirds governance, the honourable Orbán government could be further ahead. It is very interesting, although this is obviously not included in the bill, but since you are already here, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász mentioned it to you about the, TeSzed! For some reason, I also heard from Secretary of State Zsófia Koncz this morning how good this is. Of course, community trash is great, but we don't think a two-thirds government in a National Assembly has to show off how good it is to have people picking trash, do we? I can think of, for example, about 34 or 35 seriously contaminated areas in Hungary that should be compensated. Of course, these were not all produced during these 13 years, obviously, there is, which is yes, there is, which has always been, but obviously it is always the task of a current power to solve the serious environmental damage somehow, and these illegal hazardous waste dumps that various companies left behind... The Scented Road site in Budapest is also very famous, where some kind of discharge has taken place, but it is still not solved, either in the Cséry site or in the former Óbuda Gas Factory, but I could list it. There are about 35 of them across the country. For example, what about these discharges? It's just like that. I remembered that this would be a little more serious, but this requires a little more skill and obviously financial effort than the fact that everyone is very enthusiastic about taking PET bottles into plastic bags. And the other thing that's still in this legislation is that MOL is a concessionaire... which will soon enter into force and give it additional discounts. It has already been said here, but I would also like to mention that I think that it raises rather serious questions that you decide to grant MOL waste management a concession for 35 years, thus putting MOL in a monopoly position, and a lot of small companies that have dealt with industrial waste management and recycling may now lose their livelihood. In addition, according to my information, it will be planned to publish the fixed price at the end of May for the various selective collections or other waste, and statistics show that, for example, the price of waste paper has flown in the past time to such an extent that it is a strong question of how this will be managed with some kind of predefined price. So I think there are a lot of questions in the field of waste management, and we in the Dialogue-Greens do not support this whole concession agreement, and we do not think this direction is right at all where they go because we do not see it as sufficiently secure. On the one hand, I think it is wrong to bring more small businesses to the brink of bankruptcy, or I do not see any assurance that this will actually be more effective and that there will indeed be greater recycling rates. And it is also talkative that, as far as I know, from 2024 certain bottles and aluminium boxes will have to be replaced, but, for example, plastic glasses have been extended for disposable plastics, plastic cutlery are now prohibited, but for some reason the deadline for plastic cups has been extended, so that they cannot be used. So what I see is that I do not think that the steps that are actually being taken towards reducing pollution and the circular economy are intense enough. I have one more problem with this legislation, that 13th. The waste law is amended in paragraph 2 and a new definition is defined here in connection with uploading, and the previous definition is in fact supplemented by the quantity required to achieve the objectives, and there is an addition to a composition that does not cause a less favourable condition in the geological or groundwater B contamination limit. The B contamination limit alone means a contaminated state. I think that this is a question for me, whether this means that they will be able to use waste for uploading, which may even cause potential pollution. [[18.30]] The question is, then, that you might think about sewage sludge, red sludge, blasting slag, how you can fill landscape wounds with such products, and if you think of such things, I immediately wonder whether Viktor Orbán's father, who has mining companies, does not have any advantage for companies like him, so that from now on they can use the blasting salt, ash, sewage sludge or mine bed they produce to cover the pits, and that they can even ask waste producers for money to accept and bury these hazardous materials in the soil. So here I would like the Secretary of State to clarify this, that there may be such a thing, or that it must be a different interpretation, because I see this as a very big risk. And it's interesting, isn't it, that it's said that it can only be... so it's uploading in the application of the law that doesn't require a water or water protection authority authorisation procedure. While it is said here in the justification that, in the case of gravel mines, such authorisation procedures should be carried out in the first place, if I understand it correctly, but it is a question that in other areas which are not expressed by the other legislation on the protection of groundwater, why should we exclude such water law or water protection authority authorisation procedures then, and whether it is certain that in other areas there may not be vulnerable or sensitive water bases where, for example, filling waste with B contamination limits can cause problems. I would therefore find it more comforting if the obligation to authorise water rights were not defined as being excluded from this charge. I'm seeing a risk here, and I think it's more dangerous for the environment, so I'm asking you to clarify what's really going on with this upload. Thank you for your attention.
u2023-05-23-152	Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I give the floor to Hajnalka Juhász, the KDNP Group, for a two-minute speech. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2023-05-23-153	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'd be very short. I'm the one who's taking it! As regards action, I would like to say to Rebeka Szabó that we both believe in the importance of society's environmental awareness, and I think that this movement is very successful. If we look at the fact that the number of volunteers involved has doubled compared to last week, there are 90 000 people involved, and there are a lot of young people involved, then I think that we are developing one of the most important emotions of environmental protection, namely that the young generation will be environmentally conscious. And the, uh, take it! One of the most important objectives of this action is that if we make society and the environment interested in not throwing away garbage and raising a young generation in this environmental awareness, I think it is a very important goal. And I would repeat once again that in one year, the number of these volunteers who registered for this operation doubled, and I think that this is one of the most important messages, because we can sign any international treaty, whatever committed environmentalists we may be, the environmental awareness of the growing generation, so that they do not throw away the garbage, I think it is one of the most important messages, and therefore I think that it is very important for me to sign an international agreement. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-23-154	For a two-minute comment, I would like to give the floor to Ms Rebecca Szabó, representative of the Dialogue.
u2023-05-23-155	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I am glad that we agree on this, and I also consider it important, and of course I support it, and I have even participated in it several times. In action. I just wanted to draw attention to the fact that it feels a little small. It is very good to hear this for the second time today, but I think that a government that has virtually full power, and we can also see that, for what they want, they can spend billions on it, it is worth going a little further than that, and for example, the scale of 35 hazardous waste sites that are in the country, the elimination of... Obviously, you can't send children out there with gloves and plastic bags, so this is a much larger amount of waste in the country that leaks into the soil, into the groundwater, contaminating the environment there. So I'd like to see the government move a little further forward in this, in addition to the fact that, of course, it doesn't make any sense. Action is right, but in my opinion, after 13 years, it's a little too little to keep coming up with that. Thank you.
u2023-05-23-156	Thank you. From the Fidesz Group, I give the floor to Zoltán Kovács for two minutes.
u2023-05-23-157	Dear fellow Members, The, Do it! I believe that many of us have been involved in this action, and that is really important, especially with students and children participating in this action, which is also important for environmentally conscious education. So it's not just a matter of talking about it or learning about it in educational institutions, but it's actually the example of the horror that you find during the action, PET bottles, and I could tell you more. But the government doesn't just have to take it! I would like to say to the congresswoman that there has been a greater environmental discharge in the country. You just mentioned the Scented Way. The Budapest Chemistry of Scented Road was a 120-year-old company, and all chemicals in the area were exempted by more than one billion in 2017. So let's not mention the Scented Way, because there was this discharge. [[Rebecca Szabó: Partly!]] I think that what was there was due to the release of private entrepreneurs during the former socialist government, who stored various chemicals in barrels, which then rotted, and the chemicals spilled from them. Now, that was exempted by the Orbán government that year, which I already mentioned. You have to add that. And there was one other terrible thing, the red sludge disaster, which has also been mentioned several times in this House, there was also an inquiry committee. There, too, during the Socialist Government, licences were issued or checks were not carried out on the basis of which the terrible disaster unfortunately took place. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-23-158	Thank you. For a two-minute comment, I give the floor to Gergely Arató, from the DK Group.
u2023-05-23-159	Thank you for the floor. I didn't want to start with this, but speaking of my fellow Member, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the one-billion-dollar discharge was so good that a hundred tons of dangerous substances were found this summer on Scent Road. [[Intercoms.]] and they are constantly reviewing the monitoring wells and their results, because soil pollution continues to continue. And then we could talk about which government was the one who paid the sums for discharge without an exemption, and why. [[Robert Szigó: Watch what you say!]] Which is... don't threaten me, Congressman. I stand up for my opinion with you and others, even if you don't like it. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] Dear House, I have to say, it's very nice when you're here to pick it up. We're talking about action, and we're probably all in agreement, but do you know what reality is? The fact that because of your concession, because of the fear that they're going to push down the buying-in prices, to ensure the benefit of the consort, most of the companies that used to buy waste, such as paper waste, stopped this buy-in, they're sending people to guess where this garbage is going to end up. This is what I am talking about when I talk about the fact that it is not possible to remove a single element, this problem cannot be dealt with in such a way, even with very well-meaning and positive measures, that the whole system is not determined by the public purpose, but by the private purpose. Finally, as far as thinking is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, what does it say to the Hungarian society and to the young generation that we are talking to a representative of the Ministry of Energy here, because in your government there has been no room for environmental protection for 13 years, and it has been thrown from wallet to wallet in a subordinate position? Thank you very much.
u2023-05-23-160	Thank you. I don't see any normal comments, so we'd like to start another two-minute lap. I give the floor to Rebecca Szabó, representative of the Dialogue.
u2023-05-23-161	Thank you very much. I just wanted to respond to the fact that I was just telling you that something happened there, wasn't it, partly because Mayor Krisztina Baranyi, how should I put it? - She was yelling and trying to draw attention to her. [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties:.17?]] that, in the end, something really happened, but unfortunately since then, it has not been complete with the discharge. Technically, there's a soil pump that's jammed, the soil should be replaced, which hasn't happened. But of course, you can say something happened there, but there are 34 other locations in the country, unfortunately a lot of hazardous waste, and of course, I indicated that you didn't put it down, but, uh, I beg you, you've been on the government for 13 years, unfortunately, you have to deal with these things. By the way, we in the Dialogue Green have repeatedly tabled a proposal that would allow companies themselves, the polluters, to pay, and how to establish a fund, a risk fund that would, for example, provide financial coverage for these remedial measures. [[18.40]] Unfortunately, these proposals are generally rejected, so I think it would be very important to begin with these too, and then, of course, the other issues that I said in my longer speech are still relevant. Now I'm just reacting specifically to remediation. Thank you.
u2023-05-23-162	Thank you. For the next two minutes, I will give the floor to Zoltán Kovács from the Fidesz Group.
u2023-05-23-163	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Very briefly. I just mentioned the terrible disaster of red sludge. At that time, there was an environmental authority that hadn't checked what was supposed to be checked there. So it is not the organisation system that depends on the level of environmental protection, because the fact that there is a wallet and a regional environmental authority, and yet the red sludge spills, it depends not on the system, but on its inadequate functioning. That's not what you need to bring here. But I could go on with Bálint Magyar's educational wallet, and then he was what he was. So, ladies and gentlemen, it is not always the organisation that sets the level of environmental protection for the environment, but the environmental awareness of the way people live. In this we have a lot of work to do, anyway, to complete this, and this has to start practically from kindergarten, and in this, the family has the most basic task of getting our children used to using plastic or not using it, the garbage issue. How to explain it to them, and then the educational institutions have a significant role to play, and then actions such as the TeTedd! which they didn't respond to very positively, at least still in the keynote speech, Rebecca Szabó, at least I think. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-23-164	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, No further comments were made, and the general debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he'd like to respond. [[For signal:]] Yes, please, Madam Secretary.
u2023-05-23-165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Thank you very much for the comments, thank you very much for the comments that led the debate forward precisely in the direction that sought to emphasise the importance of knowledge, competitive advantage and environmental education. I am also pleased that we agree in the circular economy, if I understand correctly, with all Members, ladies and gentlemen. I am glad that we agree that we are going in the right direction in this direction, otherwise the whole continent is really trying to go in this direction. I would like to amend what you said, Mr President, that I can say a little better than that in the good case, and that is why you later mentioned re-use and recycling and the reduction in the production of waste at all. I think that we are trying to take steps in this direction, and indeed, along with all the things that have just been mentioned, so precisely the actions that we do in our daily lives and in our education will encourage the growing generations of the present and future generations to take care of their surroundings. However, let me remind you that this bill is strictly not about that. So let us return to what this bill is about. This is about the fact that we are indeed taking further steps towards a system of concessions that will be introduced from 1 July and we are obviously convinced of its transparency and economies of scale. Let me also draw attention here to the fact that many of the arguments made in this debate concern the debate two years ago. So two years ago, the Parliament held a debate in which this question was settled, and we are now doing nothing but finishing the final touches. And with a holistic approach, we are trying to take the necessary steps to really create such a sustainable economic model in Hungary. On the one hand, I will not comment on other associations, if I may, and on the other, let me draw attention to the fact that the concession affects a quarter of the total amount of waste produced annually in Hungary. Therefore, this is a sector in which there is much to be done and an economic opportunity within and outside the concession. Congresswoman mentioned the EU's objectives, indeed this transition, let us not be modest, because the Union has set good intentions, but has set targets for the Member States that require greater energy investment, so this justified this decision two years ago, which we are now implementing. We cannot interpret the restrictions as facilitating, so I cannot report any dangerous direction to which you have referred, Madam Congresswoman. Otherwise, the Waste Framework Directive is in line with the rules, so obviously, when there is an amendment, we will have to adapt in the past as well, so there is no intention of such amendment on the part of the legislator, at least not on our part as rapporteur, to take this activity in a direction that is not targeted. So thank you very much for the recognition and recognition that this is a complex issue, and thank you very much for all the support we have in this area. One result, if you're gonna take it! I'm not saying anything about action anymore. Let me tell you a scene from the past. I think it's worth mentioning that we should clear the country. In the framework of this programme, Hungary has been freed from illegal waste at several paces and in several instalments, but still half a million tonnes of illegal waste in recent years. So in light of this, I think it is obvious that the direction is towards the circular economy and clear Hungary. I would like to ask for the support of the proposal. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-23-166	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Following a series of amendments to the Annex to Decision No XXI of 2007 The Protocol on Heavy Metals, adopted in Aarhus on 24 June 1998, annexed to the Geneva Convention on Long-Range Tangible Air Pollution, 1979, adopted on 13 December 2012 at the 31st meeting of the Executive Body of the Convention, adopted on 13 December 2012. 1 and 2012/6. I repeat, and the joint general debate on the draft law on the publication of the protocol and amendments to the 1979 Convention on Long-Range Tangible Air Pollution on persistent organic pollutants until closure. Government referrals are T/4022 and T/4021. are available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Anikó Raisz, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Energy, author of the bill. Here you go.
u2023-05-23-167	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, One of the most important tasks in Hungary is to improve the health of the population and to ensure the environmental conditions necessary for Hungarian families to live healthy. The government is taking decisive action not only at the level of words but also at the level of action in terms of climate protection and environmental protection. It therefore adopted the Climate Protection Act in 2020, and Hungary was among the first to adopt a legal commitment to become a climate neutral country by 2050. It is important to note that improving air quality is a common European and international challenge, which requires efforts from all countries to address. Over the past 13 years, the government has made great efforts to improve air quality in order to preserve the health and environment of Hungarian people. In 2011, it launched an inter-sectoral action programme for the reduction of small particle emissions, commonly known as particulate matter. The national air load reduction programme was subsequently completed in 2020 with a significant extension of the PM10 programme. Unfortunately, environmental pollution, such as air pollution, is not familiar with national borders. Each source of pollution has its harmful effects far beyond the borders. That is why effective regulation, effective measures and international cooperation are needed. One of the important milestones of this is the 1979 Geneva Convention on Long-Range Transient Air Pollution, under which the Parties have undertaken to limit, gradually reduce and prevent their emissions of air pollutants in cooperation in order to take joint action against transboundary air pollution. [[18.50]] The limitations of each emission source or group of sources and the requirements for uniform air quality assessment shall be laid down in separate protocols. The T/4021 in front of you. The purpose of the so-called POP Protocol on the reduction of atmospheric emissions of persistent organic pollutants annexed to the Convention and the mandatory scope of its amendments is to be recognised and published. The purpose of the POP Protocol is to monitor, reduce and eliminate persistent organic emissions and losses. The Protocol already prohibits the production and use of certain products, such as certain pesticides and industrial chemicals. The Protocol contains provisions for the treatment of waste of prohibited products and obliges the Parties to reduce the emissions of dioxins, furans, multi-ring aromatic hydrocarbons and hexachlorobenzene below 1990 levels. It also lays down specific limits for the incineration of municipal, hazardous and medical waste. The other, T/4022, in this consolidated general debate. Legislative proposal No XXI of 2007 the so-called HM Protocol on heavy metals annexed to the 1979 Geneva Convention, which was endorsed by all the political groups of the then Parliament. The HM Protocol states that all countries which have acceded to the Convention are obliged to take effective measures to reduce annual emissions. It also states that the country which accedes to the Convention must draw up a national strategy, a programme and apply the best available techniques. The aim of the Geneva Convention itself is to reduce emissions from industrial sources, combustion processes and incineration, and to contain persistent organic pollutants, long-range transboundary air pollution. The HM Protocol was amended by two Decisions of the Executive Body of the Convention in 2012. The amendments shall include, inter alia, rules on the entry into force of the Protocol; the use of new source category limits; flexible transitional measures and limit values for emissions from larger stationary sources. The adoption of these legislative proposals also means ratification of the protocols, i.e. recognition of their binding scope. I would like to draw attention to the ongoing monitoring of Hungary's air quality through the National Air Pollution Measurement Network for air quality assessment. It is operated by government agencies, while the National Meteorological Service is responsible for providing professional background and quality assurance. Dear Parliament, The quantitative and qualitative state of natural, environmental resources basically determines the limitations of the potential of a given society, and it is therefore of paramount importance to protect them. Energy efficiency, environmental awareness and sustainability are among the most important issues of the present and of the future. Building the future is a common task and it is therefore important to create and introduce economic policy measures that link economic development with ecological development. This bill is also intended for these purposes, and I therefore ask that it be debated and supported. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-23-168	Thank you. The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Sándor Font, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-05-23-169	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Parties to the Geneva Convention, signed in 1979, have undertaken to limit or gradually reduce emissions of air pollutants in cooperation, thereby helping to prevent transboundary air pollution. On 24 June 1998 a Protocol was annexed to the Convention in question, which regulates the reduction of atmospheric emissions of persistent organic pollutants. However, from time to time, it is fortunate to review the content of these international conventions. Accordingly, the Protocol to the Geneva Convention, this Protocol, has been updated and supplemented by the implementing body of the Convention. The two legislative proposals before us therefore contain decisions on amendments to this Protocol. The Fidesz parliamentary group supports the adoption of the bill on the international treaty. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-23-170	Thank you. I give the floor to Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-05-23-171	Thank you very much. Dear House, The Democratic Coalition supports the bill, the treaty announcement. We are a little afraid that what will happen, such as the climate protection law mentioned in the rapporteur's exposé, is that the enthusiasm for real implementation will be much less than what happens in the vote and in the publication of the legislation, but it is our job and our task is to warn you of this if necessary. At the same time, we agree with the aim: in Hungary, poor air quality is a very serious problem, but at the same time we believe that it requires a comprehensive, different kind of government logic and philosophy to make a meaningful change. Thank you very much.
u2023-05-23-172	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Hajnalka Juhász, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2023-05-23-173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We all agree that air quality affects everyday life, human health, and our natural and built environment. Today, it is clear and clear, as the Secretary of State has stressed, that air pollution requires international cooperation mainly in order to combat cross-border air pollution. A state alone cannot fight effectively in this area. This has already been recognised in Geneva in 1979 when a long-range, transboundary air pollution convention was concluded, which we consider as the first environmental agreement with environmental objectives, and is still very decisive in this area. Under the Convention, as the Secretary of State and my fellow Members have stressed, the Parties have decided to cooperate in order to limit and reduce their emissions of air pollutants, thereby taking action against cross-border air pollution. The Geneva Convention, which was ratified by our country in 1980, has eight separate protocols that were established in connection with the requirements of certain emission sources, restrictions on source groups and uniform air quality assessment. There are two such protocols: the Protocol adopted in Aarhus in 1998, of which the so-called POP Protocol, presented by the Secretary of State, deals with persistent organic pollutants, while the so-called HM Protocol deals with heavy metals. Ladies and gentlemen, We all feel the importance of this, and I would therefore like to stress that the adoption of the POP Protocol and its amendments and amendments to the HM Protocol will contribute to safeguarding our country's air, strengthening the fundamental right to a healthy environment and ensuring a higher quality of life. The KDNP faction supports it. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-23-174	Thank you. I give the floor to István Szabadi, the lead speaker of the group of our country, who wishes to make his contribution here in the pulpit. Here you go.
u2023-05-23-175	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, The international protocol covered by the bill aims to reduce emissions from industrial sources, combustion processes and incineration. The emission limit value or simply limit value shall not be exceeded. Compliance with the limit values shall be checked by continuous or intermittent measurement or other technically appropriate method. The question arises as to how credible data can be evaluated for continuous and phased measurement if only public companies are carrying out internal measurements at industrial sites in Hungary, especially where there is a major state investment. We do not agree that independent companies and experts cannot conduct investigations, that accredited lab results ordered by private individuals cannot be considered to be relevant and do not entail consequences or additional checks. It is often unacceptable for public authorities to believe that investments have no significant environmental impact and therefore air quality is not being monitored continuously, nor do they allow independent peer reviews to be carried out so as not to have to face other values. [[19.00]] In the case of priority investments, county and national disaster management do not carry out inspections in factories, so dangerous substances may enter the airspace in the event of fires, and fire penalties documents are not officially issued and in many cases they hide fires. According to the view of the Hungarian Movement, it would be necessary to designate an international regulatory and pollutant measurement system where independent results are obtained, which can be made public, and not by companies affected by the state. Dear fellow Members, The obligation to combat long-range transboundary air pollution, as we have heard, is provided for in the 1979 Geneva Convention. The present bill aims to recognise and publish the mandatory scope of the Protocol to the Convention on the Reduction of the Emissions of Persistent Organic Pollution in the Air atmosphere. As a party with great emphasis on environmental protection, the Hungarian Movement cannot let the government's actions over the past months hinder the implementation of the Protocol. The government wants to make Hungary a power of battery manufacturer, environmental protection only exists in government communication, in fact, it sells our country's natural resources to the multinationals, and does not take into account the interests of the population. The purpose of the protocol covered by the bill is to monitor, reduce or eliminate emissions and losses of persistent organic pollutants. Pursuant to Article 6, an important element of the Protocol is to raise public awareness, in order to provide all information on pollutants to direct users in order to avoid or at least reduce the risks of adverse effects. On the basis of the bill, therefore, it requires cooperation with the public and information to be provided on organic pollutants, whereas the opinion of the local population is not taken into account when setting up battery factories that cause directly more serious health damage due to heavy metal pollution. They're doing everything they can to prevent the public from expressing their views. One way of doing this was by rejecting the initiative of the Hungarian Movement for a local referendum on the Debrecen battery plant, and by executing the institution of public hearing with a government decree in April. It's 146/2023. under a government decree, with reference to a war emergency, public authorities and local authorities may hold a public hearing without the presence of the persons concerned; it is enough to publish on their website the information they consider important and to answer the public's questions on this interface. Of course, it is not clear how these questions are addressed to the authorities. In doing so, investors are exempted from having to answer unpleasant questions face-to-face regarding large-scale investments, such as industrial investments affecting or even threatening the lives of the local population. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Although the public forums in Debrecen, Nyíregyháza and Göd show that despite the fact that the residents gave their views, this did not have any effect on licensing bodies, investors or even local Fidesz politicians, who in many cases did not attend the events. It also showed how interested they were in cooperating with the population in relation to pollution. Exchange of information on hazardous substances on the part of the government means that data on factories will be encrypted for several decades and they will not even provide information on what and how many accidents have occurred in the plants. A good example of this is the Samsung factory in Göd, where the number of fines could reach 39, which was imposed on the factory because of the violations. Furthermore, Annex 1 to the Protocol lists DDT as one of the pollutants, which was first extracted in the world in 1968, and was previously detected in the shell of imported citrus fruits in Hungary. The marketing of food contaminated with DDT is also not supported internationally. I ask the Secretary of State, as a question, whether there is currently a food product imported from countries where the use of DDT is still permitted. Overall, the Hungarian Movement objects to the possibility of signing an international agreement without domestic legislation giving the public the opportunity to be informed or to have a say. They build factories on high - quality, multi - gold - crowned lands that seem to benefit the local population by recruiting foreign migrant workers now and sacrificing not only our water supply, but even the health of the population. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-05-23-176	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Rebecca Szabó, the Dialogue Group.
u2023-05-23-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The signing of the Convention will be supported by the Dialogue-Greens in itself, but I think that there is too much to talk about in Hungary about air pollution and how much, to say the government still has to do in this area. I would just like to point out one aspect that I would like to ask you about. We also talked about burning up waste, and that, in fact, avar burning is something like that. Some people treat it as a kind of waste, although avar is part of the cycle of nature, and, in truth, it is very useful, because it can be composted, but unfortunately, we know that avar burning is still a custom in the country. This is very bad in a number of ways: on the one hand, because of the release of highly harmful, toxic substances, it is harmful to health, on the other hand, it is bad for the living world, because they live in avars, sometimes hedgehogs go there to fill them, and then they light the avar on the poor. For this reason, there was theoretically such a decision, partly because of an EU regulation, that avar burning would have been prohibited in Hungary. I remember that it would be prohibited since 1 January last year, but because there is an emergency, so I am told, but correct me if I am wrong, that it is still under the authority of the municipal authorities, and indeed many municipalities have not decided to prohibit avar burning; it is forbidden in Budapest, but not in many other municipalities. I think it would be very important for this rule to finally come into force, and it really should be forbidden to burn, but since the Fidesz government is constantly prolonging the emergency situation, God knows why because it is obviously very beneficial for you to have regulation, but I think it should now be, let me say, not so much longer, in any case, as I understand, it is still not completely forbidden to burn avar in the whole country, and this is also very bad in terms of air pollution, among other things. So please let me know what's going on, what's going on, when it's going to be forbidden, or if I'm wrong, then I'll be very happy about it, because then I only happen to see smoking avarcades from time to time in the Hungarian landscapes. Thank you.
u2023-05-23-178	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now possible to speak for two minutes if someone wishes to live with it. [[No one's reporting.]] [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I would like to ask if someone would like to apply for a further speech. (No one's reporting.) No one's heard from you, either. If there is no candidate, the joint general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if she wishes to respond to what has been said. [[Dr. Anikó Raisz:]] Yeah. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
u2023-05-23-179	Thank you very much. What is important with regard to the legislative proposals before us is that we can confirm that I believe that what happened last time will happen again, and if I interpret it correctly, all the groups will support these proposals, which we thank you very much for. Let me remind you once again that if we want a clean Hungary, air quality is really important to us. That's how I started the expo, and in the expo, I've mentioned a few examples of not all of what has been done in the past. I think I can reassure everyone that we are not going to stop doing this, we are going to continue to work in this area as well. So let me reassure everyone that environmental protection in Hungary is a process, environmental controls and authorisations are in any way to be seen in a process, so from the time of planning and, as has been mentioned, this will be done in the course of operation. So let's take care of ourselves, our country, our fellow citizens, because it's our business. Thank you once again for giving us support on this protocol from all the political groups. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-23-180	I thank the Secretary of State for her reply. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. [[19.10]] Dear Parliament, Before we get to the next item on the agenda, I would like to request your understanding of a technical break of up to two minutes. Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári is already in the House, will arrive in a few minutes and we will continue our work. With all due respect to your understanding, one moment, breathtaking pause, and as soon as you arrive, we will proceed immediately. (Recess: 19.10-19.12) President: István Jakab Note: Dr. István Tiba)
u2023-05-23-181	Dear Parliament, Since we've finished our break, we'll continue our work. The 1995 LVII on water management follows. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Government referral T/4029. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, Deputy Minister, author of the item on the agenda. Deputy Minister, you have the floor.
u2023-05-23-182	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The amendment to the Water Management Act is now being discussed in this House. The bill addresses an important issue for farmers and farmers on the farm, when it is reassuring to regulate the situation of domestic and agricultural irrigation wells established in the absence of a permit. It is well known to all of us that as a result of climate change, the weather of our country is characterised by extreme weather events, heat and drought are common. The ever-increasing lack of precipitation causes drought, which is the same as in the gardens of family households in areas affected by intensive agricultural production. The lack of water has a negative impact on crop production and the fallout should therefore be replaced. The water supply in agriculture is watering. Surface and groundwater can be used for irrigation, groundwater can be extracted from wells, and therefore the primary objective is to ensure that wells are as free from administrative burdens as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment to the Water Management Act was initiated by the Government in order to facilitate the establishment and operation of wells in a specific area. By amending the law, the government intends to promote stable access to water for the population and farmers. It reduces the use of wired water in addition to the use of domestic wells, the maintenance of green vegetation and the cultivation of small gardens, which contributes to the safe water supply of the population. First, I would like to describe the section of the bill on domestic wells, which introduces new standards for the limited use of water by natural water users. On the one hand, the amendment reclassifies the establishment, operation and termination of a household well below 50 m depth and the first waterproofing layer in areas affecting sensitive water resources from the circle subject to authorisation to be subject to notification. On the other hand, the amendment removes the obligation to permit household wells not more than 50 metres in length and not exceeding the first waterproofing layer if they do not affect sensitive water supply. On the regulatory issue of the bill, the Constitutional Court has already laid down guidelines and frameworks to be taken into account in the legislative process. The amendment therefore establishes a new set of rules for the water rights licensing of domestic wells on the basis of the relevant decision of the Constitutional Court. Dear House, The regulatory proposal to be negotiated is based on several essential elements which are of a guarantee nature. Allow me to present in detail the content of the bill. The basis for the notification or unlicensed classification of household wells is the country map of risky and risk-free areas for the protection of water resources. It is for the government to prepare and publish this map. The map visually distinguishs karst formations for drinking water and drinking water base protection areas from other areas that are far less sensitive. Everything is relevant to the location of the wells. One of the starting points for this new regulation is therefore the country map. Another cornerstone of the bill is the introduction of a well meeting household water demand. Household water demand means the use of water for drinking water or domestic use of the natural person. With the definition of the well, the bill also sets a quantitative limit on the removal of water from the well and a limit of 500 cubic metres per year. The regulation also covers the household well used by the natural person by using the property at the location of the well not on his own property, but on the basis of a service, employee or rental relationship. Thus, the bill applies not only to household wells belonging to the private property of citizens, but also to public, municipal, corporate or rented property. The regulation does not distinguish between domestic wells on residential, outdoor and closed garden properties, and therefore also applies to wells providing domestic use on farms. Ladies and gentlemen, According to current knowledge, the depth limit of the groundwater base is generally 50 metres in Hungary, and wells up to a maximum depth of 50 metres must be groundwater wells. The third pillar of the bill is therefore the rule that the base depth of the household well does not exceed 50 metres and does not reach the first waterproofing layer. The double condition, i.e. the depth of 50 metres, and within it the first waterproofing layer as a boundary, ensures that the household well does not in any way touch the drinking water base. Achieving a waterproofing layer would pose the risk of mixing the water supply of groundwater and other deeper drinking water-grade layers separated by a waterproof layer, which could ultimately cause pollution and water degradation. When the waterproofing layer is reached, the well is already covered by another regulatory category and authorisation. The new regulation therefore covers shallower wells that meet the needs of domestic water. The bill states as the fourth node that household wells can be established, operated and eliminated by reporting to the water authority in areas sensitive to the protection of water resources and therefore to be protected. [[19.20]] However, in areas which do not pose a risk to water supply on the basis of a national map, it is not justified to maintain the obligation to authorise domestic wells, since the latter range of wells does not have a significant environmental impact and does not jeopardise the quality of water bases providing drinking water. An important requirement of the bill is also the well amnesty, according to which household wells established without authorisation before 1 January 2024 which are not more than 50 metres deep and which do not exceed the first waterproofing layer are fully exempted from the authorisation requirement, so these wells are legally established. The legal reason for this exemption is that for decades household wells could be established practically without restriction on private land. This is the result of the current large number of unlicensed wells. The well amnesty relieves citizens of a great administrative and financial burden. Dear House, The bill introduces the new regulation in the light of the previous decision of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court was concerned about the regulatory solution that would have allowed the establishment and operation of wells without authorisation, up to 80 metres in depth without quantitative restrictions on water abstraction. Therefore, the rules of the new bill to be negotiated by the Parliament allow only relief to the shallow bottom of the wells up to a depth of 50 metres. For deeper wells producing layers or karst water, the current regulation, the authorisation obligation, remains valid. The bill is therefore based on the provisions of the guarantees described. The household well is free of authorisation if it meets the quantitative requirement for water removal laid down in the bill, the water use goal, the foot depth limit and the boundary rules of the first waterproofing layer. In addition, shortly after the publication of the legislative amendment, the water stock protection country map will be available to the public, which categorizes the country's water base protection area in terms of the location of the well. Regional risk categories are relevant because it depends on the location of the household well that the well is covered by an authorisation-free or compulsory notification. Ladies and gentlemen, In the changing climate conditions, it is also important to ensure access to water for farmers producing crops, in addition to meeting the water needs of small-scale farming. The starting point for the regulation is also the territorial categories defined in the Water Supply Country Map for agricultural irrigation wells. In water resources risk-free areas, a well not exceeding 50 metres in depth and not exceeding the first waterproofing layer can be established, operated or eliminated by reporting to the irrigation administration, the National Earth Management Centre. Otherwise, the water rights of the agricultural irrigation well shall be authorised. The agricultural well, either declared or operated on the basis of a water rights permit, can be operated using a digital wellwater meter measuring the amount of water, which clearly monitors the use of the water supply. The bill also allows the survival of unlicensed agricultural irrigation wells, established before 1 January 2024, which do not exceed 50 metres in depth and which do not reach the first waterproofing layer, with wellamnesty on the basis of the legal grounds indicated at household wells. Based on the well amnesty, they do not require a subsequent water permit or notification. However, the establishment or survival of a well for agricultural irrigation with a depth of more than 50 metres or through the first waterproofing layer will continue to be possible only on the basis of water rights authorisation. Mr President, Dear House, I believe that the bill presented provides a good solution to the situation of small wells with guarantee rules. I ask this House to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-23-183	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your presentation. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Font Sándor, President of the Committee on Agriculture, lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2023-05-23-184	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I could say that a cross-border issue has been brought back to Parliament, as we have dealt with this issue already in the period 2014-18 and 2018-22, with the issue of the issue of wells drilled without authorisation at the time, after the European Union called on Member States to report on groundwater abstractions, how it was done, and perhaps its known quantity between 2014 and 2018. It is well known that there are a significant number of drilled wells and wells in Hungary. This is due to the geographical nature of Hungary, in many places from the plains, but also from the fact that we are a water-receiving country, and therefore we have significant groundwater resources, which may be used for irrigation or residential purposes. As the Secretary of State pointed out, until 1964 there was virtually no regulation for the construction of wells dug or drilled. Between 1964 and 1992, a partial regulation was already in place and the establishment of wells could be permitted if minimum conditions were met. Since 1992, the legislation at that time required the establishment of wells to exclude a certain amount of water, including authorisation as a notary. Then, from 1996 on, a 1995 law, still much controversial, which is LVII. At the end of the year, the Horn government finally introduced some wells drilled or dug to obtain a so-called water rights permit. This legislation was updated between 2014-18, but it turned out that, for the historical reasons mentioned above, a very large number of wells and wells are expected to be drilled and dug, and it is extremely difficult for owners to account for this, because in the procedural order conditions were laid down that would have burdened well owners with complex administration and significant costs if they had complied with the legislation at that time. Therefore, at the end of 2017, towards the end of the cycle, we announced amnesty, a temporary suspension until 31 December 2018 to clarify, calm down, and see how this issue can be resolved. Three conditions must be met by all legislation involved in this case, namely to meet the passage of the EU's water framework directive in this area, to maintain environmental protection elements, including water base protection elements, and, of course, to resolve the legalisation of unlicensed wells. At the end of 2017 we could not find an answer, so there was an amnesty by the end of 2018. The obligation to notify was not imposed on such well-owners. In 2018, one of the main tasks of the new Parliament was to adopt a summer law, in our view, the legislation that correctly regulates this issue. However, this law was transferred to the Constitutional Court, and the Constitutional Court found it to be unconstitutional on several points, and therefore terminated the legislation. [[19.30]] At that time, we announced another amnesty, as Parliament's work started again in September and October 2018, and we should have passed an immediate legislation by the end of the year 18, since the amensty period lasted until then. Therefore, we decided to try to establish a single position by 31 December 2020 in order to meet the previous three conditions. It has to be admitted that this did not work either, and there were a lot of conflicting aspects, and this is how the legislation also set a new amnesty date in the autumn of 2020 until 31 December 2023 and thus until the end of this year. So it became clear that this issue should be addressed again at the latest this semester, and, as I mentioned, to comply with the Water Framework Directive, environmental principles, water base protection principles and the legalization and inventory of wells owned or dug by well owners. I claim that the bill presented by the Secretary of State and read by you fulfils these conditions. This bill is based on three pillars. It has already been said here that the authorities have to establish and publish a country map of water supply protection in an official paper by 31 August. This will show where, which settlements are in an area where we have a sensitive water base to protect. I do not want to go too far, but according to our current knowledge, this is expected to be 12-15 percent of Hungary's territory, but we will wait for this map, where we have a very sensitive water base, and those very special rules apply to those which have already been mentioned by the Secretary of State. So it's a water supply country map that we're going to need for the law to work. The second pillar is that it has finally been defined, what is domestic water demand, what is meant by this, who belongs here, and what is the quantity that we define as such household water demand. And now we know that the water consumption of individuals in their environment is the demand for domestic water, which does not come on the pipeline, including in places where there is no water supply at all, such as the farm settlements, and the peripheral areas of Hungary, where there is no water supply on the land, where it is natural that drinking water is provided from a well that has been dug long ago, even from a well drilled today. This consumption should not reach 500 cubic metres per year, which is the concept of household water demand. And the third point, the parameters mentioned here several times, is that these wells must not be more than 50 metres deep and cannot reach the first waterproofing layer. In the case of such drilled or dug wells established before 1 January 2024 either in interiors, gardens, closed gardens, real estate areas or outland watering wells, I stress that these wells are not deeper than 50 metres and the rest are legalised by the power of the law. I can translate: the owners of such a well need not do anything, with this law it will be legal, quasi-licensed to use their well. And, of course, the law also provides for what will happen after 1 January 2024, here two ways to choose household wells and external watering wells for economic purposes. The procedure is different here, since wells with a minimum depth of not more than 50 metres can be installed there automatically at a well that meets the demand for domestic water, which is not included in the water supply map. These areas are included in the critical water base protection map, but an authorisation procedure should be carried out in those areas. In the same way, external irrigation wells can be established after 2024 so that at these wells there are no wells deeper than 50 metres of base, if they do not fall into the critical areas marked in the water supply protection country map, they only have a reporting obligation, and if they drill deeper or if they fall into the critical area, they must carry out the administrative procedure there. I believe that the often critical water framework directive and the protection of Hungary's water base are also adequately protected. I note that the Ministry of the Interior did not put forward this bill blindly, not without any experience, because, as I said, the European Union has called on all Member States to clarify the water extraction points from the surface, their location and the amount withdrawn from it. For this reason, the government has examined the procedures of Bulgaria, Croatia and Lithuania from the neighbouring countries on this issue, and they already have the law in place. I have to say that one country or another has imposed far more favourable conditions than we are setting here, and the EU has not raised any objections to them, as they have also taken advantage of the possibility that the Water Framework Directive says that water extraction facilities which do not pose a risk to water resources in that country can be exempted from regulation. They did so in other neighbouring countries. We also live here with this passage of the Water Framework Directive. And thank God, I think that in the overall proposal, it is also an important step to comply with the survey, where these wells are and what location these wells are, so the bill suggests that at the next microcension, microcension census and the upcoming national census, an additional question will be included in the list of questions, namely about dug or drilled wells on the property of the person in question, about their location. In this way, a process will begin, at the end of which, both during the census and in the microcensored data collection period, we believe that we will be able to obtain the data that we are able to use statistically and possibly forward them to the Union. In conclusion, I say that this draft law is eligible. And for the owners of drilled wells, it is said that if they meet the aforementioned conditions, i.e. not more than 50 metres in depth, they do not violate a waterproofing layer and do not use more than 500 cubic metres per year, their well will be legalised by law, and they do not need to make any initial announcement in this respect. Those who differ from these will have to do so after reading the legislation, it will be minimal, much more minimal than the regulation that has been put in place, but they will have the task of contacting the competent authority and examining exactly the conditions under which the required well can be achieved. Thank you very much for your attention. I ask you to support this bill. The Fidesz fraction will support you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-23-185	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[19.40]]
u2023-05-23-186	Dear House, There are issues that the country has been dealing with for a long time, and which are not worth politicizing indefinitely, even if there have been efforts to do so over the past period. Such a question is the question of wells dug and drilled or water management in general. Of course, I can talk about it, and I have the vocabulary to say that the continuing regulatory changes, the failure to find a satisfactory solution to this issue in recent years, also have government reasons. This includes a culture or a governance structure where water management is not really the owner of water management, where in certain aspects it belongs to agricultural wallets, in other aspects other wallets, in total three wallets, and there is no really strong government representation of water. It is also true that often unviable regulations have been put in place, as is the case in this case, that there has been a lack of proper consultation with stakeholders, that there has been a lack of discussions, negotiations where perhaps these kinds of regulatory errors, these practical difficulties could have come to light earlier. As it is worth adding that some of these errors have already been indicated by our fellow Members, representative organisations have indicated. But the truth is that it is essentially a matter that is really very difficult to resolve, which is difficult to deal with by law. This issue must not be resolved primarily because it is required by the EU Water Directive; it is also reflected in the directive that the issue of drinking water, in general the issue of water, the question of irrigation is referred to in Article XXI. In the first century, if not the only and most important question. Because of climate change and its consequences, its impact on our lives, agriculture, our everyday lives and its impact on water management and microclimate, of course, these issues are essential for you to use this word, let me use them now, too, as a matter of national strategy. And here there is a serious conflict of interests, that is quite clear, because of course we all want to protect the water base, and we want to ensure that it stays clean, that is available, and even if possible to prepare and adapt to the increasingly difficult climatic conditions, which are particularly characteristic of the Carpathian Basin. On the other hand, however, it is also completely understandable that people who have been digging and drilled in the past, who water their own garden or water their own farm, have difficulty bearing it, do not want to live with the fact that they cannot use these wells in this situation, just in the context of an increasingly warm climate, or actually have to pay fees that are priceless to them. It is therefore quite obvious that there is a need for change. The regulation in force today is simply unviable and unenforceable. It represents administrative burdens and costs which these people and businesses with wells are clearly unable to bear today, and at the same time, I would add that, as a result, under the law, the possibility would have remained to impose mass fines on people from next year onwards. I would add that the imposition and recovery of fines would also require enormous capacity. So we approve and support the government's abandonment of this idea. We will therefore support the bill because we consider that the bill will improve the situation in its current form. We do not say that it is too dangerous from an environmental point of view to say this, but, in any case, it eliminates an impossible situation, an impossible life situation. However, we also believe that this has not solved the problem. We therefore wish to present an amending proposal to this law, which does not impose burdens on citizens, but requires the government to draw up a national water management plan that fully explores this issue, which will allow us to understand the short, long and medium-term environmental and economic impacts that will enable us not only to find a solution in the short term, but also to provide irrigation water in the longer term, to provide drinking water, and to be able to maintain the green nature in the Carpathian Basin, in Hungary, so that we do not start a dangerous desertification process in Hungary. Therefore, this plan should cover the protection of water resources; it should cover how rainwater can be better preserved and used, how, what techniques can be used to ensure that the Carpathian Basin and Hungary's current territory do not flow through much of the water yield, how it can be achieved under rational conditions to ensure the use of drinking water, household water consumption, irrigation of small gardens, or even to meet the need to irrigate agriculture. We would therefore like this plan to include measures to prepare for increasingly frequent drought situations, measures to adapt to climate change, and, in general, a plan that is indeed a national joint issue, involving stakeholders, not behind their backs, not without them, but asking them, to develop a comprehensive national water management strategy that, in good cases, will ensure that we have adequate drinking water, adequate irrigation water, I add, suitable industrial water, not for a run-off battery stream, but for the operation of a sustainable, realistic and knowledge-based Hungarian industry and economy for many decades. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to one more thing. We feel that the government has made one of the biggest mistakes in this case by not providing adequate, detailed and reassuring information to the citizens concerned. A lot of fear and hostility comes from the lack of confidence in the government, let's say, we understand, but the government has done nothing to reassure these citizens. I would like to draw attention to the need to do so now, because, for example, the water protection country map will once again be published in a non-transparent way. I understand that Congressman Font already has some suspicions about him, which I do not admire, because he has been an expert on the subject for a long time, but I am sure that a good part of the citizens will not understand what it means to live in a highly sensitive area of this kind of water image protection, what additional burdens it represents for him. Therefore, I would like to draw the attention of the Government to the fact that there is a significant and substantive obligation to provide information here, and indeed information about this must be given to all citizens in a way that is accessible to them. You have experience in this for far less noble purposes. This information network is now being used to disseminate useful information. Let citizens know how this provision affects them; tell them what they have to do to do, reassure those who have nothing to do and, if available on the other side of the letter, perhaps also make some suggestions on how to use drinking water and water from wells in different areas in a rational and environmentally efficient way. Thank you so much for listening. [[Bence of Rétvári applauds.]]
u2023-05-23-187	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2023-05-23-188	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We all feel that this is a very important topic and that the weather in our country is becoming increasingly extreme today. On the one hand, we have to face droughts in the summer and on the other hand, precipitation distribution is becoming increasingly uneven. The amount of precipitation per year is increasingly concentrated, falling down in less days in our country. Under these circumstances, we must ensure stable access to water supply for households, bearing in mind that these environmental challenges and drought damage affect not only large-scale agriculture, but also the daily lives of families. They can also cause damage to backyard farming and the maintenance of small gardens in the absence of proper irrigation. [[19.50]] As a result, household wells are becoming more and more relevant, and we can ensure these other household water requirements for families, thereby reducing the use of intensive water in rainy periods. Ladies and gentlemen, As the Secretary of State and my fellow Member stressed, it is very important to point out here that we are discussing one year of water extraction with a production limit of 500 cubic metres according to the bill for natural persons today, but this quantitative limit is only one of the strict conditions under which this type of well can be built. Another important point is that the depth of these wells cannot reach the depth of 50 metres or the first waterproofing layer, since, according to our current knowledge, the depth limit of the groundwater base is generally 50 metres. This double condition is also of particular importance because it can prevent such groundwater wells from touching a valuable drinking water base by breaking through the waterproofing layer. This prevents household wells from having a significant environmental impact. The current legislation and the obligation to authorise wells producing deeper layers or karst water will continue to apply. The third important element of the proposal is that the exemption from notification can only be granted to these household wells if they are installed in water resources risk-free areas. To check whether an area belongs to this category or not, we would create a country map identifying areas to be protected from a water resource protection point of view, to which my fellow Member referred, which categorizes the territory of the country on a scientific basis for the protection of drinking water base and which becomes available to all citizens. This territorial risk classification will depend in the future on the obligation to notify a well, as if it were to be established in a risky area, it will have to be reported to the water authorities. This map would first be published on 31 August 2023 and updated or revised every six years. To sum up the above, I would like to emphasise once again the essential element that the establishment, operation and elimination of domestic wells in water areas which satisfy the demand for domestic water, which are not more than 50 metres deep and which do not reach the first waterproofing layer, and which are not vulnerable to water protection, would be subject to authorisation. In areas involving sensitive water resources, wells complying with the previous conditions will be subject to notification in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill amending the Water Management Act is also very important and topical because it settles the issue with one voice and eliminates legal uncertainty about household wells, for example, which were established in the previous period in addition to a changing regulatory environment. The current bill provides a reassuring solution to the situation of domestic and agricultural irrigation wells established for farm farmers and farmers without a permit before 1 January 2024. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr State Secretary also explained in detail the decision of the Constitutional Court, which is taken into account by the amendment with the definition of a lower depth restriction and the introduction of a quantitative limit. Guaranteed elements in the bill avoid the risk of reducing the drinking water base by means of household wells and keeping the abstraction within a pre-defined quantitative framework. Of course, the KDNP faction supports it. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-23-189	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr János Bencze, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2023-05-23-190	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, It is possible that we have come to a point that may have been Hungary's dream since the change of regime, because I feel that we have come to the point where there is a national minimum in which we agree, as I have listened to the speakers before me. This is an agricultural topic, and what I used to say, Hungary was created by God as an agricultural country, and I very much hope that these agricultural themes will continue to run through such common accord, and such practical solutions will be created. From this material, which is in front of me, I feel that the complaints, ideas and criticisms of Hungarian farmers, agricultural workers have reached the government, reached the Committee on Agriculture, and there is a very clear practical material. Sometimes when I joke among myself in politics, I say that a parliament is my dream, where practical farmers are in the majority, and then the debates end quickly, along common interests and in the interests of the country. But the joke aside, it's really such a material, and I'm very happy about that. I hope that all the agricultural issues that we bring to the Parliament will find such a solution, because we have countless such topics. On the subject of water, I could say that I would be very happy if the topic of water retention overwhelms all kinds of government propaganda, European politics, everything, and that the interests of Hungarian farmers, the interests of the Carpathian Basin, were to be created either on the Danube, on the Tisza and on other watercourses, which serve water retention and irrigation in the area. I would like to highlight a project that has been launched a long time ago, and is on the verge of progress, and I recommend it to the government, the so-called Sió project. This was created by Tolna County by Tolna County, the county assembly, and if it were to be implemented, it would be exemplary in terms of water retention, water management and irrigation, and I would like many of these plans to be implemented in this country. It would be like the Danube-Tisza channel, which is very important and has been said many times. I would very much like these water-holding works to be accompanied by laws, supported by the same practical legislation, to assist irrigation plants, which are well, simply, understandable and equally feasible. I wouldn't be able to put criticism on the contrary, because, as I said, it's a national minimum, I see a tiny thing in it, but that's what this water supply national map will decide. This is the irrigation of agricultural wells that do not require water law permits and announcements for those not exceeding 50 metres in depth. It should be noted, however, that there are critical areas in Hungary where this is a problem, and I am thinking of the sandback, where I have visited farmers many times. I have a feeling that since we don't know this map yet, I very much hope that the sandback will be on it, because there can also be huge practical problems with a low bottom well. So I'm telling you openly, capital-powered farmers can simply pump the small water supply in the soil away from the smaller ones. I very much hope that this map will be based on common sense, good professionals, and protect this water base. I'd like to bring one more topic in here, and I'm only bringing it here because I really hope that those who are here will get in their ears the same way, and it's just as fast and practical. This is linked to a leading theme: Ukrainian grain, which was approached by farmers, whose good-quality grain stocks last year were stuck there. Last year they couldn't sell, they couldn't pay taxes last year, and this year, as the Secretary of State Farkas said, a good crop is expected, and they will have to pay taxes after two years of production, and this will be very serious problems, because despite the good intentions, despite the reduced agricultural taxation, this will go beyond, and in addition to the depressed prices, this will cause a great deal of damage to farmers. So I would ask the President of the Committee on Agriculture, Mr Font Sándor, to sit down on this subject, to talk, to listen, and to try to achieve something in common, because, as I said, agriculture, as I see it, is a national minimum, in this we must reach a joint decision so that Hungarian farmers can stay on their feet in this difficult situation and do well. I can conclude by saying one thing: as a rural and agricultural representative of the group of Jobbik-Conservatives, I can state on behalf of the entire faction that we can fully support this bill, and I would like to spend the next three years here in Parliament with all this material coming before us. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
u2023-05-23-191	Thank you, Congressman. The keynote speaker will never be interrupted, of course I took note, but please keep to the point. Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dávid Dócs, the lead speaker of the group of our countries. Here you go, Congressman. [[20.00]]
u2023-05-23-192	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I could say that here, after the agreement between farmers and non-farmers, after the consensus between the parties, after the Agrarian Ministry recognised the importance of the subject and rang the alarm bells, after the high professional material was submitted to Parliament by Mr Font Sándor, President of the Committee on Agriculture, or after a discreet meeting of Secretary of State Bence Rétvári with my colleague Gergely Arató, and then thank God for something, they could finally agree on this, I could only say that I would ask for coffee. But it's not that clear, because we should turn back a little bit in time, see how we got here. I was pleased to hear that everyone, regardless of the parties, considered the water management of our country to be very important, but I would like to say that besides wells, water management is also about other things, such as decades or centuries of delays, thanks to which last year we saw how droughts could cause damage to Hungarian agriculture, Hungarian people and Hungarian households. I think that it is not possible to charge any government for centuries of omissions, but I would also like to say that the Fidesz government and left-wing governments would have had the opportunity to remedy, solve and eliminate these problems, and my fellow Member, János Bencze, quite rightly mentioned the cancelled project we used to refer to as the Danube-Tisza channel. I took the liberty of asking the Minister of Agriculture a written question concerning this, and the cross-border water escape at the Tisza itself, the Csongrád-Bokros, which has been planned for a very long time, to the Minister of Agriculture, who handed the matter over to the Ministry of the Interior, and the Minister of Interior authorised the Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to answer me. The answer, which was very exhausting, thank you very much. Although I don't really want it on the Fidesz government. To account for Charles' absences and omissions, I think that Mr. Secretary of State is the master of cynical answers, and I have received the answer, and in truth it did not reveal when we were going to build a water escape between Csongrád and Bokros, i.e. the Hungarian state. I have yet to find out two more questions, since the Secretary of State was kind enough to refer me back to his first and then his second answer. So we do not really know that the waters that are now unlimitedly released from the country when they will be caught, when we will be able to dampen the damage caused by drought that a lot of farmers have been forced to survive last year. I could say that I want to say that our country could be a small Canaan flowing with water, because we have been a country with agricultural characteristics for centuries, and we have been a pantry of Europe. Today, due to some flawed strategic directions, we have become more of a automotive assembly plant after the country of iron and steel, and now I want to turn the country into a large power of a battery factory. I don't think that's the right thing to do. I don't think we're going to have to get these battery companies to water here. It's not enough, isn't it, that there's a battery factory in Debrecen now, and a second battery plant is now logged in, and a second battery plant will be built here. I think that we need to provide water to Hungarian farmers, especially in areas of poverty that, let's say, lie between our two largest rivers, because the number of countries between the Danube and the Tisza is half a country, or it could be said that smaller European countries, ranging from Jászság to the sandback, have simply not been able to provide water in the last decades. This has resulted in desertification processes already taking place on the sand bank. I believe that if the Danube-Clean Channel and the associated sewer systems are not restored, this process will continue to deteriorate, and it is feared that it will eventually reach the level when it becomes irreversible. I would also like to draw attention to a flawed approach. It is quite simply what we adopt before legislation, and what the legislative proposals contain, that is very important, although professional implementation is equally important. I would therefore like to come to you all the way from Csongrád-Csanád County, where our excellent county municipal representative, Zsolt Laczkó, has contacted the county assembly that the sewer system, which is located here in the southern lowland region, could not only be used to lead inland waters, but indeed in reverse it could be used to promote water retention. Both winter rainwater could be caught in these, and when there is a flood wave on one of our rivers, in this case here on the Tisza, this flood wave could be used to fill these sewer systems in floodwater reservoirs. This would prevent drought from once again exerting such an ordeal on the country. Unfortunately, the Hungarian water industry is preparing for flood protection even in the drought of the century. So in Csongrád-Csanád county, what has happened is that winter waters have been simply pumped out of these sewer systems instead of being filled up. So I think that this misthinking can also lead to the country's desiccation, or, if we mention that there is a water supply country map, which I think we should especially be happy about, then perhaps we should also mention on this map the areas where there is a huge problem with water management. This should be stopped in the future, and I therefore propose to the government that priority subsidies be given to these regions, because I think that there have been enough investments that most Hungarian people might not have agreed in this country, but we have seen consensus that water management needs to be restored. If I have mentioned water management, what is most common at household level is that if you want to use your own well. After the Agrarian Ministry rang the bell, I think we're in the right direction. Although I would like to add that I think that we may be a little bit part of the bill that is currently in front of us. I am not saying this, but, as a compliment, left-wing politicians acknowledged it, because we were the ones who raised our voices against a well-scart or tax, who collected tens of thousands of signatures for the sake of the topic and, in practice, the owners of wells and wells, and we were the ones who, constantly walking around the countryside, tried to ask people to support us in finally bringing this bill against the well-shark into a bed that would serve the greatest satisfaction of most political parties, as well as of Hungarian well-owners and people. I think that, although this proposal could have been even more lenient, we should at least acknowledge those parts that are really good, because well amnesty is indeed a wonderful thing, especially if it was introduced instead of a well tax, but brave, as my fellow Member Font mentioned, we hope that after the next census, when these wells are mapped, this will not be on the agenda again, and we hope that then this chewed-up bone will not be taken up again. So, as a party that plays a constructive opposition role in the Hungarian Parliament, Mi Hazank Movement considers this bill to be eligible, but it would be very good if it could be modified a little more, so we will also make an amendment. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause from the ranks of the ruling parties and our country.]]
u2023-05-23-193	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Ms Rebecca Szabó, lead speaker of the Dialogue Group. Here you go.
u2023-05-23-194	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Well, part of the welcome is this bill that lies before us. I think that, as President Font Sándor said, it has indeed been going for years, how can I say, the somewhat untraceable, new and new deadline amendment on the authorisation of wells, on the authorisation of drilled and dug wells, and it really was not clear to people what to do now. Due to the previous deadline until the end of this year, on the one hand, many people have faced the enormous cost of allowing these wells, on the other hand, and on the other hand, they have often found that, on the one hand, there is no capacity for the right professionals to do so in that time, and, on the other hand, different settlements and different municipalities have made different forms available, so I have to say that there has been quite a bit of chaos on this subject. It is therefore to be welcomed that the government is somehow trying to put this in order, and, moreover, the Dialogue-Greens have also put forward a proposal for a resolution in which, among other things, we have proposed that a simple and comprehensible form containing the basic data of the well should be regularised for the notification, which is general and applies to all settlements. But in addition to that, we had another proposal, which is different from what is now in the government's proposal. We wanted these wells to be announced, so we had to make a simple announcement without cost. So it is very important that we too wanted to make sure that people, often small-money people, did not have to pay hundreds of thousands of forints or even, I don't know, 100,000 forints for these wells. [[20.10]] So let's make a simple announcement, because I think, on the other hand, and we green people think that the information would be very important for a state to know the density of such drilled and dug wells. And the truth is that, according to this proposal, such wells, established before 1 January 2024, will not be subject to authorisation at all, but I see that they will not, in fact, be subject to notification, but will not be able to do so only in areas sensitive to the protection of water resources, but before 1 January 2024. So I do not know how you will know if wells are still being drilled, say, from May to December this year in these areas, if this map is not yet available, because, moreover, it is also stated in this bill that this map for risk-free areas sensitive to water resources should be drawn up. So now they're actually doing a general well amnesty by not knowing what and how many wells there are in these sensitive areas, and I see this as a problem, and I see it as a problem in terms of protecting water resources management. Our proposal was that this could have been resolved in such a way as not to impose a financial burden on the people, but to get information to the state, and to do something about it later, even because if you look at drought maps in the country, you can see that a significant part of the country has been hit by drought. We can also see that there is a map available, the geoportal on the water side, where if you look at the different groundwater wells, although it is okay that there has been a lot of rain in the past period, the groundwater level in the groundwater wells has not yet regenerated, and if you look at, say, the average of the last decades, you can see that practically in a large part of the country, in the whole of the Great Plain, and in the Danube I have included part of it, the groundwater levels are much lower than in previous decades, so there is a falling groundwater level. Hungary is dry, Hungary is deserted. I think this is a warning sign that should be taken care of, and it would be important, even in the case of drilled wells, drilled or dug wells, to get the proper information to the state, and I do not see how this bill will ensure this. And I really ask that, with respect to Sándor Font or the Secretary of State, how this works, that if you don't need a permit for anything before 1 January 2024 and the entire water supply map will not be produced until later, then how will you know which well is actually in such a water resource protection area at the wells that have been established. That doesn't make any sense to me. And then my other problem with this bill is that you say you don't need a license up to a limit of 50 meters. What I don't know is that they're paired with proper controls? Obviously, you can't check every single well, but how about some random random check? So how do we actually rule out that not all wells should be announced at, say, 49 meters, and then how deep in reality they are; if there is no control, then I don't know how you'll know that. And again, it's not just that I have a problem with one man's well, it's that it could endanger groundwater levels, endanger water bases, and, in my opinion, it would be necessary to control them. So this is my other question: how will your proposal ensure that this depth can be checked, for example, if it does not require a plan, a permit, an investigation, or nothing. And I think that, by the way, this could have been resolved in such a way as to ensure proper professionalism and professionalism, but this should not cost the public money, and I see that because they didn't have a good idea to solve this, they are letting the reins go, and I think that there is a risk. And I will be very curious, by the way, about this map of water resources sensitive areas, how much part of this country you think belongs to, because I see a very significant part of it, and that means that information on these wells would be needed in a very significant area. By the way, since we are talking about water management and Hajnalka Juhász mentioned karst waters, there are obviously also karst water wells that they will be subject to authorisation, only if we have heard such beautiful phrases from the Fidesz-KDNP about water bases here, then I would like to say again that it is a pity that the karst water in Tata is being driven away because the battery factory in Komárom is going to use the water supply in the area, and that is why we have to replace the drinking water with the tata karst water. I know it's not the battery factory that goes directly to the Tata karst water, but the reason we have to produce it is because the Komárom battery plant uses a significant amount of water. So here again, there is a serious risk that this water level will sink, and the surrounding wetlands, the bogs, the springs, everything will fade again, they will dry out Tata's neighborhood there. And I think we should put this aside, too, that if we are concerned about the water bases, then that is why we should be concerned, but somehow when the word is said to be a battery factory, they suddenly forget their concerns about our water supplies. In addition, some of the speeches have been made; so the truth is that the problem with water management in Hungary is not that there are not enough channels, in fact that there is no Danube-Tisza channel, I hope that there will not be, or are not going to be such a plan to say, facilities, because, in fact, the point is not to dig as much as possible or to concrete as much as possible, but the point is that when there is water in the landscape, for example in inland waters or in the spring flood, we keep it in the landscape, we keep it in the soil, and we have the appropriate professional proposals for water management, landscape management and landscape use, who keep these proposals on the government table. And we, on the part of the Dialogue-Greens, would very much like for them not to listen to us, or listen to us anyway, I know that, but listen to the professionals, who say that it is necessary to preserve water in the landscape, and that this may involve a change of cultivation, and that if, say, a field is inland, then perhaps it should not be a field, but a culture of a different kind that tolerates water, because it is much better to switch landscapes than to lead the water from the landscape in a crazy way, which will then be badly missed in the summer drought, as the vegetation and soil are the best able to bind water or retain it, much better than any water reservoir built by man. So I would like to conclude with the idea that unfortunately I do not see the real sustainable water management in the government's plans, and although some of it, the discharge of people from the costs can be supported in the proposal, but I see several points in this form of water management and the preservation of our water resources as a concern. Thank you.
u2023-05-23-195	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, There are two-minute speeches coming up. I give the floor to Congressman Font Sándor, Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture. Here you go.
u2023-05-23-196	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's just very short reflections. Thank you for the contributions that support the majority of the final. I expected nothing else from Rebeka Szabó, the Dialogue, if I understand correctly, to continue demanding plans, authorisation obligations and investigations. [[Rebecca Szabó intervenes.]] All right, we've been trying to get out of this, because so far, it hasn't solved or imposed burdens on the owners that would have been risky enough to make them pay. I would add that János Bencze and David Dócs are members of the Committee on Agriculture, and thank God there are now two people in the Committee on Agriculture who know about agriculture. This is now a rare exception, and I thank you very much for their activity on the part of the opposition, because it is quite a cavalcade that characterizes the opposition in the field of agriculture. Most of them have absolutely no representation, several factions or opposition groups have no representation, which still has representation, so they still have to prove that they know something about this area. I do not want to give a general opinion on DK's latest candidate here, because we have only had a meeting two times since the re-election, now the third delegate is being delegated to the Committee on Agriculture. We are optimistic, there is professional work, and therefore they understand what it is about in this bill that I thank you for. [[20.20]] For the record, János Bencze said that it became a national minimum here, that harmony would be formed. Allow me, it may seem as if we have caused this here with Mr Secretary of State or with this proposal, and I have really worked a lot in this area for a long time, but the first national minimum in 2009, I dare say that I have caused it. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] by submitting the pálinka law when I was in opposition [[The president's ringing again.]] because it was voted in full compliance by Parliament. Maybe that was the first national minimum. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-23-197	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak on our agenda, whether in a two-minute or in a general framework. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Deputy Minister if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Yes, the floor is yours.
u2023-05-23-198	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank everyone for their attitude in the debate. It was a rare occasion, indeed, that as we went from faction to faction, everyone, with the exception of a tiny one, spoke in support of the proposal. We welcome all your well-meaning contributions and suggestions. One of these was an important call for information, because indeed, a lot of people need to know exactly what they need to do then, what they need not do, what part of the country lies in, what they do not have to do. But I think it's good news for most of us that he doesn't have a job with the well that he and his parents and even his grandparents used; it can continue to be used, there's no need to put a meter on it, no need to ask for any permission, no need to call an expert on it. You can use it the same way you've always used it, and you can water your garden or use it in the garden for whatever it takes. What has been raised in the context of the audit is also a citizen-friendly measure or part of this bill to reverse the burden of proof, so it is not the citizen who will have to prove from next year that he complies with the legal requirements, or that his well is not deeper than 50 metres, or that it does not reach the first waterproofing layer, but that the authority that carries out control will have to prove it. This is also important because proof costs tens of thousands of forints or even hundreds of thousands of forints, and this should not be covered by citizens who use the well that has been there in good faith, but, where appropriate, by the authority. The controls can therefore continue in a civil-friendly manner, with a burden of proof being reversed. I am pleased that there is indeed a broad consensus on the issue of well amnesty. One thing I would like to note is that this map will be completed by 31 August. As you know about the country's relations, there can be about one-eighth part of the area that belongs to the greater protection zone, but seven-eighths of the country are likely to be in the non-premium protected area, so the wells are much easier there. Everyone will be able to read this in the official bulletin at the end of the summer. A scientific summary will also be prepared for this map of the country, precisely so that everyone can learn the details of their tasks, what is not their task, what is to be taken care of, what is not to be taken care of, and what is not to be taken care of, from this brochure, from the scientific summary. We will also strive to get this news to the most clearly possible, but I ask those who are in the individual area, obviously many of us have met with this question, events, events, and events, so let us bring it to the news. Let us also say there, if the Parliament accepts this; I trust that it will accept by a large enough majority that from now on, people, who cultivate their own garden with their own hands, want to add something diligently to what is being created in Hungary, who care for their own gardens, whether they grow flowers or have vegetable-fruit gardens, to do this, and to produce or produce these things, the state will no longer be able to make any obstacles to them, but those who diligently cultivate their garden will be free to use water unless there is any special circumstances, so it is not particularly a protected site. I think it is important for all Hungarians to have access to natural resources, on a small scale, on a small scale, so we are not talking about large factories, but we are talking about people who are working on their own gardens or working on a certain scale in agriculture, well, they have the right to use this natural resource, as they use the land in their own territory, as well as water. It must be an incentive for the state and the authorities, which is why this bill is important. Thank you all again. Although the mandatory circles were run by everyone in the government's solid criticism, when it got past that, it supported the proposal itself from then on. I trust that this will also be the case in the vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-23-199	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your answers. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft bill between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the publication of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the amendment of the agreement on cooperation in the fight against cross-border crime will follow. The government referral is T/4020. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, Deputy Minister, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2023-05-23-200	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In 2009, Hungary and Croatia concluded a bilateral agreement on cooperation in the fight against cross-border crime. Croatia has joined the Schengen area as of 1 January 2023, making it even more important to take joint action and to engage effectively in the fight against cross-border crime. This bill proposes an amendment to the agreement currently in force to this House. The amendment extends the possibility of hot-tracking criminals who have withdrawn themselves from police control within 30 kilometres of the state border. It is also an important change that the persecution will now continue across land, water and air borders. Under the agreement currently in force, the law enforcement authorities in the two countries can carry out joint patrols within 10 kilometres of the common state border. As regards the protection of public order and more effective action against criminal offences, practice has shown that the abolition of a 10-km long distance restriction has been justified. The amendment also provides for the possibility of screening clothing and package for safety reasons in the future during the joint patrol service. In addition to the above, the rules on the exchange of information will be updated. The changes envisaged in this House's proposal will therefore make hot-tracking more effective, abolishing the 10-kilometer long-distance limit for common border patrol, and the rules for the exchange of information in line with the relevant EU legislation. I trust that this brief presentation has convinced you that the amendment is for the right purposes and that it is very timely to conclude it. With all due respect, I would ask you to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-23-201	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your presentation. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Font Sándor, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-05-23-202	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, An agreement on cooperation in the fight against cross-border crime was established between Hungary and Croatia in October 2008. In the 15 years since then, we have had a number of international and European Union obligations which made it necessary to amend the agreement. We can say that these steps will enhance and deepen cooperation between police services and other law enforcement authorities. Our main objective is, of course, our common security. I would like to highlight the provisions of the bill on combating illegal migration. It is noted that the parties' law enforcement bodies will establish a common patrol service on their border areas to better prevent and detect illegal migration, protect public order and combat crime. In addition, the amendments allow the continuation of cross-border hot-tracking and bring information on offenders and suspects into line with EU law. [[20.30]] This year almost 49 thousand border offenders and 387 smugglers have been apprehended in Hungary. You can see that our southern border is under considerable pressure. It is therefore extremely important that Hungary cooperates with all countries that help to control national borders and internal security borders. Like this bill, our cooperation has been established with several of our neighbours, so what we know we will do together for our own safety and security in Europe. We are looking forward to a change in the position of the European Union, because, unfortunately, we are experiencing a significant lag both in terms of legal support and on the financing side. Finally, the Fidesz parliamentary group naturally supports this bill and we also propose to the other Members that they accept it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-05-23-203	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2023-05-23-204	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. With no one's patience, I would like to make a very brief presentation of KDNP's position. Croatia joined the Schengen area on 1 January 2023. This represents a changed legal environment and therefore an amendment to the fight against cross-border crime is necessary. I would like to highlight two things. The possibility of cross-border hot-tracking is enhanced. It will be possible to do so in several cases, since the amending agreement will extend its scope to cases where a criminal withdraws from police control or does not comply with a police order calling for a stop and thus endangers public safety. In addition, this persecution may continue through land, air and water borders. The other major amendment, and I will conclude by saying that the territorial scope of the common border patrol will be further extended, as, based on practical experience, this amending agreement will remove the 10 km long-distance limit previously established, and therefore, in the future, these common patrol services will not only be able to be reached within 10 km of the state border. It also provides an opportunity for joint patrol to scan clothing and package for safety reasons. KDNP supports the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-05-23-205	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Since no one has applied for a two-minute speech, I would like to ask that someone else apply for a further speech. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Deputy Minister, if you'd like to answer. [[Bence Rétvári: Yes.]] You have the floor.
u2023-05-23-206	Thank you very much. I would like to respond briefly to the short debate. Thank you very much, everyone, who has spoken and supported this proposal. I believe that if the factions whose representatives had not spoken against the proposal, they would have certainly said in Parliament why they were against it. I think it is extremely important for Hungary that we are the 13th safest country in the world. Today, criminals are unfortunately organised into international networks, and this has been further promoted by illegal migration. Illegal migration capitalizes the organised underworld from Asia, say from the Middle East to North Africa to Europe as these routes come. It is therefore particularly important to combat international crime, to prevent any cross-border crime or to catch perpetrators. This is why it is important that Hungary has good cooperation with law enforcement authorities in all neighbouring countries, good cooperation in the exchange of experience or even in the implementation of joint actions. That is why we have achieved that we have truly become one of Europe's safest and the 13th most secure countries in the world. This agreement also serves this purpose. Thank you all very much for your supportive attitude. Thank you. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-05-23-207	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's agenda. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. I give the floor to Congressman János Bencze, Jobbik Group: What is happening here? It's an address. Here you go.
u2023-05-23-208	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Here we have already started the debate on how the Hungarian land prices stand, what happens to the Hungarian land is called the Hungarian land, and what this means for the Hungarian countryside. What kind of thing is it that, as I said, in Tolna County, in my narrower Patria, near Simontornya, it would be possible to buy an acre of good land and agricultural land for 1 million 400 thousand forints, according to the government's intention, which will cost a square meter of new-built apartments in Budapest? It's a lot, but it's not helping us, and once again, I respectfully ask the government to abolish this provision, to sit down with farmers and to set a realistic price for the land that will help decent farming, eliminate speculation and put things right. The Hungarian countryside has only one breakout point: this is the processing industry based on Hungarian agricultural products, a manufacturing plant that provides jobs in the area where people live. We've mentioned it several times, but I'll tell you again, it means that every 30 kilometers, small industrial centers have to be set up. There is a very, very simple reason for this: people can easily get within 30 kilometers of human time, there is time for family, there is time to raise children, and it also encourages children. There are many times here in Parliament how much support has been given to families to have children, but it is safe to say that this does not work in a good part of the Hungarian countryside. Why it doesn't work, and you understand it, you should go to the countryside, and I recommend to the fellow Members of the Fidesz group and listen to the people. It is necessary to visit rural settlements where there is no industry on the ground. What happens in a settlement like this, how a young person's life takes place? As they say, the lucky ones, the people living in optimal conditions, who live 60-70 kilometers away from an industrial center, get up at 3:30 a.m., collect themselves, go down to the workers' station, crash into the company, pick up the people who want to work in every settlement on the way, and then start working at 6:00 a.m. When the shift is completed, these working people, men, women, young people, elderly people, get back on the bus again, and in good case they are at home at 4 hours. Basically, their day is gone, so they don't have a chance to do anything at home, because if you're having a baby, there's the kid, there's a little garden around the house, but in case they're just cooking and resting. So it's easy to understand that in the country, by getting up at 3:30 a.m., I get on the morning flight, I go to work, I can't keep livestock. Every farmer knows that. I mean, I'm gonna be home tired at 4:00 or 4:30, and let's face it, no one wants to do a garden anymore. This is why industrial multinationals are not good, and therefore industrial centres that eviscerate workers are not good, which is why people should go from 30 kilometers away. Access to a half-hour job would bring benefits that families could be together, that they could have children, that there would be a vision of the future and that Jobbik-Conservatives would categorically state that this is the only way for the Hungarian countryside. This is only possible if, in the last 33 years, the agricultural and rural interest interests, which can be safely stated, have only flashed for a while in Hungary during the 2004 2005 farmers' awards, and, for some reason, it has been re-established very soon after 2010. We need to get him on his feet and stand up for the rural people, stand up for the people living in small settlements, because without this there is no Hungarian future, without it we have no remaining in the Carpathian Basin, we will simply be lost in the flood of migrant workers. We will be lost in the flood of migrant workers because the countryside is decaying, people are leaving, young people are moving into the workplace, but the migrant workers will not stay in Hungary either, hopefully, and so the Hungarian countryside, as the processes appear, will be completely eliminated. If you don't believe that, I'd be happy to invite you to Tolna County, Somogy, but also to some part of Bács-Kiskun, you can walk through the settlements, you can walk through the houses, you can knock on the door, you can talk, you're mostly older, you're middle-aged, you're over 50, you're missing our young, you're lost. And anyone who tries to buy real estate from the wages of industrial production in the city is, in essence, condemned to eternal slavery and has no intention of raising children. Thank you very much. [[David Dócs applauds.]] [[20.40]]
u2023-05-23-209	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Dávid Dócs, Member of the Hungarian Parliament, also spoke after the agenda, with the title of "Active Public Affairs." You have the floor.
u2023-05-23-210	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, I would like to bring to Parliament another example or problem that makes it increasingly difficult to stay in the countryside. Unfortunately, health care is very weak in Hungary in all areas, and its shortcomings are increasingly burning. Since 2014, the number of GPs and GPs in the county of Nógrád has started to decline dramatically in my smaller country, Nógrád. While 105 of our county's doctors were present in 2014, this number decreased to 83 persons by 2021, and their age presents us with a further problem to solve. GPs are getting old, and for now, it looks like they're barely gonna have any supplies. With these data, Nógrád Várgye is by far the least and oldest generalist, because one of the main causes of the decline is the ageing of the profession, which affects not only my narrower country, but Hungary as a whole. According to last year's data, there are no general practitioners in 680 GP practice in half a thousand settlements in the country, more than 10 percent of all practices, since there are 6500 jobs in this profession. Unfortunately, one of the outstanding examples of my county, Endrefalva, was also included in the national news reports with the echo that in this village of 1200 inhabitants the general medical practice has not been filled for more than seven years. Besides, Nógrád is the smallest county, its population is no longer equal to a city the size of Debrecen. The worst part is the infrastructure network, which is the lowest, except for one or two counties. There is no higher education here, because of which there is the least number of intellectuals here, or we do not have a single meter of motorways, there is no direct train transport and contact with the capital, even though we are a neighbouring county, but even the basic services are at risk, which further reduce the population retention effect of the county. The strengthening of basic care is a key issue for our country, as for patients this access is the most basic health control and care condition, as problems detected and managed at the time can prevent a number of later difficulties, not to mention the most rewarding health method, in terms of social and public budget, of prevention. We also consider it essential to strengthen the profession at this level, because, as I said, this is the most economical level of care, so that we can relieve the budget of the bulk of more expensive institutional treatments in addition to specialists. Our country's aim is to make the healthcare system available to the vast majority of society in the future, in addition to its continuous comprehensive improvement, because a sick society cannot be built on a country's future. They were also pleased with the calls for a medical service apartment, a medical device, and the renewal of the offices, but they are useless if there is no one to fill the service apartments, empty practices, and there is no one to use these newly purchased devices. We live in an increasingly sicker society, not only mentally but also medically, even though all our countrymen, including the people of Nógrád, deserve to have access to effective and high-quality health care, to all three levels, as basic care should be available everywhere in the small settlements, and proper and effective professional care and hospital care at the district level. This is not only a social and economic interest, but also a human duty. Finally, in my narrower Patria, unfortunately, new meaning is gained by the saying that health is a rare treasure, unfortunately for us in Nógrád, it is indeed getting rarer. It is absolutely necessary to change that. Thank you very much for the floor. [[János Bencze applauds.]]
u2023-05-23-211	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Meeting day's closed. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m.
