u2023-06-14-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning. Dear House, The 26th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be attending the meeting with notaries Bernadett Bakos and Béla Mihálffy. I welcome all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, The general debate on the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2024 follows. The bill is T/4181. and the opinion of the State Audit Office T/4181/1. can be found on the website. I would like to inform you that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, I would like to remind you that the Parliament has decided to negotiate the proposal within a 30-hour timeframe. The agenda recommendation shall be appended to the allocation of timeframes. I would like to ask Mr Béla Mihálffy to explain the distribution of the time frame of the factions available today.
u2023-06-14-1	Dear Parliament, The 15-hour timeframe available today is divided into 306 minutes for the Fidesz Group; 144 minutes for the KDNP Group; 86 minutes for the DK Group [[Nacsa Lawrence: Many!]] ; 68 minutes for the Momentum Group; 68 minutes for the MSZP Group; 61 minutes for the Jobbik Group; 53 minutes for the Group of Hungary; 53 minutes for the Dialogue Group; 50 minutes for the LMP Group; 11 minutes for the independent Members. I would like to inform you that the unused time frame for negotiations available on each sitting cannot be carried over to the next day.
u2023-06-14-2	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, The opening speech, the speech by the President of the State Audit Office and the President of the Board of Budgets, and the speeches by keynote speakers and representatives took place at the beginning of the general debate yesterday. The further speeches will now take place in the time frame available for today. András Tállai, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, came out of line, and I give him the floor first.
u2023-06-14-3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, For more than a year now, the war in our neighbourhood and the negative consequences of sanctions in Brussels have hit the economic and social processes of Europe and Hungary. In the current situation, the possibility of a prolonged war must be taken into account, so it is particularly important that all the results that we have achieved in recent years must be protected. Of course, full physical and economic security would be guaranteed for Hungary if there was a ceasefire and peace as soon as possible. Dear House, With regard to the macroeconomic aspects of the budget for 2024, it is worth looking back for the first time over the past period. Thanks to the economic policy implemented in the 2010s, the Hungarian economy was on a sustainable path to growth, at the same time forming solid foundations for critical periods such as the pandemic or the crises caused by the war. Between 2014 and 2019 the Hungarian economy increased by 4.1 percent on average, while the average growth of the Union was 2.1 percent at the same time. Public finances were in a balanced position, and public debt declined steadily and continuously from 80 per cent to 65 per cent. Employment and investment have increased significantly. The crisis caused by the pandemic broke the upward trend of the 2010s, from which the Hungarian economy recovered among the first, thanks to the government's economic protection measures. In 2020, the volume of Hungarian GDP decreased by less than the EU average, and in the following year our country achieved a record increase of 7.2 percent. This momentum, which continued in early 2022, was curbed by the outbreak of war, by the misguided sanctions and by the energy crisis that culminated last summer and by the accelerated inflation. The Hungarian economy is heavily dependent on energy imports, so the war in Ukraine, the sanctions in Brussels and the rising energy prices have put extreme pressure on Hungary. The sanctioned energy crisis and the resulting strong inflationary pressure also affected the Hungarian economy, Hungarian families and economic activity itself. In addition, there was a great deal of pressure on the state register. Despite the extraordinary challenges, Hungary achieved a 4.6 percent economic expansion in 2022, exceeding the European Union's average annual growth rate by 1.1 percentage points, and thus continued to catch up to the EU average in a particularly difficult year. Hungary's relative development has increased to 78 percent of the EU average in the last year, thus keeping Romania and Portugal ahead of the EU ranking 20th. With regard to Hungary's economic catch-up, it is also important to stress that we have achieved strong GDP growth over the last two years, despite the fact that we still have not received EU funds from our country for political reasons. This has led to a significant competitive disadvantage for us. [[8.10]] Despite the temporary economic slowdown, which can primarily be attributed to sanctioned inflation, previous results have been protected. The Hungarian economy has proved to be crisis-resistant, thanks to the government's measures and the ability of economic operators to adapt well. Investment and consumption were the driving forces of growth in 2022, and exports also helped increase GDP. The highest Hungarian investment rate of 28.4 percent in the European comparison is due on the one hand to the large volume of corporate developments and on the other hand to the extended support for home creation and home renovation. The recovery in consumption has been supported by measures taken to preserve the purchasing power of pensions, the recovery of the 13th month pension taken by the left, pension correction, personal income tax reimbursement for families with children, further reduction of labour taxes, a significant increase in the minimum wage and public sector wage arrangements. In addition, maintaining the reduction in overhead costs up to average consumption was a major expenditure savings for households, with which the Hungarian government provides the European Union's lowest energy costs for its customers. At the same time, the transformation of the system also encourages consumers to achieve significant energy savings. In order to maintain the competitiveness of the corporate sector despite the multiple energy charges caused by the sanctioned energy crisis, the Hungarian government decided to provide targeted support to the corporate sector. In addition to aid to increase energy cost compensation and energy efficiency, State-supported guarantee and loan schemes have been published and interest freezes have been extended to SMEs' loans. Measures taken to counterbalance the negative effects of war and sanctions, to protect households, companies and public institutions, have required substantial resources from the budget over the past year. Extraprofessors and disciplined, economical farming play a key role in bearing extra burdens. In 2022, the budget deficit represented 6.2 percent of GDP, an improvement of 0.9 percentage points compared to 2021. Government debt decreased to 73,3% of gross domestic product at the end of last year, which is a better value than the EU average. The Hungarian government is committed to further reducing the government deficit and public debt, so this year the general government deficit can be 3.9 percent, and the government intends to reduce the government's government debt below 70 percent of gross domestic product. Dear House, The economic slowdown started in the second half of 2022 as a result of the energy crisis and inflation with sanctions, which continued this year. The decline in retail consumption and investment has slowed down the performance of the economy, but the increase in exports has partly offset the same. At the same time, the normalisation of agricultural production and the expansion of services supported growth. However, the economic slowdown is not reflected in labour market developments. The unemployment rate remains one of the lowest in the European Union. The employment rate has reached record heights in recent years, making Hungary one of the best performing countries in the EU. According to the latest data in April, the employment rate was 74,6 percent and the unemployment rate was below 4 percent. Labour market reserves have been activated in recent years, and the employment of typically less mobile groups, such as women, young people and older people, has increased significantly thanks to targeted employment programmes and tax reduction measures. In the case of the corporate sector, the recently announced large-scale investment projects stimulate investment activity. The major corporate developments announced since the beginning of 2020 exceed HUF 9600 billion, which amounts to around 14 percent of the annual GDP. This performance proves that our country remains a country of outstanding capital attraction. Over the medium term, the extra capacity generated by these investments increases Hungary's export performance by HUF 27 000 to HUF 46 000 billion annually, representing between 50 and 80 percent of the current annual Hungarian exports. All in all, in the coming years, only these investments could generate an overall surplus of 14-19 percentage points of GDP. The arrival and use of EU funds can also make a major contribution to keeping the current high investment rate above 28 per cent. Dear Parliament, The government is constantly working to break down inflation, which will further accelerate this process in the second half of the year. As promised, sanctioning inflation will be reduced to one-digit by the end of the year. This has a positive impact on the purchasing power of households, so that consumption can recover again in the second half of the year as real income increases. In view of the external factors, it is positive that world market prices for raw materials and energy have started to decline and we hope that they can remain at a low level in the future and that world trade can also be expected to recover. In recent years, the development of manufacturing capacities further strengthens manufacturing exports and further improvements in service exports can be expected. [[8.20]] International freight transport and the recovery of international tourism can ensure continued expansion of exports. A significant increase in net exports could increase GDP by 1.5 percent this year. The further reduction of the barriers to production, as well as the reduction of sanctioned inflation, will lead to a renewed dynamic path in Hungary in 2024. The government is determined to break inflation to one digit by the end of this year. In 2024 the rate of increase in prices could be 6 per cent, which could lead to a renewed increase in real wages, thus also likely to increase household consumption. Based on the above, next year's budget proposal will see GDP growth of 4 per cent, inflation of 6 per cent and deficit target of 2.9 per cent for 2024. In addition, the government's primary objective is to further reduce the debt ratio: we will reduce the government debt to 69,7 per cent of GDP last year and 66,7 per cent of gross domestic product next year. Next year's deficit target has been set by the government to ensure that the budget can be financed and the deficit reduced, while at the same time providing funds to sustain economic growth, support for families, pensioners and businesses and investment. It is important to emphasise that the country's protection will be further strengthened. The Hungarian Defence Fund, which creates the sources of further defence development and strengthens the physical security of our country, expects nearly HUF 1310 billion in expenditure. At the same time, defence spending exceeds 2 percent of GDP. In addition, we will maintain the premium scheme. The Hungarian families pay the cheapest energy prices in the European Union, even in the midst of the increase in energy prices with sanctions, thanks to the measures that have been maintained since 2013. The Renewal Fund exceeds HUF 1360 billion in 2024, which is largely funded by extra-profit donors. Maintaining a crisis-resistant economy, job protection and employment is also a priority. The budget provides a predictable and predictable basis for maintaining stability in the country and maintaining economic growth. At the same time, we cannot be too careful in an unstable global environment, which is why the budget of 2024 has a central reserve of HUF 220 billion. We also ensure the protection of families and pensions in times of war. The government prioritises the support of Hungarian families, childbearing and child rearing. In addition, the benefits of the family tax system will continue to be guaranteed. In one of Europe's most favourable family support systems, there is more than three and a half times more for families than in 2010. The combined sum of family policy spending and tax incentives exceeds HUF 3300 billion. The protection of pensioners is important in the war situation, and it is also guaranteed. The increase in inflation-following pensions remains, the 13th month pension fully rebuilt and increased in 2022 and, if economic growth permits, the pension premium may also be paid. The amount of budgetary resources available for pensions and pensions increases to more than HUF 6540 billion, which is the largest item of the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the government, I would also ask the Parliament to discuss the draft budget for 2024, where it should be amended, and finally adopt it. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-14-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The further speeches will now take place in the time frame available for today. First I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing, first István Németh Szilárd, representative of Fidesz.
u2023-06-14-5	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I am particularly honoured, but I believe that it is about the subject, the reduction of the rent and the protection of the rent that I can speak here today as the first Member in this House in relation to our budget for next year. There is an ever-increasing war involving the danger of expansion, a brutal killing in our neighbourhood, and Europe's interests are in stark contrast to the interests of the continent, a very serious American influence is sweeping through unpredictable war psychosis and penaltyd, embargoed nonsense. In short, we live in a dangerous age of war. We must protect the safety of our country and of the Hungarian people. The budget for next year is planned for this. It can be said that the country's budget for 2024 is a defence budget. Its focus is to strengthen defence and public security, and therefore we need to fill two very important and emphasised budgetary resources, the Defence and Renewal Funds, to the extent necessary and sufficient. I'd like to be supportive of the latter. With the support of the Parliament, the Fidesz-KDNP faction, but with the complete rejection of the left, the government has already established the Rezségvédelmi Fund in this year's budget. Recent Eurostat data continue to support the fact that thanks to the policy of reducing the costs, we Hungarians can buy household energy at the cheapest prices throughout the European Union. It is possible to maintain this on an ongoing basis by the Retirement Fund. The purpose and function of the Rezségvédelmi Fund is to protect Hungarian families, businesses, state, municipal and religious institutions from energy prices that have been unleashed by war and sanctions in Brussels. Dear Parliament, Let us therefore also consider what was happening before the introduction of the policy of reducing costs. This is important because it doesn't matter where this process started and where we are now. During the years since 2013, the reduction of the rent introduced on 1 January 2013 continued to expand and transform, but its original goal was also to protect Hungarian families, Hungarian people, and to eliminate the blasphemous state in which left-wing governments pushed them between 2002 and 2010. It is also worth remembering that between 1994 and 1998 the Horn government sold virtually every energy service company cheaply to Western companies. The Gyurcsánys continued the sale and allowed the foreign multinationals to profit from the Hungarian families. Between 2002 and 2010, the price of gas supplied to households increased by 206 percent to three times the price and electricity by 97 percent to twice that price. During the eight years of left-wing governments, there was a series of austerity. The price of the two main energy carriers was increased 15 times, which led to the fact that a significant proportion of Hungarian households were forced into a long-term yellow check debt. The sum of this was HUF 52 billion at the start of the reduction, so ten years ago. In addition, the left-wing government has taken such a nasty attitude that they have spread about Hungarian people that they do not want to pay, while the Hungarian people are using up energy, but do not want to pay for it. Of course, there were settlements where people could not pay because of their difficult circumstances, but they were burdened further, and then the deficits caused by the amounts they did not pay were replaced by the burden on other Hungarian consumers for the benefit of Western service providers. [[8.30]] During the Gyurcsány-Bajnai era, this Hungarian Energy Office, the predecessor of today's Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, did nothing against unfair and disproportionate price increases, and even allowed these amounts to be included in the prices, so once again I stress that there was a 15-time price increase in 8 years. The Gyurcsánys have put everything, this excessive increase, in the neck of Hungarian families. In fact, Bajnai even took social gas subsidies from the poorest, the most needy, in exchange for the IMF loan. It is also important to note that over this period, cumulative inflation was 58 percent, so the left above inflation and the inflation increased the costs of domestic electricity and gas to many times over. We knew of many, many families where between 35 and 40 percent of the monthly living costs were spent on energy bills during socialist governments. According to the latest Eurostat data, currently only 2.5 percent of its income is spent on electricity and gas consumption by a two-seek Hungarian family, a Hungarian household. This is the second most favourable figure in the European Union, but only the rich Luxembourg is a little ahead of us. So that's where the Fidesz government had to put an end to this hopeless situation, and we took the two-thirds authority from the people. Since then, Hungarian families have received the necessary household energy safely and affordable, the cheapest in the European Union. So we did the reduction in the overhead so that there would be no disruption in the supply of gas, electricity or district heating, even though the bureaucracy in Brussels, under the influence of business, ideology and politics, and the domestic left serving foreign interests, were constantly trying to discredit and eliminate the cost reduction in its entirety. In two years, however, we have made it to the point that in the other public services we have also introduced the reduction of the rent, in the case of water, sewers, chimney sweeps and bottlers, tankers and village and PB gas, and in addition, during the mayorship of István Tarlós we have also reduced the price of BKV passes by 10 percent in Budapest. And the new two-thirds mandate sends a message to everyone, Brussels and the unscrupulous Hungarian left, that we must protect the results of the reduction, and we must maintain it for the safety of Hungarian families. This is precisely the purpose of our budget for 2024's Trust Fund. Dear Parliament, Now let's look at some of the issues of the future Trust Fund. I need glasses to see it. [[Laszlo Varju: Yes! Because lies... László Szászfalvi: You don't have to talk nonsense!]] The total upload of the Rezségvédelmi Fund is HUF 1361 billion; the spending of this is planned as follows. Planning this year is very important, as the Secretary of State and Minister said yesterday, because this is what the war, the prolonged, unpredictable war environment demands of us. The government set 917 billion forints for retail security. I would like to tell everyone what this is about: up to the average consumption of gas, this is 1729 cubic metres per year and 2523 kilowatts per year for electricity. Each Hungarian family receives energy in the public domain, and this means that every Hungarian family will be left with HUF 181 thousand per month as a result of the reduction of the rent, so the government will protect every Hungarian family from the market prices that have been released. In addition, there are other discounts in this 917 billion. Let me remind everyone that the costs of district heating, district heating will not change either last year, this year or next year, so this includes support for so-called district heating providers, so that people living in residential areas continue to get their district heating at a low price. The explanation for this is that, let alone, they are not sometimes separated from each apartment, each beach, with an extra hour, a single hour of consumption. Personally, there's practically no control over saving. The residential hat also includes support for large families; this is old, but this year, with gas prices being released, it has become a fully accelerated process. Now we are talking about the three or more children in large families, with over 60 000 children participating, 60 thousand large families participating in this program, which means that the average consumption is extended by 600 cubic metres from the third child and by four, fifth, sixth, seventh and other 300 cubic metres from each child. This is of great importance, a family with three children can save between 550 and 600 thousand forints a year with this gas price reduction. We also felt that when family homes were designed by people, they were designed to create consumer communities. This is his professional name, of course, but families, grandpa, grandma and brothers live together, several generations live together, and therefore we also gave two or three or four families living together a discount, two or three or four times more benefits; this means 75 thousand families. In addition, all apartments in condos and cooperatives, and this includes municipal-owned apartments, so where more people live together 10, 20, 60, 120, 240, there are numbers there, 10, 20, 60 times, 240 times more consumption, because there is only one hour, and based on the one hour we calculate this. And we also help those who are forced to use, say, electrical medical aids throughout their lives: they get an incredible discount on electricity. They have more consumption than average consumption; this affects more than 7,000 of our countrymen. There is another large part, the compensation of central budgetary bodies: this means, in addition to government bodies, of course, health, education and social bodies. I would like to thank them here because they started saving on themselves when the energy price broke in Europe. During this winter, people worked in offices of virtually 18 degrees; the heating of the classrooms was 20 degrees. They understood this, despite being pissed off, teased, but they understood this, and in an extraordinary way they were able not only to reduce costs, but also practically to use energy, so once again I would like to thank them here. By the way, there are now 208 billion in next year's budget set aside. Or here's the support of local governments. We remember that at the end of last year, the government distributed huge money, nearly HUF 50 billion to local government support and energy support. For example, I can only report that in my constituency, Csepel, this meant nearly HUF 800 million in support to the municipality. With this money, the municipality can also finance tasks that are not mandatory, but are very important, for example, the renovation of the Eötvös school; thanks to the government. Now this program will continue in the Rehabilitation Fund. But I would also like to say that the churches and the civil institutions have received this support; even the parishes and the priest's houses have been included in the scope of universal service, so they receive energy at a reduced rate. [[8.40]] In addition, state-owned companies have access to job preservation and energy development for 50 billion forints, the previous two amounted to 83 and 66 billion forints of this cash register and 37.5 billion forints for the support of the competition sector, the Hungarian micro and small enterprises and private entrepreneurs. I would like to point out two things here, one of which is that they belong to the MVM group from May onwards, as a market participant, the MVM group has undertaken to cut the fixed cost of the changer by half in the service of these companies, and this represents about 14 thousand businesses. In another 17,000 companies, the government provided very big help in electricity consumption, because it dropped the price of 165 HUF to 70 HUF, practically to the level of the preferential domestic market price. So this is how 1361 billion forints are put together, and in 2024 the program that we launched last year with the Rezségvédőség Fund must and will continue in any way and will continue. And let me just one more thing in this House to draw your attention to the fact that in these times of war and sanctions, the most important task is to ensure affordable prices, which I have just talked about, to guarantee security of supply. The budget for 2024 provides adequate cover for the purchase of the most important energy sources, the availability of a protected state gas reserve by 1.5 times this year and the smooth operation of the district heating service, as I have already pointed out. Well, Honourable Parliament, the 2024 Rezségvédelmi Fund will also base the protection of the reduction of the rent, the security of Hungarian families and the functioning of the country next year. The Emergency Fund guarantees security of energy supply and affordable prices at the same time. I would ask my fellow Members to support and vote in favour of Hungary's 2024 defence budget in this respect. This is in the interests of Hungarians, we continue to stand by Hungary, Hungary is the first for us. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-06-14-6	Thank you very much, Mr Szilárd Németh. A representative of DK, Ferenc Dávid, will now speak. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-06-14-7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Given the limited time available to me, I would not start a comprehensive budget analysis, but some of those [[Nacsa Lawrence: 86 minutes!]] I would like to draw attention to the fact that this obviously affects the views of the Democratic Coalition on the draft budget law. One is the signal structure that I can use to describe this budget: premature, timeless and unfounded. This claim should be clearly justified and justified. If you recall last year, in the summer of last year we adopted the budget for the year 23, if you recall, economic growth was calibrated to 4.1 percent, inflation to 5.2. This is not on a thank-you basis with the 1.5 per cent economic growth and 15 per cent inflation as defined later. And if we go on and look at the current period, even 1.5 percent is not true, according to moderate economic forecasts this year, if we are lucky, there will be a positive, zero, but rather 0.6-7 percent increase, and inflation will certainly not stop at 15 percent. Don't get me wrong, there's no problem with the financial government planning, setting up different alternatives, but there is a problem with putting this into law in the middle of the summer, and then it turns out that not a word of it is true. There's no record of the 22nd year, there's no record of the 23rd year process, and on this sand, you're building a budget for the year 24th. One wonders why Fidesz has been pushing budget acceptance in the middle of summer for nine years. I have come to the conclusion that, on the one hand, they want to create an illusion of stability, it is not certain that this is true, no one believes the reality of these words anymore, the other may adopt a budget, they are consecrated with Parliament, and then, on the other hand, they start poking around in it with the girds of government decrees referring to this emergency, making it so that it does not become transparent. This budget also seems unstable because you do not talk about what is happening in Hungary in the first 5-6 months of the year. As much as it is attractive to say, Prime Minister, when you say that inflation should be broken down like corn, that sounds good, by the way, but the fact is that the year/year is still over 20 percent, so may/May inflation. We are well aware that retail sales decreased by 12 percent, industrial production decreased by 8 percent, real earnings fell by 7 percent. This economic depression, this recession, is being answered by the government with a defense budget. Well, the thing is, in this budget, we need a kind of approach, a kind of approach that's gonna get this country out of this economic depression situation. That is why we are saying that this is a timid, narrow-minded and unpopular budget estimate. Another issue is the revenue side of the budget. I would like to stress that you say in many, many places that I do not want to lead a country of tax charges, not tax cuts. My dear colleagues have collected a series of taxes that you have smuggled back into the Hungarian tax system since April 2022. We, by the way, call it the return of sly taxes in an entrepreneurial circle, by slowly smuggling everything back to increase the tax burden. But just so it's not that I told you again that there are tax returns, I'm telling you, my colleagues have been gathered for me. I am also surprised that the banking sector, the insurance sector, the energy sector, retail, telecommunications, the airline, pharmaceutical companies, the reactivation of advertising tax, the increase in taxes on seasonal work, the extra-profit tax on pharmaceutical companies, the taxation of petroleum producers; I do not think so, there are 19 of them, which you have brought back as a sectoral special tax, thereby breaking all the rules of normism, but this could be accepted temporarily. But you have also made this standardized in your budget for,"24." In the long run, we have to live with these taxes. Now, with these taxes, I understand that businesses want to push the budget's hunger, it's just that, as cynical as it may sound from my mouth, I'm not cynical about these businesses that I've listed, they're not social institutions, they're going to cost their burden, their tax burden. Not all of them have done so, so far they have said that it can be pulled out temporarily. But once they see these taxes become permanent, these taxes will be built on, and from then on, inflation predictions will be false. inflation will not be able to stop at 6 percent, although, frankly, I would be very happy if inflation could indeed be 6 percent. But unfortunately, these measures, I have to say, and once again to be very strict, this budget hunger has now fallen into the wrong street, that what is not embedded brings everything into the budget, and does not take into account that these sectors, of course, must be involved in sharing the burden, in this, I suppose, there is no debate between us, but there is no need to kneel them. They do not need to be put in a position where they are virtually masters of inflation-enhancing. I'd like to go on with what I think is extremely strange, and it's very time-consuming, so I'm gonna open it up a little bit in that respect... [[Nacsa Lawrence: 79 minutes!]] We don't have as much time as Fidesz-KDNP, that's the case, Congressman, which is why I have to say it so quickly. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I'll listen to it, I promise. Yesterday, we listened to Minister Mihály Varga calculate the EU's revenue in the budget. I think that was a fair, fair announcement. Well, if I hadn't read Márton Nagy's statement in the World Economy on 6 June, when he says that Hungary doesn't need it, that the money is not dominant, it doesn't matter in the financing of the Hungarian economy, Hungary will be in a position to become a net contributor. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It already is!]] Now I'd like to say it cynically, directly cynically: we are now net contributors, because the obligation must be fulfilled, the money will not arrive. I think that in Hungary, in this situation, the contradiction is that while the Minister of Finance is talking about the need for European Union funds, the Minister for Economic Development says that we can really do without it, the Hungarian economy is growing out. [[8.50]] I believe that, of course, I agree with Minister Varga's saying, and I express my incomprehensibility that, while the Minister for Economic Development resigns from these issues, Judit Varga and Tibor Navracsics are snooping around Europe and breaking the Minister's hand on television about where the EU funds are. To conclude, I would like to draw attention to one of the biggest problems that has not been mentioned here in the words of Minister and Secretary of State. However, we should remember the absence of the Hungarian National Bank: HUF 402 billion. This is obviously going to be the budget, and this has to be resolved somewhere in the budget. Minister Varga said something about this, that he would be smeared, but the budget was submitted by forgetting to write this 400 billion forint. The other thing that I think is very important is that you all remembered that this debt service, which is responsible for Hungary, should, of course, add the MNB's loss to this, but you did not say that while this amount was HUF 2600 billion in 23 years, it will increase by HUF 500 billion in 24 years. There will be huge funding problems for Hungary's budget for the year 24 and, consequently, the Democratic Coalition does not support this budget budget in its entirety or in its details. Thank you very much for your attention. [[László Varju and Miklós Hajnal applaud.]]
u2023-06-14-8	Thank you, Congressman Dávid Ferenc. Preliminary speaker Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party. You have the floor.
u2023-06-14-9	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Well, Congressman David, we would have liked to have listened to it. It is a pity that your group gave you so much time, that we would have listened to the slides that you said in your speech. But there are two things that I would like to respond to, Mr David, before I go to budgetary issues. One is that Congressman David said that there is a tax return or tax smuggling going on here. Well, Congressman, however I looked back in my memories and on the Internet, I don't remember you saying anything about the tax flood after 2006 when the Ferenc Gyurcsánys raised taxes every month. You are talking about tax smuggling here, but at that time it was a tax invasion, and as Secretary General VOSZ you did not raise your word against the fact that Ferenc Gyurcsány's taxes were constantly being raised and the companies were hit and the Hungarian workers were hit. The Member also spoke about EU funds in his speech. I don't know, you were sent a radio interview by Ferenc Gyurcsány at the end of March that it was you who prevented the arrival of EU money. So Ferenc Gyurcsány openly and honestly confessed that you are setting new conditions. He said that they were trying to establish a set of conditions in a legal gown. Well, you are in the Brussels courtrooms so that Hungary does not have access to the resources it rightly deserves. I do not know that you have been informed of this within the Democratic Coalition that you are the cause of this, and that you, together with Anna Donáth, Katalin Cseh, Attila Ara-Kovács, Sándor Rónai, István Ujhelyi, Márton Gyöngyösi, lead by Klára Dobrev, are trying to prevent these legitimate funds from reaching Hungarian teachers, Hungarian municipalities and Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. I would therefore like to suggest this to your attention here in relation to your speech. Here we stand next year, at the time of the 2024 budget, and the 2024 budget will be a budget for economic growth, inflation reduction, debt reduction, job preservation, family support, defence and security; a defence budget in the age of threats. The 2024 budget in the age of danger is a defence budget. The situation is difficult around us, we barely got out of a global pandemic, black clouds gathered on the skies of the European economy when a war started in our neighbourhood, Russia invaded Ukraine, and the European Union gave a wrong answer. The effects of the war, the recovery from the pandemic, the rapid rebound, inflation growth and the effects of the increase in energy prices and the effects of the war result in a difficult economic situation for Europe and Hungary as well. After all, if we look at the data of the Hungarian economy set on the growth path after 2010, we see that we have quickly recovered from the economic crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic, since in 2021 we achieved a record increase of 7.2 percent of GDP. However, it is undoubtedly a fact that last year, on 24 February 2022, the Russian-Ukrainian war broke out, and the European Union began to impose on Russia its misguided sanctions, which, even in the opinion of some MEPs, European journalists and economic analysts, were more hit by Europe than by the Russian economy targeted by sanctions, according to opinion leaders on the liberal side. These sanctions, war and energy prices have affected both the European and Hungarian economies. As a result of the devastating and terrible war that has continued since February 24 last year and the failed sanctions in Brussels, energy prices have skyrocketed throughout Europe. Inflation has reached decades of peaks in EU Member States. Unfortunately, the war and sanctions in Brussels have put our country in particular difficulties, given the fact that the war is in our immediate neighbourhood, and Hungary does not have a sea exit, a coast, and there are no major oil and gas fields in its territory. The Hungarian economy, therefore, needs to be imported from energy, the price of which has multiplied because of the misguided, unrealistic, ideological and yearning-driven sanctions in Brussels. I think it is a huge achievement in this extremely difficult situation that the Hungarian budget has been able to protect Hungarian people from rising energy prices and has managed to protect the achievements and results of the reduction of overhead. While due to war and sanctions, our country's energy bill increased by HUF 4000 billion from 2021 to 2022, the reduction of the rent represents HUF 181 thousand per month for every Hungarian family up to the average consumption. According to Eurostat's latest report, Hungarian families throughout the European Union continue to pay the lowest electricity and gas prices. This is a result, and I also recommend it to the attention of my fellow left-wing Members, which is not worth denying, something worth being proud of together, that we are not saying, Eurostat, that Hungarian households throughout Europe are paying the lowest electricity and gas prices. In such a time of danger and difficulties and crises, this is an important achievement that I think we should be proud of and do everything we can to preserve it. On the other hand, even in the era of rising energy prices, the left has been constantly attacking the reduction in overhead costs and demanding world market prices, let us not forget this. Ferenc Gyurcsány, the leader of the left, called the reduction of the rent stupid; according to Klára Dobrev, the reduction of the rent did not happen; and Jobbik called it a fraud of the century. Last year, when the war was already underway and energy prices had already gone, the left was campaigning for sanctions on as much energy as possible, for the abolition of the reduction in overhead costs and for world market prices. Péter Márki-Zay, the candidate for Prime Minister of the Left, called the reduction of the rent a lot of people, and your candidate for Prime Minister Miklós Hajnal and Ferenc Dávid campaigned to return to world market prices. That's what your Prime Minister's candidate said. By reading their programs, it is clear that last year you were planning to constantly raise taxes, and now in your speech the speaker of DK, Ferenc Dávid, was concerned about the extra profit of the banks, worried about the extra profit of pharmaceutical companies and airlines, thinking that we should stick to the banks for extra profit instead of helping Hungarian people. It's quite typical, carved DK, MSZP comment this. You have always put the profits of banks ahead of the interests of the Hungarian people. I don't think that's right. Let us also recall that the left was an enemy of affordable household energy prices during its governance. Between 2002-2010, the Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments doubled the price of electricity and tripled the price of gas, so Hungarians had to pay 1060 billion HUF more for their overhead costs, 1060 billion HUF is the amount you took out of people's pockets by raising their overhead. According to market price regulation before 2010, an average Hungarian family would spend approximately HUF 32 thousand more on rent in 2021 prices before the current energy crisis. This would add 386 thousand forints per year to an average Hungarian family. Now the same difference is not 32 thousand forints per month with rising energy prices compared to world market prices, but 181 thousand forints per month. That's what every Hungarian family saves by reducing the rent, and that's what would be lost if Klára Dobrev came to Hungary from the shadow of the shadows and the government that raised the rent from the shadows. [[9.00]] For this reason, one of the most important parts of the 2024 budget is the Rezief Protection Fund, which helps to pay the energy bills of families, state and municipal bodies, institutions and companies by more than HUF 1360 billion. Our aim is to help and protect Hungarian families and businesses from rising energy prices on the world market in the following year as well. The war right in our neighbourhood is also facing extremely serious security policy challenges. This new situation calls for a strong defence and therefore a priority is the continuation of the military development programme; this is also contrary to our efforts with the previous left-wing government. We can remember how, with the help and leadership of Ferenc Gyurcsány and Ágnes Vadai, the abilities of the Hungarian Army were reduced, the value of the metal in it, the abilities of the Hungarian Defence Forces, and how moral it was at that time within the framework of the defence, and how the Hungarian military and army were destroyed by the left-wing governments with the help of Ferenc Gyurcsány and Ágnes Valai. In order to strengthen our country, the Hungarian army, to meet security policy challenges, the Defence Fund is also a key part of the 2024 budget. The Defence Fund creates the opportunity for further improvements and strengthens the physical security of our country. The Hungarian Defence Fund's budget in 2024 amounts to HUF 1310 billion, while all defence expenditures will exceed 2% of GDP, thus meeting NATO's expectations. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members here to the fact that many NATO countries, which are much richer than Hungary, have not yet succeeded in achieving, for example, Luxembourg, Germany and so on, the two-percent defence expenditure, while Hungary will do so with this budget. We are the good allies of NATO, the Hungarian soldiers are spoken at the highest level in international missions, whether the commanders of the US or other armies, we are fulfilling our duties, and much sooner than the countries with a better history and wealth, we reach the NATO objective, the 2-percent defence expenditure. Our security is threatened not only by war, but also by migration threatening the Hungarian borders, we must strengthen the country's security. The economic crisis caused by the war can trigger further waves of migration to Europe, and this is reinforced by last week's decision in Brussels, which was actively involved in the decision of Katalin Cseh, Anna Donáth, Klára Dobrev, Csaba Molnár, Márton Gyöngyösi, István Újhelyi, to vote in favour of the mandatory quotas, to vote in favour of the distribution of people, to place huge penalties: to force the compulsory immigration quotas on us. Again, the Hungarian left was not on the side of the Hungarian people, as 98 percent of Hungarian people expressed their opinion against quotas in the referendum, whereas Anna Donáth, Katalin Cseh and the others voted for quotas over and over again, and they believe that Hungary should receive hundreds of billions of forints of penalties because it refuses to accept immigrants on the basis of the compulsory distribution quota. We do not make Hungary an immigrant country, we protect the safety of the Hungarian people even if the left does everything to ensure that this is not the case. What we can see is that Hungary has had to rely only on itself on the protection of borders. Our main goal remains to keep Hungary out of the war, not to let the Hungarian people pay the cost of the war, and to keep our borders safe. Defence spending is increasing more than eight times compared to 2010, so they are close to HUF 1800 billion. Law enforcement spending exceeds HUF 1300 billion, which represents a nearly threefold increase of HUF 860 billion compared to 2010, so defence expenditure, security and police expenditure are also multiples of the last left-wing budget in 2010. To further strengthen security, the government will spend nearly HUF 13880 billion on the wages of law enforcement and defence workers in 2024, which is HUF 900 billion higher than in 2010. Since 2010, wages in this area have increased nearly threefold. After a record growth of 7.2 per cent of GDP in 2021, the Hungarian economy continued to perform well in 2022 and expanded by 4.6 per cent, which is a performance better than the EU average by 1.1 percentage points. The prolonged war and the penalties that have failed this year have a negative impact on economic prospects, but our aim is to avoid economic downturn and growth, even at a more moderate rate, but to continue this year. The rate of growth is significantly higher than this year in 2024 and is expected to be 4 per cent, while in addition to the 4 per cent economic growth, we will continue to reduce public debt and budget deficits next year. The 2024 budget calculates a deficit-to-GDP deficit target of 2.9 per cent and a reduction in government debt to 66.7 per cent. Here, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that in 2006, when the years of abundance, when the world economy evolved, the Hungarian government deficit was the second largest in the world. Yesterday, at the beginning of the budget debate, Ferenc Gyurcsány came to work himself after many months, and said his generous speech. The fact, ladies and gentlemen, is that the former Prime Minister, Ferenc Gyurcsány DK, takes the liberty of criticizing the Hungarian budget, who, when he was Prime Minister, was a wealth of money, an improvement, in 2006, the second largest budget deficit in the world was brought together, only in the war-torned Lebanon, there was a higher budget deficit than in Hungary. Ferenc Gyurcsány came in here to lecture us, who was the most corrupt prime minister of all time. Ferenc Gyurcsány came in here to lecture us on budget lines, taxes, who became a billionaire with privatization and state aid and family help. Ferenc Gyurcsány came in here to lecture us on medical expenses, for whom 16,000 active beds were removed during his administration, and forints 3000 billion were withdrawn from the budget and 6,000 doctors were released. [[Laszlo Szászfalvi: That's right!]] [[Laszlo Szászfalvi: That's right!]] Ferenc Gyurcsány came here to lecture us, who closed 300 schools in the villages. (László Szászfalvi: That's right!) Ferenc Gyurcsány came here to lecture us on budgetary issues, who sold 192, mostly profitable public companies and privatized abroad to his friends: MÁV Cargo, airport, energy companies, and so on. In most cases, Ferenc Gyurcsány was privatized for pennies, forints and, of course, for comradeship, during the time of the Hungarian state, the companies producing profits for the budget. That Ferenc Gyurcsány came in here, my fellow Members, to lecture us on morality and budget, during which the budget figures were admitted to be falsified. How dare a man who falsifies budget figures while using his other hand to attack the peacefully celebrated Hungarian citizens to lecture us on the philosophy and moral depth of the budget? The one who falsified the budget figures! We witnessed a shameful speech here yesterday, honourable Members, who were sitting here in the Parliament during the speech of Ferenc Gyurcsány, as it has not been for a long time. There was a prime minister who destroyed the country, lied to the people, even lied to the bureaucrats in Brussels, who faked the budget figures, ordered a horse-riding and sword-swording against the Hungarian people, destroyed the health and education systems, drove the country into debt spirals, bankrupted the country, took away the 13th month pension, then came in and told us about the budget. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that Imre Steindl, who has built this house well, has not fallen on our heads here yesterday, while Ferenc Gyurcsány spoke in this Chamber. [[Laszlo Szászfalvi: That's right!]] The speech made here by the President of DK was shameful, another line, another episode in the line of his crimes, linked to his name. And the representatives of DK sat there, assisted, applauded, approved, while they knew it, and Ferenc Dávid was not in the government at the time, but he knows exactly what misdemeanors Ferenc Gyurcsány did to the Hungarian economy, what misdemeanour Ferenc Gyurcsány did with the Hungarian health issue when he introduced hospital daily allowances and visits when he wanted to introduce tuition fees when he closed schools when he destroyed the Hungarian budget and the Hungarian economy. You didn't say a word then, and then you signed with Ferenc Gyurcsány for a parliamentary mandate to justify what Ferenc Gyurcsány did before 2010. I find that shameful. Returning to the budgetary debate: in 2024 the public debt again falls, to 66,7 percent from 69,7 percent in 2023, and this figure would be even lower if there had not been a war and a war energy crisis. By 2010, the left took the government debt above 80 percent again in a very large quotation mark because of your blessed activity, and the fact is that I cannot miss out on the representatives of Momentum, Jobbik, Dialogue, MSZP; well, Miklós Hajnal started the election with a DK-based Gyurcsány logo. [[9.10]] Under the first logo was the DK logo of Ferenc Gyurcsány, on all the posters, across the Mountains and the II. in certain parts of the district, honourable Members. He thought that the right attitude was to march into Parliament with Ferenc Gyurcsány's logo, Ferenc Gyurcsány, and to believe that in 2022, in 2023, Ferenc Gyurcsány had committed his shameful crimes before 2010 with this nation and this country, which you now legitimize every day in Parliament when you are here, when you applaud him, when you join forces, when you take joint decisions, when you take part in joint political actions, all Ferenc Gyurcsány are legitimized. We remember how the government debt was increased while there was no development. Of course, the tiny villa was renovated, but other improvements were not very much made in the country while [[He's showing it with his hands.]] That's how the government debt grew, because you guys kept taking on debt to operate, to run the country, not to develop. That's what you guys did to the municipalities. You now appear to be the local authorities' saviors and are trying to worry about the municipalities, while what was before 2010? They constantly increased the tasks of the municipalities, but forgot to provide them with resources. This is why we came to the point that in 2011-12 we had to take over HUF 1400 billion of debt from the municipalities. You're the one who caused this. You put this weight on the shoulders of the municipalities. You have put 1,400 billion forints of debt on the municipalities because they have increased their responsibilities, they have forgotten to add funding. We have extended and this year we will maintain the residential interest stop protecting 350,000 families. We have extended and maintained this measure until interest falls. The interest rate stop was then extended to student loans, protecting 200,000 students from inflation. Both the training loan and the Student loan2 are interest-free, and the free-use student loan is half the market interest rate. We also reduced the cost of the bank's basic bank account to a third. From 1 May 2023 we introduced the reduced monthly rent for the county for 9450 HUF and the country rent for 18 900 HUF. From 1 July, these leases will be even more favourable, as we can travel on Intercity trains by changing seats. It is also an important novelty that, as of 1 July, city bus services operated by Volánbusz will be accepted at Zalaegerszeg in local community transport. With this, the county seat of Zalai will be the first settlement in Hungary, where the entire tariff community will be established. Congratulations to Zala County and Zalaegerszeg! New county and country passes offer a cheap and easy solution for more passengers than before to go to everyday work, to go to school and to live everyday life. Our priority in the difficult economic situation of failing sanctions in Brussels is also to maintain full employment and to protect one million new jobs that have been created since 2010. In 2010, during your governance, unemployment was 12%, and now the Fidesz-KDNP government is still doing its best to preserve jobs. Unemployment is now below 4 percent, a very important difference. We also extended the interest rate stop for Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. With this, we will help 60,000 businesses with a loan of HUF 2000 billion. We announced the Széchenyi card program, and we spend 290 billion forints this year. We have announced a moratorium on the repayment of agricultural loans in order to protect Hungarian farmers. We announced the factory rescue program and the factory rescue warranty and credit program. We use HUF 230 billion to support the energy efficiency of large companies. The MFB and Eximbank will also launch a 200 million loan programme for them. We announced a reindustrialization loan programme named after Gábor Baross, with a budget of HUF 700 billion. We have announced a tourist action plan, the development contribution does not have to be paid temporarily. We are also promoting a work support programme. We preserve jobs, the value of pensions, family support. This is how we deal with crises: development, job retention. You dealt with the crisis by reducing unemployment by 12 percent, by taking away the 13th month's wages from public administration and public service workers, by taking away the 13th month's pension, and you just took, took, and humiliated the Hungarian people. Being a parent in a family of many children meant being poor at the time, honourable Members. You took away the home-building programs, took away the family tax relief. Do you know, Congressman Dávid Ferenc, how many family tax breaks have been paid during the time of Ferenc Gyurcsány? Or does Miklós Dawn know how much family tax breaks have been paid? 12 billion. How much now? 980 billion. I think there's a difference. That's what families were destined for, 12 billion forints for tax relief, and now only the tax relief is 980 billion. I think it's kind of a big difference, which is also a fact, and something worth being proud of. In the coming years, and in the future, we believe that investment in increasing production capacities will be decisive, as well as technological improvements to improve efficiency, which play a prominent role in strengthening our country's growth potential. The National Christian Democratic Government also prioritises the support of Hungarian families, childbearing and child rearing in times of war and newer and newer migration flows, energy crises and political revenge in Brussels. In the middle of the war and energy crisis, the national Christian Democratic government is not following the policy of austerity and withdrawal regularly applied by the left, but has added another element to Europe's most extensive family support system with the beginning of this year: from January this year, the number of people who are exempt from personal income tax has expanded with mothers having children before the age of 30, which contributes to the increase in the annual net income of households with children as well as to the early birth of the first child. On the other hand, the left-wing family policy is practically exhausted in a single family allowance. Left-wing governments have abolished the housing discount, favourable forint-based loans, closed housing loans, Hungarian families have been driven into debt-slaving foreign currency loans. In 2009, the share of foreign exchange loans in the total population was over 70 percent and 1.5 million people were at risk of direct eviction. Next year, the government will spend HUF 185 billion to ensure that people under the age of 25 are free. This is also increasing compared to this year, this year 155 billion HUF is available. During the governance of the left, a young worker under the age of 25 received about 50% of his gross salary. Miklós Dawn often refers to young people. At the time of the left, a young person received 50 percent of his gross salary, but now everything under 25 is completely free of average wage. It's a big difference, isn't it? From the introduction of the family tax and contribution allowance in 2011 until now, the Hungarian families remained with HUF 4000 billion. The amount of support for children's meals continues to increase, which is more than HUF 105 billion. This, too, is the sum of 75 billion forints more than in 2010. The free textbook supply has become full from the 2020/21 academic year. The government will spend 16 billion forints on this in 2024 as well. With regard to free textbooks, it is also important to note that during left-wing governments, every school start was a huge expense for families. The price of a textbook package was about 30,000 forints, while the average demand was 110,000 forints. 30,000 forints is a textbook package, we were four brothers, honourable Member; 4 times 30,000 forints is 120,000 forints, while the average salary in your time was 110,000 forints. And then they hadn't bought a notebook, a pencil, a gym bag, or anything else. No wonder, under left-wing governments, having children meant a large part of families to commit poverty. Education spending exceeds HUF 3400 billion in 2024 which represents an increase of nearly HUF 2000 billion compared to 2010. Nearly 240 billion forints for higher education, public education and other branches of education have 400 billion forints more resources than in 2023. So in the years of the crisis, too, in the difficult years, we increase the budget for education, both for higher education and for public education, with no small amount of money. The budget of 2024 provides HUF 1600 billion for the salaries of education workers, which is double that of the last budget submitted by the left-wing government in 2010. I have already talked about EU funds. I would ask you to stop obstructing them and tell your outside friends of principle that it would be good for them to look at the interests of the Hungarian people once and not only to put up their work outside to hinder the resources that we are entitled to, and for a salary of HUF 5-6 million, they would not be working to prevent teachers from earning HUF 800,000. We thank you. In 2024 there will be 3225 billion forints for health care, which will give health institutions 424 billion forints more than this year. So only from this year to next year there will be 424 billion forints more for healthcare, and 2027 billion forints more than in 2010. Since 2010, the highest rate of wage growth has been achieved in health care. The budget of 2024 prioritises the financial appreciation of public service workers. In 2010, the Hungarian budget spent just HUF 2600 billion on public sector workers' wages.In 2024 it reached HUF 6460 billion. [[9.20]] The protection of pensioners remains in a war situation, the inflation-following pension increase, the rebuilt and increased 13th month pension, and, if economic growth permits, a pension premium will also be paid. Here I would like to draw attention to the DK hypocrisy and the incredibly facial toast in which they say that they have introduced the pension premium, why we do not praise them on this matter. Maybe our memories aren't what they used to be. I'd like to freshen this up. Legally, the framework of the pension premium was founded by the Gyurcsány government. I would ask my fellow Members to know how many times Gyurcsányek and Bajnai have paid the pension premium. This number is exactly zero. So they made a law that they didn't pay the pensioners. It's a kind of Gyurcsány trick out of hundreds of tricks, it's probably some sort of left-wing clever thing to do, to make a law, just not to pay the pensioners the money they deserve. On the other hand, we have managed to pay the pension premium to pensioners on several occasions thanks to the performance of the economy, the government's economic policy and the joint success of Hungarian workers. In 2010, the government undertook to preserve the real value of pensions. As a result of these measures, pensions have increased by 92 percent since 2010. In addition, in 2024 the government maintained the social contribution tax and contribution exemption of pensioners' income. For us Christian democrats, support for churches and the life of faith is a priority. From 2010 to 2024 the amount of ecclesiastical support increased more than six times. I think it is a great achievement that, as long as the churches in the Western European countries, which you are ape, will be closed, we will renovate them and protect them. There they destroy or convert it into a mosque, disco, museum, until then in Hungary and in the Carpathian Basin, these built heritage and the scenes of the community are preserved and renovated. Let us remember that, between 2002-2010, the governments led by Ferenc Gyurcsány took away the state's contribution to the maintenance of the social and educational institutions that are legitimate under the law. This activity was continued, honourable Members, after the Constitutional Court found that there was a violation of the law and pointed out the discriminatory action, and then, despite the decision of the Constitutional Court, Ferenc Gyurcsány continued to fail to pay the churches the funds that were rightfully due to institution maintenance. Since then, we have been hearing anti-religion and anti-religious manifestations from the left-wing benches, where they are trying to defile our churches of great social work. I'll give you an example. Gergely Arató, DK, said that the number of religiously reserved educational institutions should be reduced by a quarter. It's their program to take away the reserved educational institutions from the churches. On the other hand, we are proud that since 2010, there has been more than a double increase in the number of church-owned public education institutions and vocational training institutions, which are now more than 240 thousand people. The Gyurcsány party, like their communist predecessors, would now take away their educational institutions from the church, their anti-religious outbursts clearly show this. It is also worth mentioning the support of genuine, community-creating and value-creating civil society organisations. The 54 thousand NGOs operating in Hungary at the moment have never received state aid as much as they will next year. Between 2010-21, the rate of public support in the civil sector increased from HUF 144 billion a year to HUF 503 billion a year, i.e. more than three times a year. The Hungarian NGO Fund, the National Cooperation Fund, has a budget of HUF 11 billion in 2023 and is expected to be HUF 13.89 billion in 2024. Finally, it should be noted that the budget of 2024 also allocates a central reserve of HUF 220 billion in view of unpredictable global economic and global political events. Remember, in previous years, you have usually spent it with your amendment proposals, and with all sorts of proposals, you would have already spent the reserve to protect the country in difficult times. Let us remember that this was the reserve from which we were able to obtain the necessary masks, the necessary protective devices or the vaccines for the first signs of the Covid crisis. This was the amount that was available at the beginning of the war to help hundreds of thousands of incoming Ukrainian refugees. This was the amount of money that we could use to help in such a difficult situation, in trouble, such as bankrupt factories. Every year, with their amendments, you would eliminate the reserve, the National Security Fund, even though it is an important budget reserve that has been created for unforeseen events. If it had been up to you, there would have been no money to buy the vaccine, the masks, help the Ukrainian refugees, help the factories, and so on. I find that inappropriate. I am asking you this year to refrain from submitting any amendments against the National Defence Fund because it is important that the country has such a reserve. In a difficult period of crisis, the 2024 budget provides a predictable and predictable basis for maintaining stability in the country and maintaining economic growth. Next year, economic growth is expected to be 4 per cent by reducing inflation, reducing public debt and keeping the budget deficit at a low level that meets the Maastricht criterion. That is why I consider this budget to be eligible, which is why I ask you to support this budget on the basis of the facts and figures. The KDNP fraction will do so. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-06-14-10	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. We now have a preliminary speaker, Mr Miklós Hajnal, representative of Momentum. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-06-14-11	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Just a year ago, one of my first speeches was made during the budget debate at that time. In this speech, I highlighted six different issues concerning Mountains and Bel-Buda, which were spectacularly absent from the budget of 2023. Spectacularly, with several of these promises in the spring, even before the elections, the candidates of the governing parties campaigned fiercely. And then suddenly, it's like they've forgotten the interests of the people here, the promises they made here. I was hoping that this might be a one-time mistake, but unfortunately, in view of the budget for next year, I have to say that the problems I have listed last year have not disappeared. During the past year, countless residents of Buda have contacted me because of problems in the health system, the increase in overhead costs or the violation of environmental rules. Unfortunately, once again, the government has drawn up a draft budget that does not answer or even deepen these problems. That is why I owe it to the residents of the district to present to the Parliament the local cases that still require change, development and budgetary support. Dear Parliament, Every year we say we need more money in health care. What does that mean exactly? Nowhere is this self-evident situation more obvious than at St. John's Hospital, where the bad news comes from every week, the bread is moldy, but we have also heard that crowded waiting rooms are available to every overworked doctor and nurse. The problems could still be described, which is why you promised to renovate John's Hospital in the previous cycle. By now, I think the complete renovation should have been completed if you had kept your promise. Compared to this, they are not even making haste to start the renovation, nor is it shown in the next year's budget where all this money would come from. But there is not only the János Hospital in the constituency, which is affected by this problem; it is similar to the planned and delayed diagnostic building of the National Institute of Oncology. This investment would also accommodate a one-day diagnostic array, a telemedicine center, and an underground garage often missed by patients and residents in the area. Unfortunately, most people still die of cancer in Hungary all over Europe, but clearly the government is a negligible issue, because this investment has also been put on the road. Health is our top priority. Just to give you an example, a few weeks ago, the II. in the district, the Kapás utca office, where the entire downstairs waiting room has been renewed within the framework of the Healthy Budapest program, has upgraded the patient management system and new medical technology has been acquired. But all of this had to be resolved by holding back the money due to the capital for the second year, contrary to the promise of the members of the government. The Healthy Budapest programme now suffers from several tens of billions of dollars in funding cuts, and this tens of billions of forints puts at risk a number of developments that would have been planned, including the next stages of the renovation of the Kapás street office, and we could now mention the various bullshit arguments that there is no money due to sanctions in Brussels, right, that is what they say, blamed on the European Union. That is why I would like to quote to you the Minister of Finance Mihály Varga, because we are still in the budget debate:. We are ready for health care to receive the resources it deserves from national self-esteem. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, [[9.30]] Mihály Varga said that six months ago. So if there is no source now for the oncology of St. John's Hospital or for the renewal of the Budapest clinics for years, it actually means that on the one hand, you do not respect what you are doing, and on the other hand, you are sorry to spend the money on the health of the people in Budapest. In addition to health care, it is important to talk about housing, especially the government's increase in wages that has been affecting everyone for almost a year. We could reduce the energy use of a lot of apartments and a lot of family bills with a state-owned housing upgrade program. We made proposals for this last year, and then I made proposals in winter to remedy the errors of the regime, which were voted out of the wrists of the pro-government representatives at the committee meeting. I have no illusions that they would follow these proposals or any of our proposals to reduce the cost of the rent. However, a sustainable reduction of electricity is only possible if the state supports the energy modernisation of dwellings and encourages the start of a green energy transition. When we are on the verge of a climate disaster, when hundreds of thousands of lives are being made difficult by a single heating season, it is extremely irresponsible to leave all this out of the budget. And speaking of the climate crisis, I'm gonna have to talk a little bit about environmental protection, and that's where I'm gonna mention the Normafa project. I often get the feeling that this government is very happy to spend on destroying natural values. In the draft budget of 2024 an additional HUF 1 billion will be devoted to an investment that has triggered the disapproval of environmental NGOs and the local population at the same time. Economic crisis, restrictions or not, for some reason it is extremely important for you to build snow-cannoned ski slopes and party quarters in one of the largest green areas in Budapest. To this, it seems that there is always money, even when the court just a few weeks ago ruled in a final judgment that it would destroy the government's decision to operate snow cannons on the ski slope. That is why I have submitted a written question, and I am very curious about exactly what you intend to do with this additional HUF 1 billion on Normafa. If the budget for next year is already called a defence budget, then it would be very good if similar amounts were to be used to protect nature. But let's get back to the question of what you can't afford. Let's talk, for example, about the settlement of Budakeszi road traffic, about the development of Budakeszi road. Before last year's elections, the news was published in dozens of videos and newspaper articles that the government will finally improve traffic chaos on Budakeszi Road, traffic jams, and as part of the renovation, new bus lanes will be created, among other things. However, since the elections, the enthusiasm seems to have diminished, and now I hear that the Budakeszi road may be ready by 2025, but in any case, in the budget for next year, we do not see any trace of it. However, the construction of the Budakeszi road bus lane and the reduction of the load on the road would be a great relief not only for the agglomeration traffic, but also for all the Buda districts and all the metropolitan roads, as there are many people who come in by car and then travel in the city during the day. And speaking of traffic, I would also like to mention your earlier promise to support the renewal of tram line 59. Otherwise, there is no political debate between us on these issues. Yet, every year, it appears that the capital does not receive enough support from the state for similar projects. In fact, the government is putting increasing tax burdens on the capital. In our district, there are many elderly residents who have difficulty in approaching the stops on bumpy slipways, and the steep steps of the trains, but more and more young families, who have to take the stairs with the stroller, have to lift the stroller onto the tram. This is why the tram line 59 needs to be renovated, which is why it is necessary to support accessibility of stops and the purchase of modern, low-floor, air-conditioned trams. And then I'd like to show you another parallel. Similar works have already started on the 56 tram line, which will be refurbished this summer from capital sources, and next year, thanks to EU support, modern, low-floor, air-conditioned trams will be added. In order for the 59th line to be renewed, it would be essential for the government not to conduct a revenge policy against Budapest, but to support the development of Budapest and, by the way, of the Hegyvidék and Bel-Buda. Dear fellow Members, As these examples show, this budget is not in the interests of the Hungarian people. It ignores the basic needs of the population, continues the revenge policy of the governing parties against the capital and the opposition-led municipalities, which is once again due to people. In addition, this budget goes against what has been promised by the governing parties, your candidate for Congress, which you believed your constituents in last year's elections. So please correct this budget and accept our amendments. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2023-06-14-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. Preliminary speaker Mr Attila Barcza, representative of Fidesz. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-06-14-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I welcome my fellow Members here in the debate on the budget. The budget before this House, which is tabled, is a budget for protection. The most important elements are defence expenditure, pensions, support for pensioners, reduction of rent, continuation of the government's previous tax policy and maintenance of family support. I would like to talk about tourism in this year's budget debate, about the area of tourism in the budget. We know that tourism is the peace industry, and this is what I do in the slogan has been very true in recent years, as this sector has been affected by very serious problems and crises. It is enough for us to think of Covid, which started in 2019, which in an instant crushed tourism at world and European level, but has also demonstrated its vulnerability to the migration crisis, which, in its proposal for a mandatory quota adopted last week in Brussels, will create yet another difficulty in terms of migration. And indeed, the war, the countries in the neighbourhood of war, the issue of security is always a priority part of tourism, because tourists go to places where there is security. Therefore, recovery in tourism is very important after these crises in the current war situation. We see that tourism has started to rise again in Hungary since Covid, the numbers are quite good, the guest night stages are rising both in Budapest and at national level. Of course, there are many components to this. The budget includes the resources necessary for the operation of the Hungarian Tourism Agency. These amounts are available and secured in the budget. Here I must highlight and reiterate that the fact that the management of tourism is in the hands of an organisation is a measurable good of all efficiency aspects, so that the tourism management system can be more transparent, simpler and more efficient. This House has had a debate over the past period on the introduction of the NTAK system. I would also like to say here, in this debate, that with this very modern digitalisation transition, the Tourism Agency will be able to establish one of the most advanced tourism management systems in the world, and that data will be available for targeted marketing and for strengthening Hungarian businesses, accommodation and catering providers, which are essential for targeted marketing and cost-efficiency aspects. The impact of destination-based developments has already been shown in recent years, and we must continue to do so in the future. It is important to point out that, as I said in my introduction, we are talking about a defence budget and we need to be realistic about what the priorities are and what the priorities are. Despite this, it is a great achievement that many elements of the Hungarian government's transport development can continue, continue, and can continue this year. I would first like to talk about road transport in relation to tourism. Accessibility in tourism is one of the most important aspects for tourists. In addition to the price, the Hungarian tourist mainly takes into account the accessibility aspects, and therefore the accessibility of the renowned tourist areas, the cities with county rights and the local settlements with tourist potential is of particular importance. The Hungarian government continues its unbroken commitment to connect every county-righted city to the motorway, two-track road network. The constituency of Sopron is a good example of this, as the Hungarian government has spent more than HUF 300 billion in recent years to link Csorná to Sopron's expressway. This has opened up new economic opportunities for people living in the region, making transport faster and safer, and now, this year, the resources needed to continue this road development are available. [[9.40]] This is how the tunnel under the Crowning Hill is built, and the northwest bypass road is built at Sopron, and we will not stop to the border, so that in the continuation of Budapest-M1, the M85 will reach the border crossing of Sopron. I would add here that this is a Schengen border, as well as the surrounding small settlements are Schengen borders, and I very much hope that sooner or later all EU countries will see this and will think so in the long term, because we have difficulties here. However, it is also important to talk about fixed-track transport, which is particularly important from a work point of view in Budapest, but also from a tourist point of view. Here, the government has very large ideas, and this year, many resources can be used for such purposes in terms of planning. And I would mention that when we talk about tourism, we cannot miss the importance of air transport. Here, I consider it a historical crime to lose our country's airport to know when, and we know for what reason. As long as we cannot correct this mistake, we will have far fewer means in terms of air transport to have a potentially greater influence and better work to allow tourists from abroad to come from new territories or existing areas to our country, spend more time here, spend more, and thus help both domestic accommodation and catering services. I consider the programme "Modern Cities" to be a very high achievement, and I would like to note here that the program started in Sopron in 2015, Viktor Orbán made the first statement with Civitas Fidelissima. The elements of the program "Modern Cities" will be continued in most places in the country, some improvements will be redesigned, but the existing projects will continue. An excellent example of this is what happened this week, because we handed over one of the new gems of downtown Sopron, the new museum district in Sopron, which will be a completely new touristic core area in the city by linking the Storno House, the General House and the Fabricius House; we are very proud of this, and thank you here for the support that the government has been able to contribute to. It started from Sopron, as well as this year's festival season, because the festivals have a very important role to play in building countries. SopronFest, a new, brand-new Hungarian festival, has been implemented with excellent organization, and now, during the summer period, such programs come at national level. I think the importance of these is very high, because these are of particular importance to young people in terms of country image, and the Budapest, Balaton and the national catering sector also need these extra revenues and extra guest nights. The situation in the budget is such that I think that we need to recognise that the most important things, protection, reduction in overhead costs, pensions and the preservation of family support, are the most important, it is a reality. There are areas for which the government would like to spend, and I think that Parliamentary consensus can also develop in many areas, but these are not possible this year. We are in a difficult situation due to sanctions, and by redesigning and optimizing certain projects we can prepare for the next period of development. Congressman Miklós Dawn, who has since left the room, has spoken a lot about health care. I don't know if he noticed that there was a raise in medical and nursing wages that would continue while he was talking about this subject area, and I'm not sure he was aware of it. He said we were referring to sanctions for lack of money in the budget. This is a debate between us, let's not talk about it now, but then let's talk about EU money. Because in EU money, we do not refer to anything, but we refer to the fact that we do not receive the European Union funds we owe, for simple political reasons, and its role as a lion, unfortunately in this. There is a lion's share of the Hungarian opposition. [[László Varju and Lőrinc Nacsa intervene.]] There are very few European examples of these very few European examples! that representatives of a country, representatives of a nation, speak out against their own country in Brussels. [[Laszlo Varju: Oh! Laszlo Szászfalvi: That's right! László Varju: Fake! Laszlo Szászfalvi: This is what you do! László Varju: Fake!]] It is possible to see how many EU Member States' representatives do so. There is no 100% government anywhere, there are more parties everywhere in the European Parliament, and opinions are contrary, and interests are contrary, if any; but the fact that Members act so openly against their country is unparalleled, I think. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right! That's right!]] And they can and can help the Hungarian budget by developing as much space as possible if they are working to get these funds to Hungary, and even through the regional development operational programme, useful and important improvements can be made in almost all Hungarian settlements. I think that this is the best way to help plan the budget for 2024, to realise what money will be paid for, if they help the government in doing so, so that the funds due to our country will certainly be given to us in Brussels. Hungary is a good place, a wonderful and beautiful country, and I think we need to work together to work on strengthening and developing this. This is also supported by the budget for 2024. I ask that this be adopted by this House after the debate. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-14-14	Thank you very much, Congressman Attila Barcza. The next announced speaker was Ms Zita Gurmai, Member of the MSZP. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2023-06-14-15	Thank you very much. Dear House, Before I start talking about the budget for next year, I will tell you some facts about the state in which the Hungarian health system is already underlining, and I will list facts. I'm telling you facts, that is reality, and the reality is that I'm being shut down by hospital departments because the Fidesz government has driven away doctors. It's just that last year, more than 280 cases of hospital wards stopped. 20 out of 34 beds were taken out of the Budapest Uzoki Street Hospital. At the St. Cross Hospital in Kalocsa, the infant and children's classes and the operation of obstetric care should be suspended due to a shortage of specialists. In Szolnok, the infant and paediatric intensive care at Hetényi Géza Hospital has ceased. Also in Szolnok a few months later, infant and paediatric cardiological care was discontinued. Fidesz caused this, that's a fact, but I'll tell you more. The country has 621 permanently unfilled GP practice, and this number is growing year after year. 621 places don't have medical care, and that's Fidesz's crime. You can say this to talk about what happened before 2010, and I'll tell you that in 2010, there were over 600 more GPs. Now we are talking about the fact that only the number of pediatricians in this area has decreased by more than 200. Why don't you put that on the billboard? Why doesn't the government announce that they're destroying the basic care that the entire profession is protesting? This transformation means that the Fidesz government is taking care away from patients. It is an undisputed fact that Fidesz reduces people's access to health care, and where doctors in the new on-call system do not sign the on-call contract, residents are forced to perform on-call tasks. Well, where's the patient's safety? ! What's this madness? ! I stress that I will continue to state the facts. It is also true that today 102 021 children do not have access to any medical care on the spot. And then the Fidesz government talks about protecting children? Shame and shame! Since 2016, there has been a doubling of the number of unfilled paediatric areas. There are areas in North-East Hungary where 3,000 children belong one more time: a single psychologist. In the European Union, most people die of cancer in Hungary. We're losing 325 of our countrymen in cancers per 100,000 people. Since 2010, the Fidesz government has closed more than 5,000 hospital beds about who reduces the number of hospital beds in Hungary, and I hope that is what Máté Kocsis hears. It is also a fact that the Fidesz government spends much less on health care than other EU countries. Let us say: you save on the health of the Hungarian people, and for this the Hungarian people pay with their lives. It is also a fact that, according to the latest data, the highest mortality in Hungary could have been prevented. [[9.50]] Meanwhile, more than 4,500 employees are missing because the Fidesz government doesn't pay them. I have said facts; those who argue with this stand up to reality. The reality is that the Hungarian health system is in a tragic situation, and the complete collapse can happen at any time. In light of this, it is simply shocking that, according to the budget for next year, the Fidesz government will further reduce the financing of health care, because the Fidesz budget does not count on inflation rising prices, the deterioration of the forint. On the basis of the inflation figures in May 2023, the fee for services increased by 14.3 percent compared to the situation a year ago. Health inflation is around 22 percent, but the Fidesz government doesn't care at all. According to next year's budget, the increase in health expenditure is often less than 1 per cent: it is less than 1 per cent, while health inflation is more than 20 per cent. And they spend even less money on drug subsidies than they did last year. You've just raised taxes on medicines by 20 and 40 percent, which is why products can disappear in bulk, because it's not worth selling them to manufacturers, which remains a drug, it's going to be brutally expensive. Under these circumstances, Fidesz wants to give less money for drug subsidies. What fate does Viktor Orbán intend for sick people? It's just outrageous, shocking. In these circumstances, the reduction of drug subsidies will cause tragedies. The level of funding has also decreased in the area of basic supply. This is where it is noted that the state will take over the protective women's network from 1 July, which has been world-class so far. Yesterday was the day of the Hungarian women's defense, thank you for your sacrifice. It is clear that the current reform of the protective system raises a number of problems; I hope that the Minister will answer me what has happened. Of course, Fidesz will destroy this, just like all the other areas taken over. This is clear from the fact that the protective system is now being deprived of some of its funding. You could say that even the gold in the hands of the Fidesz turns to mud. As regards outpatient care, it should be pointed out that although the present proposal does not contain a nationalisation measure, the government has previously declared plans to nationalise outpatient care. This would clearly lead to a reduction in resources for municipal institutions. In the area of specialist care there is also a withdrawal of funds. In conclusion, the 2024 budget in almost all areas will further undermine the disastrous situation of Hungarian health. There is no evidence in the next year's budget that there is an increase in the salaries of workers and health workers. In next year's budget, there is no evidence that the Fidesz government would do anything to prevent the continued closure of hospital departments. Fidesz will let the waiting lists continue to grow and will not give money to increase the efficiency of the healthcare system. This is what's in front of us, the budget for the sick people's hit-and-run. This budget is like a premeditated crime against Hungarian citizens. The conclusion of this could really only be that they should be ashamed of themselves. Thank you so much for listening.
u2023-06-14-16	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai. Preliminary speaker is the representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Hajnalka Juhász. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2023-06-14-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First let me respond to my colleague Zita Gurmai, since she sees health care through these glasses. After all, it is important to emphasise that in 2024 there will be HUF 3225 billion in healthcare, which means that healthcare institutions can manage more than HUF 424 billion this year, which is HUF 2027 billion more than in 2010. And the other is that my colleague said that we would turn gold into mud. I think that we are trying to turn the mud that you left behind into gold, because from 2010 onwards, the government has given priority to the moral and financial appreciation of health workers. This is reflected in the fact that during this period, the health sector has received one of the highest wage increases, so that medical salaries have increased more than ever, thanks to a comprehensive wage development of several years from 2021. Despite the war and economic challenges, the government decided on a further wage development programme in 2022, so that health professionals will receive a new wage increase in two stages, from 1 July 2023 and from 1 March 2024 and at the same time in health care. I would add that the budget for 2024 also covers the two phases of the wage development programme for health professionals and health workers, which started in 2023. So much for how we're dealing with health care. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft budget for 2024 had to be presented to the government in extremely difficult and uncertain circumstances, in the shadow of the failed Brussels sanctions policy and the war in the neighbouring country. At the same time, as in the past nine years, we must also bear in mind the importance of providing suitable bases for Hungarian families, Hungarian companies, in this unstable world political and global economy environment, for the purpose of planning ahead next year, about what the Hungarian government's intentions and plans are for 2024, i.e. the environment in which those involved can expect their ideas to be realised. Ladies and gentlemen, It has been said several times that the budget for 2024 is a budget for protection. By doing so, we also mean the protection of our physical security in the wake of the prolonged Russian-Ukrainian war, so in the draft for 2024 there will be more resources for defence expenditure than before. But under the term "Protection" we should not only think about protecting the physical security of our country, we should also include, and also include, the protection of, our achievements since 2010, including the reduction of costs, the creation of jobs and the protection of families, which are very closely linked. Because, on the one hand, due to the reduction of the rent, Hungarian families today receive one of the lowest energy bills in Europe. We would like to maintain this next year. On a monthly basis, this represents HUF 181 thousand in support for Hungarian families, which can be used by families for other expenses. On the other hand, the Government of Hungary believes in a work-based society, so it is not surprising that the focus on active work-incentives in family policy has increased over the past year than on aid. We believe that the most we can do for the rise of families is stable job creation and an ever-increasing system of family support. On the basis of this idea, over the last few years, we have created a targeted and flexible family support system and a family-friendly tax system based on the appreciation of child rearing and work, based on one of Europe's lowest personal income tax rates and family tax incentives, which we should be proud of. Today, more and more people in Hungary live from work instead of aid, and the fact that more than 900 thousand people have jobs today also means that more people can make use of these work-based benefits. In figures: in the period between 2010 and 22 nearly HUF 4000 billion remained in taxes and contributions for approximately one million families with children. It's a huge thing, and we should be proud of that. On the basis of the results of the 2018 national consultation, I can say that we are not alone in this idea, since 97.5 percent of respondents in the consultation on the protection of families supported the connection of family support to employment. [[10.00]] Ladies and gentlemen, Today, we can say that Europe is one of the most comprehensive, if not the most comprehensive, family support system, consisting of many elements. Over the past years, support for families has been demonstrated, despite economic difficulties, and this is supported by the budget plan for 2024. But what values and results do we need to protect in the area of family policy? Ladies and gentlemen, Over recent years, existing benefits have been extended and new forms of support have been introduced. A number of successful results can be reported. Today, more than 30 measures are now available for families. I would like to mention some without the need for completeness. We can talk about the abolition of the total student loan debt of women who have children in 30 years and their absence to the average wage. Since 2010, the total amount of Gyed has increased more than three times, since the beginning of the year the maximum gross amount has reached 324 800 HUF, from which family tax relief can be applied. We also introduced the Gyed extra and your graduate daughter, which also increased on 1 January, and since 2010, the child has been back three years. In 2019 the family protection action plan was announced and a wide-ranging home creation programme was introduced. As a result, significant public support could continue to be available next year for families with children who want to move to a home or renovate the existing one. The family discount is now available to both earners, and this includes not only personal income tax, but also pension and health insurance, as well as labour market contributions. The situation of single - parent families is also important to us. Targeted measures were introduced by January 2022 to improve living conditions for single - parent families. As of 1 January 2023, a number of changes in labour law were introduced to support families. Ten working days of paternity leave may be obtained after the child is born or adopted, and until the child is three years old, the parent shall be entitled to parental leave of 44 working days if the child has been in employment for at least one year. In addition, in the case of at least six months of employment, it is possible for the child to apply for part-time or teleworking employment until the age of eight. Since January 2023, there has also been an increased family benefit for children who are permanently ill or severely disabled. [[The chair is occupied by Dóra Dúró, Vice-President of the Parliament.]] Our children's access to quality education will also contribute to the long-term prosperity of families in the future, so more resources will be allocated to education next year than this year, HUF 3434 billion, and we will also pay particular attention to ensuring the necessary resources for maintaining and developing the competitiveness of higher education. But there are also a number of other targeted benefits for families in this area, such as the free textbook supply, mentioned by my fellow Member Nacsa Lőrinc, or support for the first successful language exam for young people, to which the government has allocated HUF 1.1 billion in next year's budget. In addition, free and discounted children's meals have become more widespread. This option has been available since 2015 to children whose parents have lower incomes. Today, not only in summer, but in all breaks, we provide a once-a-day meal for children in need. Ladies and gentlemen, Every year since 2010, we have increased the amount of resources to be spent on families, which represents HUF 3357 billion this year. In Europe, we provide the largest support for families, which will represent HUF 3307 billion in next year's budget. This includes various family policy expenditures and tax incentives. For the sake of comparison, this is three and a half times higher than the expenditure on this subject in 2010, some HUF 2370 billion. It will also be available next year to ensure, among other things, the maintenance of our family tax system benefits for women with at least four children and children under the age of 30, as well as for personal income tax exemptions under the age of 25. The amount of resources allocated to family tax and contribution allowances and to the benefit of first married people exceeds HUF 370 billion by 2024. 9 billion forints are available to ensure the freedom of women who have children during 30 years. The Hungarian government plans to spend 185 billion forints on the freedom of people under the age of 25, which greatly helps young people start their own lives, taking considerable burdens off the shoulders of families in support of their adult children. The amount of resources that can be used for children's meals will also increase in 2024. This will reach 105 billion HUF in the course of next year. This amount is 75 billion HUF higher than it was in 2010. In addition, the free textbook supply has been completed from the year 2020-21, to which nearly HUF 16 billion was allocated in the budget of 2024. Ladies and gentlemen, Since 2011, i.e. since its introduction, the family tax and contribution allowance left some HUF 4000 billion in the family. I am brave to say that the support of Hungarian families, childbearing and child rearing will continue to play a prominent role in the Hungarian government's policy. Thanks to the new targeted benefits, families most vulnerable to adverse economic impacts have been given even more favourable conditions. Our aim is to ensure that all children are born and that any financial difficulties do not constitute a deterrent to our family policy. In view of this, we are constantly looking at the system of family policy, and we are developing it depending on the opportunities given, so that we can help all families and find measures to support their situation in all areas of life, such as the newly introduced county and country lease, which also supports the mobility of families. Ladies and gentlemen, I can safely say that the Hungarian family policy and family support system is recognised at international level, and we will stand up and stand up for it in spite of all the difficulties, because it is strategically important for us government representatives to support Hungarian families. In our opinion, Hungarian families are the strongest bastions of our national prosperity, and Hungarian families can count on the Hungarian government in the future, as has been the case in the past. I therefore ask you to support the draft budget for 2024, since one of the fundamental objectives of this is to maintain Europe's largest family support system. KDNP will support it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-14-18	Welcome, fellow Members. The next speaker was Mr Koloman of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2023-06-14-19	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The budget always reflects a kind of value choice. I'd like to start by saying, let's face it, that whoever, say, presents a budget before the summer, is at least struggling with unsubstantiated corner numbers. This has been the case in recent years, and this year is even more so. In a balanced civil democracy, in which we conservatives believe, we obviously have to submit a budget at the end of the year, which can then be drawn up on the basis of an analysis of the specific figures of that year, so that it reflects the government's value choice. This would, of course, be in a balanced civil democracy and a social market economy, which you, Fidesz Members, have not heard very much about in the last 13 years, since they are constantly and clearly pushing the political arrangement of our country towards a one-party overpower which, unfortunately, is now in fact the case of our country from among the states of the European Union. [[10.10]] However, let us look at the value choices of the budget submitted, because, of course, as in the far less-beautiful communist times, we, the Jobbik-Conservatives, are pretending to live in a balanced civil democracy and expressing our opinion on how a national and conservative budget should deal with different areas. György Matolcsy, the current Fidesz President of the Central Bank, has said that you wasted a decade when the European Union's resources were at the disposal of the Hungarian government, and we have also experienced a global economic activity, and in these years the countries of the region, yes, the countries with which we started together after the Soviet-Russian occupation towards a kind of civil democracy, have all been more stewards with these years than those of the Fidesz one-party overpower. That is why the Hungarian citizens' wages are there, that one of the lowest in the European Union, and that is indeed the fault of Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and Fidesz, who has been governing for 17 years, and that the remaining 12 years will be shared with the Balliberal side. That wasn't better either. So what we have to say is that we Jobbik-Conservatives are not out on the streets by accident and we are collecting signatures to catch up on the wages of Hungarian citizens. In this budget, too, according to the revenue side, there would be a source of the wage catch-up that our conservative political community has been pushing for for two years, such as in the field of education. For we can imagine a turn in Klebelsberg as a responsible and national force, which means that over the course of a few years it would be possible to raise GDP-related support for education, let alone to 6 or even 8 percent, as happened after the first world war and after the shameful Trianon peace dictatorship, in Count Klebelsberg's time. There is no magic in this which you now constantly refer to when EU funds arrive. I would like to point out from here to every Hungarian voter who is considering a completely unthinkable decision to vote for the Fidesz list in the European Parliament next year, that it is completely unnecessary to vote for them, because 13 members of the European Parliament are sitting here, and you are here, in this debate, saying that the European Union funds are not coming to our country; is it really certain that the President of the Jobbik-Conservatives, Márton Gyöngyösi, can prevent this, while there are 13 representatives of the European Union sitting there for Fidesz, and there is nothing you can do about it? Seriously? So you really believe that with Hungarian citizens? I note only quietly that there are more than 700 Members in the European Parliament and, moreover, you have no right to make such a decision. So you fool Hungarian citizens, you don't take them seriously. It would be a political decision that we have been demanding for two years that teachers' wages be immediately increased by 50 percent and that applies to the university world. Speaking of the university world, I think it is a shame that you, let's say, explain the progress in international rankings by transforming 80 percent of the Hungarian university world into a foundation form for the maintenance of Fidesz Curatoriums. With all due respect, it is the result of a long process of at least 15 years, that Hungarian universities are holding on up in international rankings, thank God. As a former university leader, I can also tell you why this is so. Because previously the publications of Hungarian universities, called peer review, were not taken into account by the Hungarian universities. In this university, very serious projects were launched 15 years ago, when you didn't even govern, I'll tell you. That work is beginning to ripen, so do not refer to the fact that, because Hungarian universities are currently going up in the Rankings, whatever this has to do with you saying this in a serious violation of academic freedom and academic autonomy, as the rapporteur of the Council of Europe has transformed 80 percent of the Hungarian university world into a foundation form, which is a form of foundation where virtually Fidesz members of the board of directors think that they are destined for human policy decisions, for example. No, no! This is indeed a serious violation of university autonomy, when, for example, Corvinus' Board of Trustees decided not to need them then, let's say, arms. This is one of the most important pillars of university autonomy, isn't it, that they also appear as a faculty in the same profession within a university. So I think that the Hungarian university world is XXI. In the century of knowledge and information, he deserves much more than that. The salaries of academics and workers are lower than those of European wages, but also those of the Central European region. Here, too, we will propose a 50% wage increase with the amendments tabled to the budget, as emigration from the scientific sphere is also huge, not only migration in general. Let's see what percentage of young people in better high schools don't plan their university studies in our country. Now, that's the real national tragedy that's gonna come from this. Let me also highlight another element of Fidesz's one-party overpower, anti-knowledge and intellectual policy, and this is the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. Recently there was a personal change at the head of the Eötvös Loránd Research Network. It's not a coincidence, I think. We also need to point out that if the President of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, with whom I have personally had the pleasure of speaking as rapporteur, and even with his predecessor, when I prepared my report in an interview, complains that he is not very good at talking to, say, the Prime Minister or even a responsible minister, and that the former minister, Minister Palkovics, always remembered their agreement differently the next day from the one in which they really agreed, then I think this shows the arrogance of the current Fidesz power to the whole of science. Yet science is the key to our future in the 21st century. In the 20th century, and universities are the knowledge centres that provide all Hungarian citizens with the knowledge and skills for which the 21st edition of the 21st edition of the Act on Education and Education is based. In the first century, all Hungarian citizens need very much to live a balanced, prosperous and happy life. Ladies and gentlemen, For the Jobbik-Conservatives, culture is a national basis. That is why I would like to express our view that, on the one hand, the social control of the National Cultural Fund must be restored. I myself took part in the work of such bodies many years ago, where we certainly decided, on the basis of very serious debates and professional debates, on the basis of which association organizes local communities; because, my fellow Members, we conservatives believe in tradition and the power of local communities and the connective tissue of a society is provided by everyone having access to culture. Now, this can be best supported with the support of local associations. I think that this is why, on the one hand, it is necessary to raise the support of the National Cultural Fund, and I ask my fellow Members from here, with respect, to support this too. In addition, the social control of the distribution mechanism really needs to be considered, because, unfortunately, at present, in the cultural sphere, the fidesz cultural policy, the pope of which is Szilárd Demeter, whose business would not have been in Hungarian public life for a very long time, is that instead of creating an honest, truly national Hungarian film, you are entrusting these tasks to Rákay Philip, who is a gold Mercedes. It's a shame and a disgrace! Dear fellow Members, Fidesz, Culture is a national fund and deserves corresponding support, in our view. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2023-06-14-20	Our next speaker is Congressman Gergely Tapolczai of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2023-06-14-21	[[He shall make his speech with the assistance of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The general debate on the budget for 2024 began yesterday. Many things have been said in the author's exposé and in the speeches by the lead speakers, many important areas have been affected by my fellow Members. [[10.20]] They talked about tax policy, family support system, education, health care, pensions, inflation, jobs, defence expenditure. We now need a defence budget that protects the country's security, families, jobs and cuts in overhead. There may have been fewer words in one area so far, which, although it is a small slice of the entire budget cake, is still very important, and this is the social area, the care policy, including disability, which affects and covers almost all areas of life. If you look at the 2010 figures, compared to the 2024 figures, you can see that the amount spent on social, child protection and child welfare services has increased from HUF 325.5 billion to HUF 1461.1 billion, i.e. the rate of growth: 349 percent. This is also very important because those working in the area of care policy work for Hungarian families, for the whole nation. It is a very important step forward that the aid scheme was highly aid-based before 2010, with nearly one million people living or applying for aid, and this trend has been reversed over the past 13 years and nearly one million new jobs have already been created. In particular, it is a great achievement that, in parallel with the increase in the number of people employed, employment of people with disabilities has increased sharply. Their employment level increased from 18% in 2011 to 44 percent in 2022, an increase of 150 percent. In 2024 the most important objectives of the social affairs field are the long-term, predictable operation and development of social, child welfare and child protection services. I would like to highlight some of the many important tasks: strengthening social child welfare and child protection providers, further developing the labour market situation of disabled people with disabilities, and encouraging the employment of workers with disabilities in the open labour market as much as possible, shaping social attitudes; promoting institutions providing autistic persons and providing small numbers of people with disabilities, continuing support for disability counselling in designated family and child welfare centres, further strengthening the first line and signalling system of child protection; implementing the national disability programme action plan, and replacing social institutional facilities for disabled persons, implementing the tasks provided for in the Government decision on a long-term concept between 2017 and 2036 using domestic and EU resources; ensuring an adequate level of operation of assisted housing services. To sum up all these important tasks in figures, we can say that there is a HUF 84.8 billion more in social, child protection and child welfare services than in 2023. Support for the employment of workers with disabilities will increase to HUF 61.5 billion, which means HUF 4.3 billion more resources. The funding of disability and rehabilitation benefits was planned with HUF 390.9 billion, which was HUF 16.3 billion more than in 2023. In 2024 the source is 52.3 billion forints for disability support and for blind people's personal benefits, as well as for people with disabilities, which is 8.3 billion forints more budget support compared to 2023. Let me also mention a very important development. As of 1 January 2023, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights shall perform the tasks of the independent mechanism under the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, adopted in 2007. The operation of the disability mechanism has become one of the main tasks of the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. A new customer service has been established in Debrecen in order to carry out the activity. The budget for 2024 also allocates additional resources to this task. It is also important that the performance of the tasks listed in the legislation is also supported by the Consultative Board on Disability, composed of delegates from organisations representing people with disabilities, representing civil society. It is also very important to support sectoral professional programmes promoting equal opportunities for people with disabilities, to support social organisations for people with disabilities, and to support the sport of people with disabilities. I always mention these in every debate on the budget, because I consider it my heart to provide adequate support for important equal opportunities programmes such as the home assistance model programme, assistance dog training, sign language interpreting services and elementary rehabilitation services, the operation of infocommunication-based distance services, the support of autistic homes and other disabled housing homes. It is very important that advocacy organisations also function in a stable manner, implementing their professional work for decades. The year 2024 will also be an outstanding year in the field of disability sport: summer paralympics, winter deaflympics, organ transplants, European games await our disabled athletes. Similarly, I would like to make an amendment to recent years, taking into account this year's particularly difficult year. Inflation, increase in overhead costs, this has affected the operation, stability and branding of organisations for the activities of sports organisations, the preparation of athletes and their participation in international competitions. I think it is important that these two areas have additional resources, and I ask for the support and assistance of my fellow Members. Overall, I see that the draft budget, together with the increases, guarantees that citizens in need of care in the social field, including foreign citizens, including Ukrainian citizens, will and will also be provided with assistance for refugees. At the same time, I support the draft budget for 2024 and ask my fellow Members to support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[10.30]]
u2023-06-14-22	The next speaker is Mr President Novak, from the Group of Our Country. Here you go.
u2023-06-14-23	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Madam President. Dear Parliament, While the government claims that we will have a budget that guarantees the security of Hungary and protects the families, in fact, defence procurements are only decorative in the size of Ukraine's support. In 2024 they plan to support families by HUF 50 billion less than the budget for 2023; moreover, it is not worth it because of the inflation rate of the EU record. Since September last year, real earnings have been declining. According to KSH data, the purchase value of the wage decreased by 48 percent in seven months. Food prices in the EU have increased to the greatest extent here in Hungary. According to György Matolcsy, the Hungarian food industry is the second least competitive in the EU after Bulgaria. Hungarian inflation is the largest in the EU every month since last November, still above 20 percent; Estonia follows us by 13 percent in the EU, with much lower inflation. If there will be a single digit by the end of the year, which will be discussed in the context of continuous propaganda instead of reality, we can still talk about 15-20 percent inflation on an annual basis. The government, although not confessing, has an interest in increasing inflation, deliberately excites it, as it can incentivise all state aid, such as the public sector's wages. Apart from pensions, almost nothing follows inflation, however we push for it. For example, the amount of family tax relief for children, according to the MNB's statements, is less than half as much as it was when it was introduced in 2011, since it was inflated. The government's failed economic policy has three main crimes. On the one hand, the economy was shaken by the use of the coronal virus, in many cases by counterproductive closures. On the other hand, the Hungarian national economy has been burdened by our draining of multinational companies supported by the government. Thirdly, the embargo against the Russians, which has been going on for years, has also caused invaluable damage to various sanctions, which were not even vetoed by Viktor Orbán. This is a budget of uncertainty, which lies ahead of us, with one sure point: support for multinationals. It seems that multinational companies not only dictate the labour code to the government, but also the state budget. For example, digital techs, such as Facebook or Google, continue to be exempt from advertising tax. However, 90% of companies in Hungary belong to the SME sector. Seven out of ten jobs in the labour market are offered by these small and medium-sized enterprises, and on average, this segment accounts for 50 percent of GDP, but they do not receive the same amount of support, for example, in terms of jobs. Don't even think about it. There are, of course, assisted areas, such as the reparations resulting from the Paris Peace Treaty of 1947, which means that holocaust compensations can continue endlessly until the seventh time; absurdly, it is still a budget line. In the wake of the Mohács emergency, why don't we pay the descendants? [[Nacsa Lőrinc: How lucky you are with the president!]] At the Treasury Department, time seems to have stopped. I just don't know if it's 1947 or around 2020. For example, for the implementation of the national coronal virus plant, the budget for 2023 is HUF 8.6 billion, almost double that in 2024 and HUF 16.2 billion is planned. That's pretty amazing. In addition, at the end of 2021 László Palkovics said that production will start at the Debrecen plant at the end of 2022; compared with this, the investment declared to be of major importance for the national economy is still in semi-finished condition. Of course, I'm not missing the factory, I'm missing the money in the state register, health care, for example, the elimination of waiting lists. And speaking of resources, let me quote the Viradat programme of our country's movement: property tax on the oligarchs. Because we would have the oligarchs accounted for, but in many cases, because of the illegal political crime, the recovery of public wealth can only be achieved through the tax on billions of wealth; so if we want not only populist promises but real radical steps, then this is necessary. Moreover, the taxation of billionaires is justified and fair because social scissors are increasingly opening up between rich and poor, social mobility is decreasing, so we would need a greater tax on billionaires, as well as, let's say, casinos and multi-enterprises. And speaking of resource shortages, let us also talk about the problem of the EU that causes you headaches. The main question about the Union is whether we should be members or be free? It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, This is basically not a question of money, if the EU intervenes more and more in our internal affairs, it eliminates our national self-determination, bringing our country together into a European united states instead of a Europe of nations. But he's getting more colonial, he's taking advantage of us, which is a budgetary issue. Thomas Piketty, the famous French economist, calculated that more profits are going out from Hungary to the West by multi-enterprises than EU funding is coming back. So I wish I could refer to Magdolna Csath, who you voted down here in the last few months, but if even such a left-wing star economist shows this, then I think that this, we can say, is out of the question. The Prime Minister has also acknowledged this. Although the Hungarian Movement says that it is not possible to leave overnight or even from one year to the next, it is necessary to draw up a balance sheet for our accession to the EU, to take stock of other options; to build bilateral economic cooperation with other countries and to list these options. There is life outside the Union and even after the Union, even after the Union has ceased to exist, there is a need to prepare for life after the Union. At the bottom of page 82 of the draft budget, we can see the nearly 700 billion HUF that we would pay directly to the European Union next year. Our Homeland Movement proposes that we not pay membership fees until we receive our subsidies. Let's give this money to teachers to raise wages, for example. The Hungarian financial support of Ukraine is also unacceptable. According to the government resolution of 16 March, we support the anti-Hungarian Ukrainians through the EU with 74 billion HUF, and instead of veto through the EU, for example, ammunition subsidies are supported. Hungary also supports the Ukrainians' war with fuel to ensure the operation of tanks, directly; the Ukrainian oil refineries and reservoirs were destroyed by the Russians in the summer, since then Ukraine's army has been fueled from abroad, mostly with Hungarian gas oil. Dear Secretary of State, I have heard from Fidesz MEPs that if you are hit by the tram, Hungary will not have a budget. In view of this influential role, I visited you in 2016 with a lobby about who dared to say the government at last, and the government says that Hungary's biggest problem is the catastrophic demographic situation. Let us not simply say that it is one of the most serious problems, because this can be said for many things! Who dares to say strategically for the government that the demographic catastrophic situation is what is most serious? Because, for example, we can not only become a minority in our own country, even in this century, if, let us say, we are thinking of foreign migrant workers who want to be deployed by the population explosion of Gypsy or by migrant import law, but also the collapse of the entire public finances in such an ageing society. That's why it should be said, but unfortunately I don't see it, ever since. I know that you, Mr. Secretary of State, have a great deal of interest as a reserve soldier in addition to the development of forces, but somehow we do not see the result. In 2024 they plan to support families by HUF 50 billion less than the 2023 budget, and this is not worth much because of the huge inflation. [[10.40]] Instead of launching the rental building program, which has been waiting for itself for a very long time, across cycles and across Balliberal governments, housing subsidies are now being reduced by half, from HUF 383 billion to HUF 181 billion. We're saying that being a big family is a bigger risk of poverty than being retired. Therefore, the Hungarian Movement calls for a family support system, at least similar to pensions, as well as the abolition of the world record VAT on articles for child rearing, as well as the introduction of full-time parenthood, with guarantees for the Roma issue, of course. According to President György Matolcsy, a decline was also started in 2016, so he called for a demography 2.0 government programme in his response when I asked about the unsustainable situation, for example, that in a statement by the MNB last year, right after the elections, unfortunately, we did not see in front of him that women raised two children would receive a pension of 15 percent, while women raised three children would receive a pension of 20 percent lower than their childless peers. Well, what a social injustice that is! However, it would be possible to make the pension system fairer by recognising childbearing, which Gyula Fekete and many of us here have been pushing for decades in vain, unfortunately, for now, and this could contribute to a healthy and necessary demographic change. Approximately 20 thousand more newborns should be required each year, according to the statement of the President of the Central Bank of György Matolcsy, i.e. in terms of public finances, but the value of family support is decreasing, and not enough according to the MNB's calculations. According to this, raising three children even in the domestic family support system that is undoubtedly generous in international comparison is a significant additional cost, for example, the expected cost of raising three children, the average expenditure is estimated by the MNB to be HUF 86 million, while the public financial support is HUF 54 million; we are talking about the expected estimated cost of raising three children and their average cost; the state only provides 54 out of 86 million forints. So this is not enough, payment, of course, if someone is looking at this from a family budget point of view, and now there is a budgetary debate, and all children are public finances, and also from a national strategy point of view, but this is not reflected in the budget. KSH also showed that the monthly tax base allowance for three children is only half as high as the average wage when it was introduced. Excuse me, this KSH data has been returned to the MNB analysis before the big inflation leap last spring and summer in May, so today the family discount of 99 thousand forints for three children is no longer worth anything, which is probably the main pillar, the biggest pride of the government in 2011 could have been, and I don't dispute that in the area of family policy, but it has vanished. This has also been instilled, and it will continue to sink and be devalued. And so someone should have a child, so that someone should plan a family for decades in advance? ! According to the President of the Central Bank, what took place here in the Parliament, I would not say that in our debate, as the President of the Central Bank and I had a picant consensus in government criticism, he said that Hungary started well in 2010, but unfortunately, only half of the journey was completed, as regards demographic change and change. Well, we didn't get close to the turn of events, because, as he said, dynamics have been decreasing since 2016, and last year only 88,000 children were born, a demographic low point, so he called for a new demographic government programme, but we can't see it now. Our Hungary Movement's Virradat programme includes a family support system that follows inflation for a predictable and predictable future. Otherwise, it would be good for the government to have a programme, even if it were not possible to start a party in the elections that does not put down a programme that can be held accountable in court, as well as for defamation and defamation, let us say, media or other persons in court, I believe that the government could be held accountable for a promise or a lie, but that there is not even a promise, and that there is not even a programme here; this is somewhere the Hungarian policy, especially the shame of Fidesz, that they do not take on the candidates for Prime Minister and therefore, in most cases, not even the candidate for representative. In any case, we encourage the introduction of full-time parenthood in addition to the abolition of the VAT on child-rearing products, as at present only for 15 years, unchanged and undeservingly little HUF 28,500 is due to those who want to devote their lives professionally to raising more children. Of course, to support full-time parenting, we would provide appropriate guarantees: education, former permanent employment and a criminal record would be required by the Hungarian Movement. Dear Parliament, We support any initiative that increases our country's defence capabilities, so we also support the Zrinyi defence and military development programme. At the same time, I must make constructive criticism of the programme, which we consider to be too small for its procurement programmes. For example, the Leopard 2A7HU tank, a battalion of Leopard 2A7HU, to be purchased or to be acquired by 2025, will hardly keep the Ukrainians from attacking. Indeed, the main security challenge for our country since 2014-15 has been the Soviet Ukraine, which has increasingly restricted the rights of the Hungarian national part of Transcarpathia in recent years, suppressing and intimidated the Hungarian community. In the last few years, Hungary has suffered numerous verbal threats from the Ukrainian side, and even two years ago Hungary was declared as Ukraine's number two enemy. There is a danger that, in the event of Ukraine's survival, the Ukrainian forces armed by the West in the Hungarians of Transcarpathia and Hungary will be compensated for the war failure. Unfortunately, the weakness of the Hungarian armed forces makes our country an easy target, and it is also highly doubtful that its allies would come to the aid of the reluctant henchman. After the abolition of the restrictions on the development of forces in 1938, Hungary, crippled in Trianon, built the capacity of the third largest armoured vehicle manufacturer of axle powers in just a few years. The Hungarian military industry, which started from almost zero, produced about 950 pieces of armor until the autumn of 1944, for example, 470 pieces of the Hungarian-developed Turán tank. Unfortunately, the procurements of the programme for defence and force development in terms of purchasing quantities are more of a display, for example, they would hardly hold back an attack on Ukraine. For example, there are only 12 of our many mentioned Leopard tanks at the moment; let's compare this with 470 Turáns back in the day. They understand why we refer to the Horthy era as an example of economic policy, or culturally, there has been a lot of activity and excitement over the decades that we have compared to the politics of the past decades. Well, no wonder you're calling for a statue, Horthy's statue, of course, thus approaching the 155th anniversary of the birth of the governor, when we're going to hold a festive meeting here in the upper house with the Vitézi Order this Sunday; then I think we should bow our heads to the memory and example of our last governor. Instead of participating in the C-17 giant transport aircraft program, specialized in serving foreign occupations, which are also carrying weapons to Ukraine, the Mi Hazan Movement proposes investments for defence purposes instead of our participation in and the acquisition of such activities. For example, from Turkish military companies with relatively fast, cheap and large numbers, besides light armored vehicles, it would be worth considering the purchase of other military technology and possibly the production of licenses. Dear Parliament, What can we expect now when we try to focus attention on problems in the spirit of our constructivity and present constructive amendments? We did this before: last year there were 437 amendments to the budget and how many of them were adopted? Zero, none; of course, all submitted by opposition representatives. Not one has been adopted, although there have been many smaller or bigger, I think it is constructive; dozens of opposition representatives have tried to improve, many of them according to their best consciences. But that none of these were considered, acceptable, and then they were not ashamed to call the system of national cooperation what even voted off my combined spelling amendment proposal! [[10.50]] Because, yes, according to the latest rules of spelling, the spelling of the rational word has changed in one letter, but they have even been able to vote off this amendment. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It wasn't reasonable...]] This shows that it is very cynical to call the national cooperation system where 437 amendments to 437 are voted out of 437 proposals. In the meantime, we are experiencing it, and indeed, while standing in line at the parliamentary cafeteria, there was a Fidesz MEP who, in previous years, complained to me about how good it is for us opposition representatives, because at least we can speak for our narrower Patriots or for any of our matters of heart, but they cannot, for example, present an amendment, unless Antal Rogán approves it from downtown, or the group leader, Máté Kocsis, recently. So they can't really speak on the matter they want, how embarrassing it would be for them to vote against their amendment, which, who knows, is dictated by where or by which multinational companies. In this respect, indeed, we opposition representatives may have more influence than those pro-government Members who can only make a toast instead of a debate, although in principle the item on the agenda is a general debate. Compared to this, we typically see here the greeting speeches and greeting speeches that could have been envied from the Rákosi era. Now, however, there is room for debate, and that is why we are presenting amendments, because in principle the item on the agenda is a general debate. That is why we are presenting various amendments, as we submitted last year, and we can indeed achieve smaller or bigger, rather minor successes with these amendments, so let us be modest in this way. For example, when last year I proposed to separate 100 million forints for the renovation of the first international airport in Hungary, the Budaörs airport, because, for example, the Hungarian Defence Office's national demonstration of military technology could only be approached on an extremely unworthy road, although, as I mentioned, this amendment was also swept away, which I submitted to this year's budget last year, but it was still possible to refurbish this trip in recent months. So I think that we will be able to highlight the unworthy issues, so I would like to suggest this year's renovation of the road to Ferihegy Airport, and I would like to ask you with great respect, because, as in the spirit of country image, let's face it, it is extremely unworthy, which is almost the first time visitors from Hungary can see by plane from Hungary. Of course, in previous years, there have been examples that what we submit may come about shortly after. The previous budgetary debate for me was in 2016, because I gave up my mandate because of the turn of Jobbik, but I was still in the budgetary debate. In one of my last budget amendments, for example, I proposed the renovation and facade renovation of the St. Imre Church next to Lake Bottom, one of the most populous districts of Újbuda, which, of course, was voted down in the same way. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It's happened!]] But after a month or two, János Lázár also stood on a Government Info and announced that he would support the renovation of the St. Imre Church in New Buda. I therefore believe that it is not pointless to submit these amendments, even if they are all voted down by the pro-government Members; whether in this case, for example, the pro-government MEP from NewBuda, who also voted against this in an extremely unfair way. Dear Parliament, So what can we expect this year? The fact that the Hungarian Movement is re-submitting its constructive amendments to the budget, because in many respects a radical change is needed for a better future. Thank you for your attention. [[István Szabadi applauds.]]
u2023-06-14-24	Mr Péter Banai, Secretary of State, has made a statement, and I will give you the floor. Here you go.
u2023-06-14-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Madam President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to respond in five points to what the Member said. The first point, I understand, has also marked governance as a cause of economic difficulties. However, I think that if we look at international statistics, it is clear that Covid was primarily in 2020, which stopped the growth of the Hungarian economy, we are not talking about Hungarian specialities, but we are talking about the world economy, but Covid has suffered a great deal of damage in the world economy, which was greater than the economic downturn in 2008-2009, and then the Russian-Ukrainian war, which also reversed the economic development of Europe as a whole, including the performance of the Hungarian economy. In addition, it is worth evaluating that the Hungarian economy's catch-up to the European Union average has also been achieved during Covid, and we hope that growth will remain in a positive range this year, and that the planned 4 percent economic growth next year will also be a greater increase than the EU average. The other point is inflation; here, Mr President, there was a sentence that the state was interested in increasing inflation, because it will generate more revenue, while on the expenditure side only pensions were linked to inflation. That statement, allow me, Congressman, to strongly disprove it. Thus, the State has no particular interest in high inflation, for two reasons. On the one hand, we see that inflation kills economic growth. Well, you go into the store, you see the price changes, you buy less, you buy someone else, you drop the internal consumption. All statistics support this, both from global economic processes, from other countries and from Hungary. Thus, the first negative consequence of high inflation is through economic growth and thus through lower tax revenues. But as far as direct contact is concerned, I also have to argue with Congressman there. It is enough to look at the figures of recent months: on the expenditure side, pensions are not only linked to inflation, and I think it is a value that, whatever the situation is, pensions retain their real value at least, but also the government's interest expenditures have a strong link with the level of inflation. Thus, in the direct budgetary impact, we also see that the revenue surplus linked to inflation exceeds the direct expenditure surplus linked to inflation. Otherwise, if Mr President were right and the State had an interest in a high level of inflation, there would be no measures to reduce inflation. Let's look at what other countries have done in Europe. I think that the online price monitoring system that is now invigorating or, for example, the mandatory action that has recently been introduced, not to mention the measures that we have been using for a long time, see the reduction in overhead costs, is precisely aimed at achieving a level of inflation that can be tolerated once again. So, I repeat: inflation is not in the budget's interest, which is why, and in order to protect the population, the government has taken the measures to reduce inflation that have been discussed in recent weeks. The third point concerns the contribution to the EU budget. Yesterday, Vice-President, and now Member, also raised the possibility of not paying this nearly HUF 700 billion national contribution until we have all the EU funds. There are two things worth drawing attention to here. The first is that, under EU rules, where a Member State fails to comply with its payment obligation, a penalty rate may be applied immediately to that country. That's the legal part. The second question, which is also legal, is that if a country fails to comply with its payment obligation, the European Commission can deduct it from the resources to be transferred to the country. And what we need to be clear here is that we are not having a debate with the European Commission on all EU funds. For example, there is no debate on agricultural subsidies. If we put forward next year's budget proposal, we see that direct agricultural subsidies are a major contribution to farmers' land-based payments of HUF 627 billion. [[Nacsa Lőrinc Novák to the Fore: Take this.]] In addition, food prices... well, EU funds are available to increase efficiency. There is no debate with the European Commission, the Commission has approved and paid the rural development resources for the new period. So, turning back to inflation, if we also want to break food inflation by increasing the efficiency and competitiveness of the Hungarian food sector, we need to use rural development resources. Hungary has, in a unique way, radically increased the proportion of national funding linked to EU rural development resources to 80%, but if we did not meet the payment obligation to the European Union budget, then farmers would not be able to receive land-based support and we would not be able to finance our rural development programme. So at this point, the Hungarian economy receives more EU funds than it makes payments. The proposal made by the Member would jeopardise the payment of EU funds that are coming without delay. [[11.00]] I must also mention here that it is a joyful part that Hungarian payments are increasing, because it shows that the performance of the Hungarian economy is increasing. It also shows that, at the end of last year, the level of development of the Hungarian economy was nearly 78 percent compared to the average of the European Union. This was around 66 percent in 2010. And to refer back to the speech of Congressman Ferenc Dávid, the government expects that we will receive all the EU funds due to Hungary. So we see the solution not in the fact that we are opening new front lines that are hard to defend, but in closing existing conflicts, there we have a strong Hungarian interest in getting the EU bodies to get every single euro cent that belongs to Hungary as soon as possible. Section 4: Family support. I agree that, in the medium to long term, the most important issue of national strategy is not only social policy but also economic change in demographic trends and the continuation of the favourable trend seen after 2010. What means do we use to achieve this goal? I still think we need to be objective again. It is true that the family support system is changing, there are elements that get in, there are elements that get out. But Mr President, you have now drawn attention to the fact that the renovation programme ran out at the end of last year. Let us also add that we want to support energy efficiency investments by the private sector, families, from the EU funds that belong to Hungary, from these European Union funds. So there are programme elements that run out, some that enter. To say only national-funded elements: mothers under the age of 30 benefit. If women have children in 30 years, there is a greater chance that more children will be born in the family. So I'm asking you to appreciate that, too. However, the international outlook shows that the family policy plan of 2024 contained in the draft budget for next year is the richest, broadest and most supportive family policy system in Europe. I therefore suggest that all Members take this into account when deciding on the budget for next year. Finally, the military industry, the development of forces. Mr President, you know that, on the basis of the figures of next year's draft budget, the amount of defence expenditure exceeds 2%. This defence expenditure does not include the amount of resources allocated to the defence industry. So when the congressman talks about the need not simply to develop the force, it must be linked to an economic development programme [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That's what we're doing!]] Then he's banging open doors. I repeat, there are no defence expenditures in excess of 2 per cent, and you will find them in the chapter of the Ministry of Defence. For defence industrial tasks, capacity support, the Defence Innovation Research Institute Nonprofit Zrt. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of innovation in the Hungarian economy and more than HUF 95 billion for the financing of defence investment companies in the coming year. To be specific, we are not simply talking about the fact that today we are providing the purchase of weapons and machine weapons from abroad to the Hungarian Defence Office or other law enforcement agencies, but we have established a factory in Kiskunfélegyháza. In Zalaegerszeg, there is a serious development in a very serious development, as well as the instrument that will be produced again, we are talking about an ongoing investment, and I would like to say more locations where the development of the defence industry will take place. I therefore believe that, in addition to the challenges facing us, in addition to strengthening our defence industry, it is precisely this government that has taken and intends to take substantial steps in the areas that you criticize, whether it be family policy or defence, if the Parliament adopts next year's draft budget law. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-06-14-26	After Mr State Secretary's speech, we will return to the speakers who have been announced. In the framework of this, it will be Mr László Szászfalvi from the KDNP faction. Here you go.
u2023-06-14-27	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary is surrounded by a war environment today, and this represents a special responsibility for all of us, and a particular task and a particular challenge for the country. I think that our most important task, our most important shared responsibility, is that, despite such difficulties, we must protect our achievements in the last 10 to 12 years, the results, the achievements for which the Hungarian people have worked hard and for which the government and the government parties have done a great deal. Therefore, the draft budget for 2024 is the most important legislative instrument, opportunity to protect our achievements, the defence and the security budget, as humanly possible, of course, and I will note and add that defence, pensions, family support, employment and pension protection, maintenance and strengthening. Dear House, KDNP, as we say, is a family party, so it is vital for us to continue to ensure the predictability and security of our daily lives for families and older people through the budget. For this purpose, next year's budget includes a surplus of HUF 500 billion to raise pensions, cover the 13th month pension and possible pension premium. To ensure family support, the budget includes HUF 3300 billion. Let us also note that there has been a huge change compared to 2010. In the final budget of the left, in the 2010 budget, the Fidesz-KDNP government has provided HUF 935 billion in total for this area, i.e. the Fidesz-KDNP government strongly supports the Hungarian families, and we have achieved some 254 percent increase in budget support over the past period. This is particularly the highest level of family support for GDP in Europe. I have to mention briefly, my fellow Members have mentioned, too, the absence of youth under the age of 25. I also point out that our children, our young people, belong to our families, and I think it is safe to say that this also highlights the importance of protecting family support. In addition to supporting families, small civil communities, rural small settlements and the process of national reunification are the most important and highlighted areas for KDNP. Allow me first to briefly speak about the support of civil society organisations. There are more than 54 thousand civil society organisations in the classic sense in Hungary, of which more than 19 thousand foundations and more than 34 thousand associations. Supporting our budget is also a sure basis for their functioning. I would also like to mention that between 2010-21, the amount of resources that entered the civilian sector in terms of the level of state aid increased from HUF 144 billion to HUF 503 billion a year. The Hungarian NGO Fund, the National Cooperation Fund, had a budget of HUF 11 billion in 2023, and this will be approximately HUF 13.9 billion in the draft budget ahead. This NEA provides funding under civil society law for the support of civil society organisations, the creation of their operational foundations, the recognition of their socially useful and outstanding community-building activities, the promotion of their public interest and public benefit activities. The source of the NEA will also cover grants for the operation of civil society organisations and the implementation of their professional programmes through the tendering system, as well as through individual aid applications. [[11.10]] I would like to point out that in recent years two new forms of support have been introduced for civil society organisations: the Village Civil Fund and the Urban Civil Fund on the one hand. The Village Civil Fund will be implemented during the autumn of 2024 as part of the Hungarian village programme, and it is hoped that there will also be a billion HUF framework available for our civil society organisations. In the 2022 budget, civil society organisations received approximately HUF 5 billion in support through the Village Civil Fund. This means that approximately 1,500 successful and successful tenders out of more than 5900 tenders have been submitted. The Urban Civil Fund will also be set up with a budget of approximately HUF 5 billion over the next period, and in 2022 it was also available for civil society organisations operating in settlements over 10 thousand souls. Out of more than 5800 applications, 1000 proposals were available. The budget will continue to provide an opportunity to maintain and operate a network of civil community service centres. In addition to the details, these service centres provide a great deal of help to small civil communities and NGOs: they organise lectures, trainings, information and professional advice, as well as cooperation and contacts with cross-border civil society organisations, organise a national programme for high school students, and hold leadership training, publish publications, such as the "Civil Manual Guide for the Day-to-day operation of civil society organisations" and update them on a continuous basis, as well as country travel and various support programmes. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, The second area, which I would like to mention for some thought, is the support of our small settlements in rural areas, and I would like to mention in particular a few thoughts about the programme of the Hungarian village, in advance of the fact that the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments carried out conscious village and rural destruction policy in Hungary. Before 2010, municipalities and local authorities of small municipalities were forced to build up huge debts, and it was no accident that after 2010, the Fidesz-KDNP government took over approximately HUF 1400 billion of government debt between 2010 and 2013. In Hungarian: the Hungarian government, the civil government, paid the municipal debts, the debt mountains that our municipalities were forced to absorb during the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments. I would also like to mention that until 2010, there were nearly 400 small settlements where education was lost and 38 railway sidelines were stopped by the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments. The Fidesz-KDNP government, as I mentioned, took over this HUF 1400 billion debt sea and paid for it instead of the municipalities, among the first measures. After that, we launched and created the Hungarian village program, which, unlike the rural development programme of the left, reacted to real rural and small settlement problems, as these programs were not invented in an office in Budapest, but are written together with the municipalities and mayors of the Hungarian rural settlements, and we continue to refine and improve the application system for this program. The aim of the Hungarian village programme is to ensure that the quality of life can be achieved at the level of the basic services in every small settlement in Hungary as well as in the larger settlements. Over the past three and a half years, the government has spent more than HUF 1000 billion on the development of small settlements in the framework of the Hungarian village programme, and in four years it has enabled the development of nearly 1000 small-scale preschools and schools, and in 1700 settlements we have developed preschool playgrounds and public playgrounds within the framework of more than 2200 projects. I would also like to point out that over the past four years, we have supported the purchase of medical and protective equipment at 2,000 locations, and we have renovated more than 600 medical clinics in the last three and a half years. So if someone's talking about the health issue being ignored by the government, the health situation of small settlements is not dealt with by the government, then I think that's a very big lie. Since the introduction of the village CSOK, population growth has started again in more than 1,200 small settlements where there has been a decline in numbers. So I would like to underline this once again: the population growth has started again in over 1,200 small settlements in Hungary, a small rural village, where there has been a continuous decline in numbers. Dear colleagues, Ladies and gentlemen, Since 2019 we have renovated nearly 3,700 kilometers of public roads leading through small settlements and small villages in this program, the Hungarian village programme. I think this is also a very significant result, something has finally started, something has moved in the Hungarian countryside in terms of road renovations, which we have talked about so much, but nothing has happened for a long time. Despite the difficult economic situation, the government remains committed to supporting the Hungarian countryside and small settlements, so not only this year, but also the following year the Hungarian village programme will continue. And I would also like to mention that the Hungarian village program is part of the support, part of the operating support, part of the renovation and modernisation of the village shops. This means that in 2023 we provided more than HUF 8 billion in support to around 2800 small village shops, which will help us to keep these small shops, to preserve the ability to continue or continue the service there for the people living there. Ladies and gentlemen, The village CSOK is still supported by the government, it can now be used in 2631 settlements, and until 31 December 2024 the government extended this program. Ladies and gentlemen, To support more specifically the success of the Hungarian village programme, I would like to mention that in my constituency, Somogy County's constituency No.2 since the launch of the Hungarian village programme, more than HUF 6.5 billion of funding has been received since July 2019 and nearly 500 funded applications have been made within the framework of the various application sub-programmes. In recent years, applications included the construction, renovation, renovation of rural streets, sidewalks, bicycle roads, village houses, kindergartens and school buildings, renovation of medical clinics, purchase of village buses, construction of community spaces, development of sports infrastructure, construction or renovation of service apartments. In addition to the above, in 2020 and 2021, in 2022, there was more than HUF 400 million in funding for these small settlements in the Village Civil Fund for village NGOs operating in settlements of less than 5 thousand inhabitants. [[11.20]] Volunteer firefighter associations, civil warden associations, sports associations, arts, tradition, village construction and social work associations were able to purchase real estate, develop infrastructure, buy a new vehicle, and implement professional programs. In my constituency, there are 75 settlements where the village CSOK home creation discount is available. The Village Road Fund has been worth 2.5 billion forints since 2019 and road renovations have been implemented. Overall, I can say that the small settlements of my constituency over the last three and a half years have been more than ten thousand. [[Sic!]] Forints received government support from the framework of the Hungarian village. It can therefore be said that this programme is a historic rural development programme, which we intend to continue to keep, we intend to maintain, operate, and we want to continue to support the quality-of-life programmes of small rural settlements. Ladies and gentlemen, Last but not least, I would like to say a few thoughts about national policy and its budgetary implications, since national reunification and nation building are one of our most important strategic tasks and goals. As Prime Minister Viktor Orbán held the Hungarian Permanent Conference last November XX. The EESC said that strategic objectives should not be given up in crisis situations, and that is the strategic objective of national unification. The budget of 2024 is precisely the proof of this, and the resources involved in the cross-border Hungarians guarantee the continuation of national unification and nation-building. The process launched in 2010 and the programme, based on the draft ahead, will not only continue, but will get even more momentum. On the basis of the budget amounts, not only would they decrease, but the resources for Hungarians across borders could increase further compared to the previous year, and with this budget support we would like to maintain, maintain and ensure continuity and continuity of our achievements so far. The resources provided by the Bethlen Gábor Fund are doubled compared to the previous year's appropriations. One of the main reasons for this increase is the increase in education and student support. The amount of aid granted from 2002/2003 to all children participating in training in Hungarian was HUF 22 500 in the previous academic year, and from the academic year 2022/23 the amount of aid increased more than fourfold to HUF 100 thousand per year. In the next year's budget, the amount of this increased support is also guaranteed for the next academic year, with more than HUF 30 billion increasing or increasing budget support through this framework. It is very important that the continuous operation of the Hungarian institutional system abroad remains a top priority in national policy. Institutions and organisations which play a decisive role in the survival of Hungarian communities abroad will continue to receive permanent, predictable support under the programme of institutions of national importance, under which more than 90 external institutions, organisations and programmes can be financed each year. The application programme for the permanent support of Hungarian organisations and institutions from abroad has also been implemented since 2011. From 2023, Hungarian communities from abroad will receive HUF 2 billion each year in support of the programme called the Nation-Providing Programme, and through this support, besides education, culture, organizations performing ecclesiastical, youth and sports activities, as well as Hungarian organizations of diaspora, the Hungarian schools of the weekend. Since 2015, we have supported the establishment and strengthening of sister settlements in the Carpathian Basin in the framework of the sister settlement programme in the Carpathian Basin, which has led to the creation of more than a thousand sister settlement relationships, and every year this relationship system becomes stronger. The Unlimited Launched in 2011 will continue! program, which has enabled more than 500 thousand students from the motherland to take part in class trips across the border in Hungary, and the program allows young people to get acquainted, make friends, establish contacts with a foreign, Hungarian-inhabited region or institutions and young people living there. The continuation of the Kőrösi Csoma Sándor programme and the Petőfi Sándor programme is guaranteed in the budget, thanks to which Hungarian organisations in the diaspora and sporadic can receive permanent assistance through the work of the scholarships. The construction of a single Carpathian Basin space could continue, among other things, in the fields of culture, higher education, churches and agriculture. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to mention the cross-border economic development programme that we have launched in recent years concerning our cross-border national parts, which we have maintained continuously, in which we have provided more than HUF 200 billion in support to our cross-border parts of the nation, and we have been able to help more than 60 thousand Hungarian entrepreneurs and farmers and farmers, so that we have been able to provide them with a source of development and support that has helped significantly the survival and prosperity of our foreign parts of the nation. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, All these results must be taken into account and assessed in what external economic contexts they have been achieved and in what external circumstances we would like to preserve and maintain them. The KDNP therefore and therefore supports the draft budget, and we will therefore vote for it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-14-28	The next speaker from the Dialogue Group is Mrs Szabó Timea. Here you go.
u2023-06-14-29	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Now, as a Member of the Parliament of Óbuda-Békásmegyer, I would like to speak about next year's budget plan, because unfortunately, we see that in vain Óbuda-Békásmegyer is the sixth largest settlement in the country with nearly 130 thousand inhabitants. The district, not only doesn't get the district, but rather doesn't receive the support of the district residents, many points of the over 270 down development concern this district. You are constantly referring here yesterday to the fact that there are such times of war and there are times of war, which, of course, is true, only if we look closely at the budget you have submitted in 2024, it does not appear so. You are still saying that it is a family-friendly budget, while we know precisely that this is not a family-friendly budget, but a family-skinning budget. They keep getting lost, lost, and taken away from people, families, taking away from health care. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] They take away from education, they take away from families, while in Europe they have produced the highest inflation rate this year. It is also clear that there is no such thing as war inflation, as inflation in Romania bordering with Ukraine is 10 percent, while in Hungary it is 24.5 percent, but in Slovakia and Poland bordering with Ukraine it is only 14 percent, so it is less than half, in Romania it is almost one third, while otherwise they have a slightly larger border with Ukraine. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] [[11.30]] So you're lying when you're squeezing the families again to refer to the war, just so your friend Putin can flourish. [[Laszlo Szászfalvi laughs.]] Óbuda-Békásmegyer would also need a number of improvements that you have been promising for years and will not give or promise, even though you know precisely that 130,000 inhabitants would need these grants. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: What about the emergency room?]] One of these is the remediation of the Óbuda Gas Factory's territory. There, we know that for many decades there have been highly toxic substances in the soil, which we have asked of the government year after year, since 2010 to compensate, but we have not been able to do this, even though it was seen at a very low level of Danube water, as toxic substances are leaking into the Danube, leaking into the wells, and reaching drinking water. This would be one of the requests for this to be implemented in Obuda. Unfortunately, the more than 270 developments pulled down by János Lázár included the accessibility of the HÉV station in Békásmegyer and the subway. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Budapest!]] It's been 30 years. I'm telling Lawrence Nacs not to talk nonsense. [[Nacsa Lárinc: Watch!]] It's okay if you're not aware that the HÉV belongs to the MÁV, so it's a state. You can really numb each other with these cretins again, but it's a waste of time. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Home Care!]] The HÉV does not belong to Budapest, but I will say more: it is not only to the district, but to the government. So the government promised that there was a reason for the renovation of the HÉV among the state developments, which János Lázár pulled down with a loose feather motion, even though neither wheelchairs nor baby carriage mothers nor elderly sick people have been able to approach the HÉV stop for 30 years. I indicate that, even if it had belonged to Budapest, nothing happened during the regency of István Tarlós, and nothing happened during the 13-year-old district mayor of Balázs Bús in this case. Little mothers, families, elderly people, wheelchair users can't get close to a HÉV stop in the 21st century. In the century. Shame! Here, put this back into the upgrades. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Here's your emergency room reset.]] You say there is no money because of the war, but next year's budget for community wine marketing is HUF 3 billion. What is a community wine marketing for 3 billion forints when we talk about renovating schools and renovating hospitals being pulled out of development. Shame on you! [[Nacsa Lárinc: Watch! Watch out!]] But in the same way, the construction of the protection on the Roman shore is being postponed; it would cost HUF 25 billion for flood protection, which is also a state task. Here's how it's done. Similarly, Óbuda-Békásmegyer belongs to the preparation of the Pentecostal bath shower. We know very well that these lightning floods are flooding the area because of climate change. The rainporter is built in such a way that he can't hold that large amount of water, the sewage flows directly into the Danube. Now, I don't want to tell you that when this rainporter overflows, what we see is literally there on the coast of Rome and flowing through the Danube. There is also a great need for panel renovation. This has also been submitted by the Dialogue-Greens as an amending proposal, as has all of the above. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: We also need a doctor's appointment!]] Once again, the war has shown the need to continue the panel program in Óbuda-Békásmegyer, and many families are affected. Then, of course, there's health care. A few years ago, one day before New Year's Eve, you took HUF 3.5 billion from the Óbuda specialist clinics without any justification, and you didn't even refer to what. They took 3.5 billion forints with a pen stroke from 130,000 people's health care, and they didn't give it back. On behalf of the Dialogue-Greens, we will put this back into the budget and demand that we finally put this money back into health care, not the community wine marketing. But here's the thing: Lebanese Christian church is renovated with a billion and a half forints, but there's not enough to renovate the clinics. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Child Services!]] the so-called family-friendly, but we call it the family-skinning government. Annex III is amended in accordance with Annex III to this Regulation. Csobánka tér in the district should also be renovated for the purchase of money and equipment. Fortunately, this has been resolved by the municipality, but to do so, the government has to put back the money it has stolen from there. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: What about the children's clinic?]] And then let me get to the most up-to-date question of the renovation of the Veres Péter High School. You're lying, but even in 22 years, the Fidesz Balázs Bús, who lost badly in the parliamentary elections, promised and even photographed all sorts of plans for the renovation of the Veres Péter High School. Now, for Mihály Varga to be the individual MP there for years, he couldn't achieve anything in this case. Shame! In its own area, one of the best high schools in the country is constantly getting wet, and a few weeks ago, the ceiling broke down during class because it was soaked and a ceiling piece of almost a meter old fell off. But by the way, the rain last week caused the dining room to get wet and the hallways. You also set aside in the list drawn by János Lázár, the renovation of the Veres Péter High School was HUF 11 billion. Now we know this 11 billion is a little baroque, and they were trying to steal some of it. The Dialogue-Greens therefore restores the renovation of Péter Veres with a HUF 5 billion amendment proposal, and at least one comprehensive roof replacement and heating upgrade can be solved. There is no such thing as endangering the physical integrity of students and teachers, teaching in such a high school. You don't know, it's raining again when the ceiling's gonna pop on. The state is a high school maintainer. If there's an accident, anyone gets hurt, teacher, student, employee, whoever, you'll be responsible for that. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: What about the medical ward?]] They've given me 90 million forints so far, they've been absolving him, and then I just got the answer from Bence Rétvári, how good it is, because they finished fixing the roof, and the dining room got wet the next week. So let's be fair about steering, not on Lebanese churches, not on wine marketing, not on the maintenance of National Sports, spending 1.3 billion forints, not on buying a broken office building in Bosnyak Square to save it! For 244 billion HUF, the state buys the office building from István Tiborcz, our money, in order to prevent the husband of Viktor Orbán's daughter from getting a little worse. Now, this is the true godfather government, honourable Members, that they do not look at the interests of the Hungarian people, they do not look at the interests of the inhabitants of Óbuda-Békásmegyer, but at the best of the Orbán family. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Child Services!]] As a representative of Óbuda-Békásmegyer, I would like to ask you once again and call on you to put these improvements back, plan them into the budget, and finally govern them for the good of the people. Thank you. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Will you be on medical duty in Obuda?]]
u2023-06-14-30	The next speaker from the Fidesz faction is Mr Kristóf Szatmáry. There you go. I'll give you the floor.
u2023-06-14-31	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear House, Dear Parliament, I must tell you frankly that I wanted to devote my speech to the view of the budget for next year on small and medium-sized enterprises, but while there is Szabó Timea, I would like to correct [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Everything's fine with the emergency room.]] That's why I'm taking this opportunity at the beginning of my speech. You said that the ministry led by János Lázár would have pulled down the development of HÉV. That's just not true! The congresswoman will show you the government decision where they would have stopped. [[Timea Szabó: János Lázár told me in person!]] I'm only saying this because my own district is affected by the development of HÉV. My district is also affected by the development of HÉV, and... [[Szabó Timea: Until 2026 there will be no cutting!]] Excuse me, Congresswoman, I've been listening to you. It hasn't been easy. I would say in public that that is simply not true. The government has not stopped planning to develop the HÉVs in Budapest. [[Szabó Timea: Then when will it be?]] Congresswoman, it will be when you do not block domestic money in Brussels with your blessed activities, because these development of the VAT would take place, among other things, from EU sources. [[11.40]] So if the congresswoman is concerned about the renovation of the HÉVs in Budapest, then I suggest that they change their activity in Brussels in the first place, so that Hungary can obtain the resources that it is able to spend, as a result of its spending, at my place, in accordance with Article XVI of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In the district, but also in your constituency, Obuda, this development is to be completed. I'm just saying that for clarity. I would like to go back to my original point on what is worth talking about in relation to the evaluation of the budget for 2024 and, in particular, in relation to small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. We should start by saying that the crisis-proofness of the Hungarian economy has, fortunately, increased much over the last decade. Employment, we see, is at a record level, unemployment is low, public finances are stable, while the Hungarian tax system is considered among the most competitive. Nevertheless, we also see and appreciate it, and we know that it has been necessary that, since the outbreak of the war, the government has helped and helped Hungarian businesses, among other things, with the support of energy intensive small and medium-sized enterprises, with a factory rescue programme, tax reliefs and credit programmes. It is already clear that, taking into account the budget for 2024 or evaluating the fact that the EU has responded to the armed conflict that occurred last February, unfortunately, with inadequate sanctions. This has resulted in the release of energy prices in addition to inflation, which has caused a serious blow to the European economy as a whole and thus also impairs the competitiveness of the continent and Hungary in it. Although the lifting of sanctions could reduce the economic situation in Europe, there seems to be no willingness to do so in Brussels. For this reason, over the past period, the government has been working hard to avoid next year's recession with further economic policy measures, which, by the way, is quite likely in many countries of Europe this year and can return to the path of steady-state growth as soon as possible. In order to achieve these objectives, two things are essential: Hungarian businesses must be protected and public finances should be operated on a reserve basis. That's what we're seeing, and that's what's coming back in next year's budget. In these times of war, we need a budget that, in addition, guarantees security, protects families, pensions, jobs, reduces costs and protects small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. It's the defense budget. Since national governance, Hungary has achieved an economic turnaround and has succeeded in bringing the economy on a growth path. This is also a particularly great achievement because it is always worth seeing where we started, it is worth examining the results of the failed economic policy of previous left-wing governments, that we had to bring our country back practically from the brink of bankruptcy. We can remember well, and in connection with such a budget it is good to remember and remind how Ferenc Gyurcsány and his government destroyed the country between 2002 and 2010 and a significant part of domestic businesses in it. The economy has been taxed, the economy has been put on the brink of bankruptcy, unemployment has been doubled, families and Hungarian employers have been taxed to death, pensions have been taken away, VAT on food products has been doubled, many utility services have been tripled. The Hungarian people either worked for hunger or lived on welfare. The price of extreme and misguided economic policy was introduced in Hungarian people and in Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises with a series of restrictions. Obviously, that wouldn't be very different now. With the budget submitted in 2024, our main aim is to keep the progress achieved over the past ten years despite the epidemic and the war situation, with record levels of employment, unemployment remains low, and we can count on this in 2024, so that high-level stable employment can reach new peaks next year, as we hope. We know from experience that work can only be the basis for the welfare of Hungarian families and the development of the economy. Over the last decade, the number of people employed has risen by about 1 million to 4.7 million, while labour reserves have been constantly exhausted, falling from 740 thousand to about 300 thousand. The Hungarian economy did well in 2022, increased by 4.6 percent, and our goal, as I said, is perhaps to avoid a decline in Europe as few as possible. Stability is key in the current crisis situation and the budget presented is therefore committed to keeping responsible management and deficit targets. The Hungarian government has also implemented one of the largest tax reductions and economic whitening in Europe since 2010. The more efficient collection of taxes has enabled tax reductions, which also makes the Hungarian economy more crisis-resistant. The budget submitted is committed to the tax reductions introduced earlier, as it follows the basic rules that we have already followed, that the taxes should not be increased, but the low ones should be collected. Again, this attitude is strongly opposed to the fiscal policy of the left-wing governments before 2010, which has made budget planning virtually unpredictable for companies in Hungary, tax changes within the year, the rewriting of basic tax rates, the introduction of new structural taxes, not to mention that the public authorities considered the vast majority of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary to be virtually potential criminals and milk cows. Moreover, the budget of 2024 provides more than HUF 3000 billion of domestic funding for priority investments and developments. The budget will continue to aim at achieving economically and socially significant investments, paying particular attention to the coordination of investment-related resource requirements, budget deficit targets and sovereign debt reduction requirements. According to the statistics of the Statistical Office, in the first quarter of 2023 there was an annual decline in investment, as in Europe, but it is very positive news that the rate of investment in the first quarter of 23 has increased by almost 1 percent on a quarterly basis. In addition to this, this has actually been done in the context of a significant fall in public investment, which means that, in this period, we can see basically market-based investments. This means, in particular, a tangible and significant degree of investment in real estate, manufacturing, vehicle manufacturing and agriculture. In order to continue Hungary's economic convergence, to keep families and jobs safe and to prevent recession in 2023, this investment dynamic and export-based economic policy must be further strengthened. This is also the purpose of the government's programmes, such as the Baross Gábor reindustrialisation loan scheme, the capital programme and the Széchenyi card programme, which made more than HUF 3100 billion of liquidity available to businesses. They can make a significant contribution to the economic policy goal that I think is clearly important for the country, adding the interest-stop institution. The Hungarian government's measures are also recognised by the markets and international organisations, as our country continues to maintain the recommended classification for investment with credit rating agencies, and Hungary is the first in the EU tax reduction ranking today. [[11.50]] This relates to the fact that the competitiveness of the Hungarian tax system is found in the first ten OECD countries. As a whole, given the situation of Hungarian SMEs, we can say that the budget for 2024 also basically aimed at helping small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary and helping them to stay on the surface in the present situation. I would say that perhaps the worst is beyond the Hungarian economy. A year ago, I remember that many people were afraid of a very serious bankruptcy wave in Hungary. Fortunately, this has been cancelled, and given the current economic trends, it is now unlikely that it will occur. This does not mean, however, that the government has no business and responsibility with regard to domestic businesses, and there are measures beyond the budget that can be taken even in a budgetary way, but can decisively affect the competitiveness of domestic businesses. For example, the issue of public utility contracts concluded at the end of last year has forced many entrepreneurs to conclude various public utility contracts that, since then, may have been an unjustified burden on their side. According to our knowledge, the government examines how it can remedy this. Indeed, such measures and such tasks will still be very important questions for the Hungarian economy and its role in the situation of domestic businesses. It is also a question of how and how we will be able to rethink measures previously envisaged in a previous economic growth situation which represent a certain administrative burden for domestic businesses. I am thinking, for example, about the introduction of the NTAK system. The transformation and reflection of these in the current situation will be the task of this year, in addition to this next year's budget, I think that we must and would like to support it from the point of view of domestic businesses. So what I can say overall, by analysing next year's budget, is that we can have no doubt that the government remains committed to sustaining economic growth, protecting the results achieved so far, reducing the ratio of public debt, reducing the stability of public finances and protecting domestic families, domestic workers and especially small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. That is why we are supporting next year's budget. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-14-32	The next speaker is Congressman László Keresztes, from the LMP faction. Here you go.
u2023-06-14-33	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, We can say that every year the budgetary debate is the most important debate between the walls of the Parliament, as it gives us the opportunity to distinguish between real action or real plans and intentions from what they say, say, on various propaganda channels. We can hear various government communication elements, communication panels, but at the same time, if we look at the numbers that you put into this budget, we can see what's well founded and what's not. It is very important that, in addition to the need to strive, we must strive to talk about specific matters, to ask specific questions, where appropriate, to which I am preparing for Mr Secretary of State, and to talk about the other side of what we are reading from the budget at the level of numbers, what is projected, therefore, from the present situation, from the current state of affairs, what kind of vision it will project to the Hungarian nation, Hungary. I listened, didn't I, this morning at 8:00 a.m., to the debate, perhaps with one or two exceptions, to all the speeches, and it was rather disappointing to see the trend. Basically, the speeches by the leading pro-government speakers were insanely 80-90 percent about government performance before 2010, and let us immediately add that a significant proportion of opposition speakers, who already had government responsibilities before 2010, tried to polish their own, otherwise terrible, governance. It follows that both the government side and a number of opposition speeches were basically described as such a party-political smear, and there was little mention of the current situation, and there was no mention of what kind of vision the government's draft budget would give here. What we think, what we think is important, what the Green Party of LMP-Hungary wants to achieve, and we want to contribute accordingly to the budgetary debate, are the most important goals, in our belief, for the Hungarians to ensure that they remain in the homeland, so that Hungarians do not have to emigrate, so that young Hungarians can start a family and have as many children as possible. It is important that a patriot economic policy is implemented based not on cheap mass products delivered from the Far East or from anywhere, but to the greatest extent possible to meet the different needs here on the ground. We want to see an economic policy that does not serve the interests of foreign profits and which fully takes into account that one of the important pillars of the nation's survival is that we can preserve and protect our natural resources. It is very important for the countryside to finally have a real career in development. It is very important that the infrastructure that is in ever worse can finally be developed and the public services that are now due to collapse in many respects, or that are in a state of collapse, can be provided to all Hungarians at every point in the country. I'm going to talk about this in a little bit more detail. At the same time, what we are seeing now, and what can be seen not only from government decisions, but also from next year's budget, is that it will continue, and even boost, the service of foreign profit interests, we can say, is serving great authority interests. It is amazing the kind of government policy, the government's ambition, that, after hundreds of thousands of people were forced to migrate to Hungary because of living problems, because of low wages, Hungarians now want to invite hundreds of thousands of foreign migrant workers into the country. It is amazing that they continue to spend an amazing amount of money on infrastructure development serving foreign interests, while in many places, especially in rural areas, the infrastructure is in a terrible state, and you can see both from the budget and government plans and from the statements of key politicians in the government that you continue to ignore our natural resources, our drinking water and the soil. Let us look at exactly what will happen if this budget is adopted in this way and what effects it will have on our country. Here, let me give you a specific example. Here in the introduction, it has been said several times, and in the debates over the last few days, that you want a patriot budget. We have heard from Minister Lazarus here in the debates over the last few days that they want a patriot investment policy. But this cannot be achieved if this approach, the national approach and national commitment are fundamentally lacking in the country's decision-making on economic policy and, more specifically, in the government's decision-making on economic policy. Let me give you an example: I think Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa expects me to mention this example. Next year's budget includes the development of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line with HUF 103 billion. This year's budget includes 192 billion. We know that this is a project that, we can say, fully serves Chinese interests, which will overall be close to 1000 billion, which will cost the Hungarian taxpayers 1000 billion. This project is about serving Chinese interests, allowing them to transport cheap mass products from the Far East through Hungary and Hungary to Europe, let's say. Otherwise, these loans will be built on Chinese credit from Hungarian taxpayers' sources, paying off an infrastructure for which there is no economic exploitation guarantee. Now, I am not talking about technical content in the absence of time, but which is clearly not for patriot economic policy. And for this, as I have already mentioned, HUF 103 billion will be spent in the next year's budget, while this amount is a multiple of the amount that will be used for the development of the public supply system for drinking water for Hungarian people, for example. So we can say that you spend the Hungarian taxpayers' money on countless gigantic investments that are specifically lacking in public services and improvements that must serve the everyday lives of Hungarian people. And you can also see the industrial strategy that we already have the effects of what this industrial strategy will mean for Hungarians. [[12.00]] It is shocking, in fact, it is not even clear how much money you want to spend on bringing in foreign battery companies, especially in the Far East. Only in the case of investments in Debrecen can we see that more than 300 billion are being spent to meet the infrastructure needs of these factories, many times the amount that is included in the budget to finance the similar provision of tasks and services to the Hungarian population. These companies are lured here with huge state subsidies, served in many respects, and invited to work in these factories for hundreds of thousands of foreign migrant workers, so they do not create these jobs for the Hungarians. They give these companies different discounts so that they can take out the profits, and you practically put your hands up, under conditions that violate the rules, you can use our natural resources, you can use our water resources. This is all, but not patriotic economic policy, everything but the representation of Hungarian national interests. This is going to have some pretty amazing effects. Because of this industrial policy, you want to increase Hungary's electricity supply by 55 percent by 2030, so you want to make the Hungarian people pay for their energy generation capacity when we already need to import electricity and we are experiencing an energy crisis. But you can see that this industrial policy will have a shocking effect on the protection of our water resources, the Hungarian water resources. And then I'm going to go over this perhaps most important question. It is absolutely clear, and even at the level of words, you do not deny that water is essential for life itself, and for the future of the Hungarian nation, so that we can ensure healthy drinking water, that we can protect our groundwater, that we can protect our surface waters, that water supply should always be guaranteed, and that we can achieve water management that would ultimately lead to sustainable, ecological water management instead of drying the country, a landscape water retention. But look at one of the outstanding elements of this important target system, the water utilities system! I also draw attention year after year to the budgetary debate and, in the period between the two budgetary debates, to the fact that the water utility system for the supply of drinking water is on the brink of collapse. We have now come to the point where, at least at the level of words, the Prime Minister recognises the importance of this. I asked the Prime Minister three immediate questions on this matter within two and a half years. At first he denied the problems a little bit, the second time he acknowledged that there was a shortage of resources of a thousand billion, and last time, perhaps two months ago, he acknowledged that the amount that was missing in the medium term was really 3000 billion or above the amount that was needed to secure the most important public service in Hungary. Well, there's a government effort to practically blackmail the cities, blackmail the municipalities, so that if they donate the urban water utilities to the government without paying, then they can get support, and then they can get substantial help for the failed reconstruction work. Well, you can see that even cities that have decided to hand over the water supply are being deceived because there are no funds in the budget that are necessary. What is the situation, what is the situation in which this very, very important sector is now: before 2010, it is clear that there was a scandalous political and governmental attitude to water utilities, which, by the way, are now being tried mainly by DK politicians in some way to make them look a little nicer, but it is clear that the sector was in a very difficult situation in 2010 too, so heritage was very difficult. But, ladies and gentlemen, after 2010, the number of failures in the water utility system doubled. Today, the proportion of water systems with an appropriate rating is below 20 percent. The network loss is close to 25 percent nationwide, with much larger examples at local level and much more astonishing numbers, but overall it is close to 25 percent. So 25 percent of the drinking water produced is drained without use. Unfortunately, we have to say that, due to the withdrawal of funds, there is an increasing amount of money available for maintenance, preventive maintenance, so we can say that the amount needed to improve this system is increasing exponentially, it can be replaced in the right places, and you simply do not create this resource. So in order to stop this system, only the further demise of this system, from this year's budget, it would have been necessary to plan around 300 billion more than the current figures, and the budget for next year also lacks about HUF 300 billion. But I would add that this is only enough to carry out a fire-fighting task. So it needs enormous help not only from the state, but also from local government companies, because of the runaway overhead prices, so that they can operate, create the basis for their economic operation, and for reconstruction work, it would require a hundred billion-dollar amount of resources. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] If you read the budget numbers, you can see that the government doesn't provide a fraction of this. So while a few billion are being spent to provide support for maintenance work in the water utility system, multiples of this are spent on the water supply of up to one battery-producing investment. We are thinking of the example in Göd, here too they spend more than 30 billion, they spend 30 billion for the development and expansion of the Göd battery plant, they also spend more than 30 billion for the construction of water utilities in the case of Iváncsa, while they only spend a few billion forints to support the maintenance work of the utility system providing drinking water for the entire Hungarian population. That's pretty amazing. It could be long-standing, however, that, in many cases, the related budget lines show a decrease even compared to this year, so we can say that the sector is in a worse position, while everyone knows precisely that this most important public service is already in a critical situation. The Prime Minister spoke about the last time I asked him a question about recognising the gravity of the problems, but it might be possible to raise funds in 2024. Well, we do not see these resources, and we must also say that you are mistaken, Prime Minister, if you think that this public service can stay on the surface. I would add that it is not a solution at all to take away this utility property from the municipalities with a decision, to take it into the hands of the state, since there is no source, it has not been designed to carry out these important works by means of state decisions. I would add, however, that we consider it a fundamental national interest that the important infrastructure, the water utility, should always be in national hands, but at least in the hands of the state. So what we consider to be an extremely flawed policy, which we saw in many places before 2010, is that these important resources have been privateised. We can see that in connection with the nationalization plans Budapest, Pécs, Debrecen, Nagykanizsa, Szombathely, Szeged and many other cities have said that they will not surrender the water utility assets. But these municipalities, these cities, must be helped from the central budget so that the proper maintenance work can start. By the way, it was the Fidesz mayor of Debrecen who made it very clear that this was a critical infrastructure that the municipality could not give away. He even said that the pro-government mayor of Debrecen and the resolution of the General Assembly did not see the guarantee that the government could solve this task. Well, I think that every city that has decided not to hand over this important infrastructure to the government and not to give out this important public service has made a wise decision, Mr. Secretary of State, because you simply allow this public service to collapse on the basis of the current budget plan. By the way, we, the LMP faction, are presenting a budget amendment proposal by the deadline in order to ensure that this does not happen. I would like to talk very briefly about one more important issue in the field of water. We all know, but many people don't talk about how bad the water management concept is now. Basically, water drainage is carried out as quickly as possible instead of water retention. Here, a fundamental change is needed, the waters must be preserved, but water must be kept not in concrete beds, but in the landscape, in the landscape. This implies a very, very serious cooperation between agriculture, the agricultural sector, water authorities, water professionals and politicians, policy makers. At the same time, even if it is not incredibly significant, it also requires a certain amount of resources, such a change of perspective, so that water has a place in the landscape, and this also implies a different use of landscapes. Well, we don't see that as a source of budget. So if we look only at the budgetary resources of the water boards, the water authorities, we can see that there are still several points falling compared to this year. By the way, irrigation, which is not considered to be a sufficient or satisfactory solution in this respect, even its resources are being reduced. There are many references to the development of irrigation in the agricultural purse here in the parliamentary debates, even though we know that 1-2 percent of the areas are now being watered, and the plans are only about 6 percent. So it should be clear to everyone that casting cannot treat dryness on the landscape level, so basically water should be able to get into the landscape. This, on the one hand, has decision-making limits. [[12.10]] It is recognised in more and more forums that this is necessary, but we do not see decisions based on next year's budget or next year's budget, and we do not see the figures in next year's budget. And we could talk about this for a very long time, but we would like to mention a few more issues in any case. The issue of public transport has also been raised in today's debate. I would basically like to talk about the state of transport development and transport in rural areas, especially in support of local public transport in rural cities. This is also a very important public service, on which we can say that it is unlikely that a single rural city will be able to solve this fully on its own. At the time of Minister Palkovics, there was a government decision that defined it as a task for the Minister to prepare a model of public support for local public transport. Then I asked him about this, and it turned out that he had not done his job, Minister, and then shortly after the government's proposal, the Parliament decided to take away the support of local transport from rural cities, and he said that this must be resolved first from local tax revenues. So virtually all rural cities have been abandoned by local public transport, otherwise extremely expensive, but also very important. And what we see is that you do not want to change that, Mr Secretary of State, you do not want to increase the items from which you can carry out these tasks, so you do not want to give back the support to local public transport and public transport in rural cities, which is shocking. And I would add that this is once again the result of a decision, or a failure to act, that this will have an extremely negative impact on all cities, all affected citizens. So practically every city, every rural city, is punished, Mr. Secretary of State. I would also like to say one more important indicator to talk about the specifics: the development of rural transport infrastructure, the development of lower roads. You can see that you talk a lot about how important this is and how much action you take, but if you look at the numbers again, you can see that this does not appear in the budget. The fact at present, Mr Secretary of State, is that, for the entire road network, 15 thousand kilometres are the length of the wrong roads and of the poor quality, so 15 thousand kilometres of roads are waiting for immediate renovation, and the side roads are considered to be the two worst categories for a length of 5600 kilometres. Compared to this, the budget line for this year's budget could be reduced, from which the maintenance of these roads could be carried out. So there will be more and more roads that can no longer be renovated, but that should be practically rebuilt, and this will again increase the amount of missing resources to an astonishing extent. I repeat, it is basically about the situation of the lower roads in rural areas, which I am about to say. And it has to be said that the 2010 heritage was difficult here too, the inheritance is clear, but every year, if you look at this statistics, unfortunately, in the 13th year of your governance, there is an increasing proportion of roads and side roads that are of poor quality. Well, that's all I wanted to say briefly in the time frame at my disposal. The LMP will, of course, submit the necessary budgetary amendments to remedy the problems that are currently listed. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2023-06-14-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next pre-notified speaker was Mr Ritter Imre, Member of the national minority.
u2023-06-14-35	[[???Köszönöm. Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parlament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich heute im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten meine gestrige, 20-minütige Rede bezüglich des Gesetzentwurfs Nr. T/4181 über den ungarischen Haushalt 2024 im Zusammenhang mit dem Nationalitätenbedarf übergreifende Teilen fortsetze.???]] Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Hungarian Nationalities, to continue today my comment on the 20 minutes of yesterday's T/4181. In relation to the proposal for a central budget law No 1 relating to its nationalities. At its meeting on 12 June 2023, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary adopted its opinion on T/4181. About bill No. 1. In the general debate of yesterday's bill on the central budget of 2024, my first twenty-minute contribution was intended to complete the very positive changes that occurred in the eight years between 2014 and 2022, following the provision of the parliamentary representation of indigenous nationalities in Hungary. I concluded by saying that on behalf of the 13 indigenous nationalities living in Hungary, I must thank the Hungarian government in the first place without reservation, since all positive decisions were theirs, but the entire Hungarian Parliament, each former and present Member of Parliament, has been given nationality support over the last eight years, with which less than 4 billion grants in 2014 rose to nearly HUF 24 billion in 2022, nearly six times. At the same time, I also stressed that in the past seven or eight decades, many of the actions, omissions and crimes of the Hungarian nationalities cannot be corrected and corrected by the results of the seven or eight years. This takes decades. The last eight years have been enough to take that path, to launch national minority programmes that we hope will ensure the survival of indigenous nationalities and the survival of our nationality. Unfortunately, the Covid crisis in 2020-2021, and then the tragic war situation in 2022, the energy crisis, increasingly severe inflation, have broken this positive progress in nationality and has intensified several negative processes that I have already predicted in the negotiations on the budget bill of 23 years. We knew that we would have significant additional costs in several areas, despite this, understanding the problems facing our country, our role in this, we accepted that, in 2023, there would be no increase in national minority support, as in 2021, in the Finance Act, and even in 2023 there was a significant reduction in subsidies. Compared to 2022, the central fiscal law of 2023 already reduced HUF 1 billion for 13 nationalities by HUF 63.1 million. This decrease has already increased to HUF 2 billion to HUF 351.7 million by this year's amendment to the Budget Act of 2023. I would like to stress that this has nevertheless been accepted by all 13 nationalities in a uniform and agreed manner, and we have taken note of this. However, the budget bill of 2024 that we are looking at now contains a reduction in national minority support of HUF 3 billion 840.3 million compared to 2022. This planned reduction would lead to a reduction of 5% in Roma ethnicity subsidies and 25 percent in other nationalities. It makes the situation even more serious, that this drastic withdrawal would almost entirely result in additional operating and stockpiling support from national minority institutions, if, in 2022, it would leave only 45.4 million operating grants and 215.7 million stockpiling subsidies, i.e. a total of 261.1 million, which is less than 9 percent of HUF 3 billion in 2022. So you'd deduct 91 percent of it. I think that these two numbers alone indicate that this is a disproportionately unjustified withdrawal, which makes it impossible for 102 ethnic public education institutions and dozens of ethnic cultural institutions maintained and owned by national authorities. [[12.20]] Here, I would like to emphasise and draw attention to the fact that the minority public education institutions and ethnic cultural institutions maintained by the national authorities are in a much smaller and more specific position for funding. If you look at maintenance groups, the Klebelsberg Centre is first the largest public education institution supporter, which is financed from the budget partly on a normative and partly on a task basis, and the necessary additions can be settled by the government through the transfers provided by the Central Budget Act, and Klebelsberg also has free transfers between the individual institutions. Secondly, the public education institutions maintained by local local authorities are primarily and typically kindergartens, where public normative support can be complemented by local authorities' needs, needs and potential incomes, both in terms of liquidity and in terms of budgetary coverage. Thirdly, the ecclesiastical public education institutions, which receive the same normative support as the minority-reserved public education institutions, will also be accounted for at the end of the year, and the necessary compensation will be covered from the central budget, which, by the way, we fully agree with. However, in the case of public education institutions maintained by local and national minority authorities, besides normative support, the maintainer does not have an additional option, since he does not have his own income and there is no accounting for the end of the year similar to that of the church. However, the task taken over from the State of public education is, of course, to ensure that the extra costs that have been proven are covered exclusively by the State in the case of additional operating costs, as in the case of the necessary maintenance and renovation costs. Funding is a state task. I don't know how you know this, but I'm telling you: the entire annual operating support of a local minority government, which is the owner of the building and building stock of these institutions, is 520 thousand HUF or 1 million 40 thousand HUF, depending on whether fewer than one hundred persons are registered in the locality. In addition, all other revenue for local minority authorities comes from tenders, targeted grants, which cannot be used for other purposes. There is no objective way that national authorities, as institutional supporters, can deal with the funding difficulties and problems of the institutions of millions, tens of millions of people, with their own income and opportunities. For this reason, in order to manage the institution-by- institution financing of the variable amounts of the additional operating and maintenance costs, often every year, we have sought every year from the start of the institution transfers in 2013, to have an institutional framework for operational and stockpiling, from year to year, from which we have tried to resolve the year-to-year difficulties on the basis of specific needs and assessments, which I think has worked well in recent years, in peace times. Now, however, within a year, the entire compensation framework would essentially be withdrawn, which is a fundamental threat to the functioning of the national minority public education institutions that have been taken over. We are talking about 102 educational institutions, responsible for educating and educating nearly 15,000 children. The Committee of Hungarian Nationalities is expected to initiate an amendment, taking note of the withdrawal of HUF 2 billion to HUF 351.7 million in the budget for the year 2024 in the Budget Act of 2023 and its amendment. Chapter 31/4 is replaced by a withdrawal of HUF 1 billion of HUF 568.9 million. So we are not asking for an increase, we are asking only for the already significantly reduced framework of 23 years. In the course of the amendment of the 2023 Budget Act at the beginning of the year, I have already indicated that they are in several areas, and we will have significant additional costs. Unfortunately, the events of the past few months have confirmed our earlier predictions. There are at least three important areas with significant additional costs which require central action in the budget year 23, which are as follows. The first is, of course, to ensure that the additional cost of energy is covered. For the fourth quarter of 2022, the national authorities and their national minority public education institutions received some HUF 405 million in additional energy cost compensation, which we thank for. In the field of technical management, it was very positive that, although it was compensation for the number of children, within the envelope, the aid could be adapted to the actual needs taking into account the specialities of the institutions they maintained between the local self-governments. In 2023, we thanked the Government Decree and its amendment, which allowed the gas pricing of national authorities and their reserved public education institutions. On 27 April 2023, 1161/2023 was published. Government Decision No 2023 on the one-off additional budgetary support for public education and vocational training institutions maintained by national authorities in 2023. We have also carried out a detailed, institutional survey of the specific compensation needs in the first half of 2023, and we are waiting for the Treasury to take action to transfer up to HUF 450 million of energy compensation to ensure the source. The second area of serious concern is the financing of the costs of mass catering. We have already completed a specific survey per institution for more than 4,500 children of the 27 ethnic public education institutions maintained by the 9 national self-governments, on actual catering revenues and expenditure in 2021 and 2022. On this basis, it is an objective fact that funding of HUF 126 million was missing in 2021, which increased nearly to HUF 247 million in 2022. Seeing the first five months of inflation in the second half of 2022 and this year, including food inflation, the 27 public education institutions maintained by the 9 national governments will have a deficit of some 350-400 million in the year 2023. The survey is currently under way on 75 national minority public education institutions maintained by 55 local minority self-governments, where the deficit and the additional costs will also be around half a billion forints in scale. Here, too, we should stress the need for a significant increase in the basic norm, but it is necessary, at least in the area of nationality, on the basis of a case-by-case assessment, because there are significant positive or negative differences from the average in some institutions. [[12.30]] The third large area is the provision of resources to increase the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage and the sectoral bonus for teachers. In this respect, until 1 January 2023, the government settled the wage coverage of the increase with the April 2023 normative for non-state non-government public education institutions, and this will be covered monthly. We believe that this issue has been resolved with satisfaction in the position of educator. We have also fully assessed the additional costs of the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage increase of non-educatorial staff of ethnic minority public education institutions over the past four years, and this is being discussed with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Public Education, and hopefully will be resolved once the necessary compensation needs have been finalised. To sum up, in the three priority resource-intensive areas, compensation for energy and wage developments was made for 2023 or pro rata terms, and it is assumed that it will also take place in 2024 to the extent necessary, but at the same time it is absolutely necessary for a government measure to be taken on public catering. In addition to these three priority resource areas, of course, the shoes are squeezed in several other places, but they are not comparable to the previous three, we are trying to solve them in our own jurisdiction and get through these periods. The other key areas of the life and functioning of indigenous nationalities in Hungary, which have not been affected by reductions in subsidies in 2023 and in the budget law of 2024, are of a different quality, so the weight of the problems and tensions that arise here will be discussed with you tomorrow by Bulgarian advocate Varga Simeon, President of the Sub-Committee on Local Government, Foreign Affairs and Budget of the NEB, such as the promotion of national minority self-governments and ethnicity media, support for national minority self-governments and their reserved institutions, support for local and regional minority self-governments, and professional support for nationality. On this basis, the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities is expected to initiate an amendment by taking note of the HUF 2 billion withdrawn in the 2012 Budget Act and its amendment in the budget of HUF 351.7 million, in the budget of 2024. Chapter 31/4 Further withdrawal of HUF 1 billion 568.9 million should be restored to support national minority institutions in order to ensure the functioning of national minority public education institutions maintained by national authorities. With all due respect, I would like to ask you to support our amendment. Thank you very much for your attention. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit! [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-14-36	Thank you very much, Congressman Ritter Imre. Dear Parliament, The independent Member is not present, so we are moving to two minutes, and then the second round of speakers will continue to speak. Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, Christian Democratic People's Party, asks for two minutes.
u2023-06-14-37	Thank you, Mr. President. I would have listened to the thoughts of the betterman, DK, in the budget debate. [[Z Kárpát, Dániel: Let's just stick with DK.]] In the last few hours, ladies and gentlemen here on the left, you have reduced your weight, you are trying to deny it, and you are trying to play a little down the subject of war in our neighbourhood, that it is not the same situation as it was four to five to six years ago, that there is a war, that there is a sanctioned response to what we think is wrong, that the European economy may be forced to recession, that there are constantly signs around us from the European economy that clearly do not allow the same posture, and that it is not right to take on the same posture as in the years of wealth in high economic growth. After all, we have achieved 7.2 percent economic growth in a post-pandemic situation, and the impact-resistant ability of the Hungarian economy cannot be the subject of the debate. I would be happy if you would participate in this debate on the basis of the facts and figures, not on the basis of your feelings and feelings against the government, because the budget is made up of numbers, and yes, there is fact in the defence budget. There is also more money in a defence budget for many key areas than in 2010, when you bankrupted the country, but also compared to 2023. I wanted to respond to Szabó Timea because he talked about Obuda and Frog County. They've shut down the 24-hour adult on-call service. I'd like to ask you when the council will reopen. They stopped, they didn't do anything to the children's clinic, because in the Healthy Budapest program, the government financed the children's clinic building, but they can't install it, and they won't start it. Trees are constantly cut down in the name of the greens, constantly spoiling Óbuda's air, constantly making it difficult and taxing the people who live there. I'm asking him to answer those questions. Thank you very much.
u2023-06-14-38	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I give the floor to Congressman Erik Bánki for two minutes, Fidesz.
u2023-06-14-39	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Member of the Hungarian Government and the small and medium-sized enterprise sector, supported by taxes or other forms of support for the SME sector, has been mentioned many times in his speech. He is mistaken and trying to make the situation look the wrong way, as if the Hungarian government were only concerned with the support of foreign large companies, while, of course, Congressman knows only from a political point of view, he must say something else that is far from the case, and indeed. The Hungarian government has been a strong supporter of the small and medium-sized enterprise sector since 2010. We have more than one reason for this. Perhaps the strongest argument is that this sector accounts for nearly 70 percent of employment. It is a sector that is almost exclusively or in the vast majority, 90 percent of which have Hungarian interests, so we can talk about Hungarian ownership, and there are many forms of subsidies that have worked very well. At the time of all major crises, even after the financial crisis in 2008-2009, this sector was highly supported by the government during the Covid epidemic, when we launched the third largest rescue package in the European Union, it was particularly supportive of the SME sector, and now, in the crisis as a result of the Russian-Ukrainian war, we are also providing them with enormous help in terms of reducing the costs, preserving jobs and keeping interest rates. In addition, not only in terms of investments, it was not only the SME system, but also the support of the large corporate system that started at the time of the Hungarian government, it started at the time of the current government, precisely so that not only foreign-owned large companies, but also Hungarian large companies, could benefit from support. EU funding is primarily directed to the SME sector, which is not suitable for large companies and which receive a separate budget. So it is simply not true that even though foreign large companies would be more supported by the government than by the domestic SME sector. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-14-40	Thank you very much, Congressman Bánki. For two minutes, Mr. President Novák, representative of our country, will be on the floor.
u2023-06-14-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Last year, the very democratic László Kövér blocked my budget proposals against the increase of holocaust compensations and Gypsy subsidies in one person, so they didn't have to bother to vote off. What do I have to do with my similar amendments this year? Such a prohibition has not yet taken place in this cycle, but in previous years it has been made only with unstandard amendments such as Peter James's proposal for the Orbán statue. While László Kövér did not mind that DK proposed to withdraw HUF 20 billion from the Hungarian Defence Fund in the war emergency and 10 billion from the Hungarians abroad, he refused, among my 16 budget amendments, my motion to increase the Holocaust compensations and Roma subsidies. [[12.40]] I am trying to justify it even more diplomatically now, but it is unbelievable that the holocaust damages resulting from the Paris peace treaty of 1947 will still be a budget item next year, according to the current proposal before us, and has even been raised in the bill, after four years after Mazishis launched the support programme for the second generation of Holocaust survivors. I think we've had enough of the holocaust compensations, and since the examination of the numbers of the holocaust is absurdly Btk. it is prohibited and therefore it is not fair to make it part of the budget law. I also initiated the withdrawal of the support of the National Roma Municipality, which can be considered a criminal organization, with scandals, by submitting a point of the debate document annexed to the founding declaration of Mi Hazank, although in a moderate way avoiding the word for which the Speaker has just punished me for HUF 5 million. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Then the punishment works!]] But the Speaker still didn't tolerate this proposal, even though we're not racists, but those who have the billions. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] given according to skin colour. Let's end this, I suggest. Thank you. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Punishment works.]]
u2023-06-14-42	Thank you very much, Congressman President Novak. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpa for two minutes, Jobbik.
u2023-06-14-43	Mr President, Dear House, Lőrinc Nacsa asked me to stay on track. I promise you, there won't be any emotion in the speech, if only there could be. In April 2010, the nominal amount of government debt was approximately HUF 19 300 billion. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: What's the percentage?]] [[Nacsa Lőrinc: What's the percentage?]] This budget proposal states that this is much more extensive in 2024: the government debt will be at HUF 56 900 billion. (Lőrinc Nacsa: And 100%?) So what we see is that, of course, it is measured in proportion to GDP and as a percentage, it is very often examined, but the nominal one is also very important, because this budget and yesterday this is going to spend more than HUF 3000 billion on one year's repayments, because the debt has gone so brutally. Zoltán Balczó, my former colleague, made an excellent calculation, Mr Secretary of State, looking at inflation since 2010, and on this basis he found that even if we weighted all inflation to date since 2010, there is no justification for such a brutal increase, and it can be said that the amount of government debt increased by HUF 4 million 300 thousand per household during the Fidesz era compared to what would have been justified in a weighted manner since 2010. So I am very pleased, and you have rightly said that runaway inflation, EU record inflation, also has an impact on this system, but I did not feel that yesterday's reaction was sufficient in terms of your idea of managing public debt. A brutal repayment burden of 3000 billion per year, which may continue to grow, strangle the country, will slowly and slowly become inexhaustible; or it will only be possible to produce this money by taking it away from very important public supply systems. So it clearly calls for an answer about how the government intends to manage the brutally increasing burden of repayment [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] You have any idea of this area at all. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President.
u2023-06-14-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Bakos, representative of the LMP, notary, for two minutes.
u2023-06-14-45	Thank you, Mr. President. Lőrinc Nacsa mentioned the country lease this morning, which is a very good initiative just a year after we proposed the introduction of the climate lease. However, the only problem with this is that it does not apply to urban transport anywhere but Zalaegerszeg. We are very confident that this will happen in the future, so that it will be valid in other settlements. Because there is virtually no evidence of this financing in the budget, nor of the development of Community transport in general. Just a few numbers to stay on track: 282 billion for rail passenger transport, 152 billion for coach transport; in the first case, this is an extra 5 billion, approximately 2 percent increase compared to last year, and in the second case 19 billion, that is about 14 percent. This does not really compensate for inflation or the rise in energy prices. The question is, then, how will the country lease itself be financed; and it is very important to draw attention to the need for further improvements, as this will be attractive if we can ensure a truly high quality Community transport throughout the country. This needs to be improved, with operating surpluses and investment surpluses; and it is really worth it if the urban and suburban tariff community is actually implemented throughout the country, as this is how agglomeration commutation can be triggered so that it does not happen by a car. In order to do this, it is also necessary to support the municipalities and provide them with extra resources. Thank you very much. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Talk to Gergely Christmas! Bence Rétvári: That's right! Show a Good Example in Budapest]]
u2023-06-14-46	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, A second round of speakers came forward in writing. First, I give the floor to Congressman Erik Bánki, representative of Fidesz.
u2023-06-14-47	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Criminal lawyers assume the best of bad people, and divorce lawyers assume the worst of good people. This somma opinion comes from the movie Marriage Story. Given the course of the budgetary debate so far, I see that only divorce lawyers are sitting in the benches of the opposition. They are not interested in the facts, they are not interested in the figures, they are not interested in the government's performance so far, in what areas we have achieved, and in what emphasis the budget has on this difficult year, with war, with war inflation, with the consequences of the failed Brussels sanctions policy, and in the next year, 2024, which is covered by the draft budget law before us. It is difficult to have a substantive debate if we are not talking about specifics within the walls of this House. The budget of 2024 is, quite rightly, the budget of protection in these war conditions. The unstable global economy environment, the failed Brussels sanctions policy and the negative effects of the prolonged war also pose very serious challenges for Hungary. However, we cannot afford to lose our achievements so far, so we need a budget that guarantees the physical and economic security of Hungary, protects Hungarian families, jobs, pensions, and continues to maintain a unique system for reducing the costs in Europe. Dear Parliament, In addition, the budget also focuses on all important areas. More than HUF 3200 billion is available for health purposes in 2024. This is by more than HUF 2,000 billion! more than the amount adopted by left-wing governments in the last budget for 2010. Education expenditure, ladies and gentlemen, which you are attacking with sufficient vehemency, exceeds HUF 3400 billion in 2024 which is another HUF 2000 billion higher than that included in the 2010 budget. To mention these figures, it is deeply disappointing and incomprehensible that on yesterday's debate day, the leader of the left, Ferenc Gyurcsány, called the budget for doing nothing in 2024. The Gyurcsánys bled out health care during their administration, took 650 billion forints from this area, bankrupted hospitals, and took a month's wages from health workers, and, if this had not been enough, they wanted to make Hungarian health care pay. [[Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] During left-wing governance, the social and education policy also failed badly in Hungary. There were huge differences between schools, and education in small settlements was completely impossible, and a month's salary was taken from teachers, while education was loud from abuses and scandals. In the midst of the impossible financing conditions, former school maintainers, local governments have accumulated a deficit of more than HUF 1300 billion. Many schools have been closed, and education in the country has ceased in no less than 381 places. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Left's attitude to the 2024 budget is outrageous and unworthy. This is also confirmed by President Zoltán Vajda's speech yesterday, who compared budget planning to lottery. Mr. Congressman's assumption that we are obstructing the arrival of EU funds in Hungary, I must strongly reject it. All the more so, since Ferenc Gyurcsány, the leader of the left, acknowledged it during a radio interview: they are working in Brussels to ensure that our country does not have access to the EU funds it otherwise deserves. Literally quoting Ferenc Gyurcsány: in fact, you don't have to lie. We were there. That's what we were supposed to do. The former left-wing prime minister also exposed his fellow Members and the dollar left with a face-to-face honesty, as he acknowledged that Brussels' aim was to overthrow the Hungarian government and Hungary did not receive the EU funds it owed him. [[12.50]] He also said that they are working a great deal in Brussels and in Hungary to keep Hungary out of these subsidies, thus making Hungary's budget impossible. Of course, they do not mind that they are punishing Hungarian people, not the Hungarian government. [[László Varju intervenes.]] Dear House, The aim of the Hungarian government is to keep inflation firmly contained, and we will achieve this goal by the end of the year by reducing inflation to one-digit levels in Hungary. It is also important that we maintain economic growth and maintain full employment; we continue to protect vulnerable companies, as well as the general government deficit and the government debt ratio. Thanks to the work of the last decade, the foundations of the Hungarian economy are stable, so we can avoid the recession again this year, and next year we can return to the growth path of around 4 percent. In difficult times, the left has dealt with crises by putting more and more burdens on people instead of helping them. The 13th month pension was abolished; the duration of the child was reduced; the VAT rate was increased by 5 percentage points; the family allowance was included in the tax; the retirement age was increased; the sick money was reduced; a month's wages were taken from those working in the public sector; they wanted to introduce a property tax and, as I mentioned, they wanted to make Hungarian health care pay. Fortunately, the change of government in 2010 has already prevented these actions, so Hungary, the Hungarian people, has escaped. The foam on the cake was the big IMF loan that was taken by the Bajnai government, without which Hungary would otherwise have gone bankrupt in 2009. Ladies and gentlemen, So let us sum up the most important objectives of the 2024 budget: preserving the peace and security of Hungary, guaranteeing energy supply, breaking down inflation, maintaining economic growth, protecting families, pensioners and companies. Believe me, these are very serious commitments. In times like these, you have to think twice about how much money you spend. There is much to say about next year's budget; obviously there is always more to be asked for. Each area has its own development plans and ideas, where additional resources could and should be spent, but maintaining balance, considering how expenditure is going in proportion to revenue, is always the responsibility of the current government. I believe that, as in recent years, the staff of the Ministry of Finance and the management of the Ministry of Finance have made the most thoughtful, well-founded, best decision in compiling budget expenditure in 2024. I think that changes in emphasis can still be achieved in the debate on the budget, but this would require a substantive debate. A debate on merit can be held when there are substantive proposals; it is not political lounges, but concrete proposals, of course, in the light of the scope of the Hungarian budget; because if we spend too much at such a time, it can have particularly serious consequences. The Hungarian economy is stable, as I said, the Hungarian budget is stable, and this is very important, because Hungary's financing capacity, the financing capacity of the Hungarian sovereign debt, the sense of security of investors settling in Hungary depends to a large extent on what budget we can adopt and how we can comply with the laws adopted. Thank you once again for the victim-made work of the Secretary of State and of the Ministry of Finance. I think that this budgetary debate provides a good basis for us to go through, take stock of what development ideas there are, what additional needs may arise and may be dealt with by internal transfers, but we cannot change the corner numbers as appropriate. I very much hope that the planned revenue will be achieved as planned by the Ministry of Finance, and that in light of this, we will be able to meet expenditure as set out in the budget for next year. I would ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-06-14-48	Thank you very much, Mr Erik Bánki, President of the Commission. The next speaker is Mr Balázs Barkóczi, representative of DK. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-06-14-49	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Let us, on the other hand, see the truth and the substantive proposals, since we have been asked to do so by the Member. [[Bence Rétvári: Ferenc Gyurcsány and the truth!]] Due to the prohibition of teachers, students and parents in the past year and a half, the situation of Hungarian education has become the focus of public interest; today almost not only professionals but also laymen are able to list the main problems of Hungarian kindergartens, nursery schools, public education and higher education, serious shortcomings in the sector. Only a few of these, of course without the need for completeness: according to the trade unions, today there are 16 thousand teachers missing from the system; 11 percent of the posts are unfilled; this has not happened since the World War. The number of early school leavers is constantly decreasing, while the number of early school leavers is increasing at a dizzying pace. From 2015 the government assigned the teacher's wage increases to the so-called screening fund, which has been unchanged for eight years, i.e. HUF 101 500. Thus, the wages of teachers are constantly decreasing as their workload increases; according to the trade unions, an average Hungarian teacher works 56 hours a week, with only a fraction of the time spent on teaching and educating. But the situation is not better among kindergarten educators and daycare workers. While their wages fall year after year compared to the average gross salary, only 68 percent of those who obtained the kindergarten teacher's degree still work on the field eight years after graduation. The introduction of the nursery allowance in 2022 caused a wage difference within the profession, which also increased migration. And then we didn't even talk about the confusion caused by the continuous change of concepts in vocational training, the lack of companies involved in dual training, namely foundations forced on universities and working as a fidesz paying place in higher education. These problems are not solved by the draft budget we have just presented, so we can call this budget a budget for inflation in Orbán, hopelessness and price increases. According to the bill, next year the government will increase the amount of education for less than inflation in Orbán, while these funds remain below the EU average, i.e. 5 per cent, in proportion to GDP. Not to mention that instead of raising educators' wages, you are lyingly pointing to Brussels, while, due to the deterioration of Europe's record, teachers' salaries are losing their purchasing value every day, and inflation is also eating pensions. And while public education is in ruins because of low funding, while the number of children who do not have access to world-neutral education is increasing in rural areas, the state would spend 31 percent more than this year on supporting the education of faith and ethics and on various forms of religious education, suggesting in a false way that there are public goals here. The Democratic Coalition and the shadow government led by Dobrev Klára, on the other hand, are committed to the renewal of education, and we believe that it is not to absolve a bad system, but to a whole new way of thinking, focusing on the interests of teachers, children and parents. Therefore, our proposals are to restore the self-management status of schools with immediate effect, and also give back the operation of public education institutions, together with the resources necessary for their operation, to the municipalities that undertake to do so. In order to eliminate the privileges of ecclesiastical institutions and the disadvantages of state-government institutions, we need to create the possibility of sector-neutral financing. The amount of budgetary resources allocated to education should reach the EU average level, i.e. 5 per cent, in proportion to GDP. The guaranteed salary of those classified under the pedagogue scheme shall be increased by at least 45 per cent with immediate effect, to which both the government revenue after the record high VAT rate and the resources remaining after the stopped government investment may be used as collateral. The guaranteed salary of non-educating workers in the education sector at A1 shall be increased to the minimum wage, B1 to the guaranteed minimum wage and F1 to 130 per cent. In the case of kindergarten educators, the housing support system should be integrated into the cafeteria and further training aid associated with the requirement of further training should also be provided. State funding conditions and grants for public, municipal, workplace and family nursery facilities providing nursery accommodation must be uniform. And last but not least, the state must complete the practice of replaying the school buildings that are part of the municipal property for the benefit of the church, as in my constituency of 15th century. In the district and in Újpesten there was an experiment. [[13.00]] We are all aware that, in recent years, the government has focused on framing them instead of supporting local authorities. As the burden grew, inflation in Orbán also ate up the ever increasing amount of municipal revenues. However, my constituency, Rákospalota, Pestújhely, Újpálota and Újpest do not require further increases in the solidarity tax, sevenfold increased prices and continued maintenance of financial uncertainty, but also the recycling of the territory of the former North-Pest Hospital, where it is no longer possible to postpone the start of maintenance work on historic buildings, the demolition of ruined buildings and the modernisation of existing buildings, or the construction of a new building building of a new building block and a building of the building of a new building block and a building building of a building block in the former Fidesz district; the construction of the building of the building of a new building site in the building section of the building section of the building block in the building section; the construction of the building of the building of the building block of the building of the building block in the new-room and the market; the construction of the new building of the building of the building of the building of the building of the building section, the building of the building and the building of the building of the building of the building of the building of the building of the new city; the building of the building and of the building of the building of the building of the building of the building of the building of the building of the building of the building of the building of the building of the building; the building of the building; the building of the building; the building, the building of the building, the building of the building of the building of the building of the building of the building of the building of the building of the building of the building of the building of the building of the building of the building of the building, the building of the building of the building of the building, the building of the building of the building of the building of the building of the building of the building of the building of the building of the building of the building of the building of the building in the building in the building in the building of the building in the building in the building in the building in the building in the building in the building in the building in the building in the building in the building in the building in the building in the building in the building in the building in the building in the building in the building in the building in the building in the building in the building in the building in the building in the building in the building in the building in the building in the building in the building in Last year, the Fidesz majority of Parliament wiped down the request of the people of Crab Palota, Pestújhely, New Palota and Újpest, saying that it would seriously jeopardise the functioning of the budget. I sincerely hope that in the country of canopy-free canopy walkways and unwarranted stadiums, this year there will be so much insight in pro-government representatives that people, who live here, will also sacrifice their common money to improve the quality of life. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-06-14-50	Thank you very much, Congressman Balázs Barkóczi. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2023-06-14-51	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would respond not to your constituencies, but to your educational proposals, and allow me to speak numbers and facts against your political speeches. As has been said many times, we are living in times of war, unfortunately we have been at war for more than a year now, and Brussels has adopted sanctions that have been wrong because of the war, and the sanctions have shot up energy prices, and every country is struggling with difficulties and additional costs; the Hungarian government can increase educational expenditure in such a difficult situation. If we look at how much you have devoted to education I look at the public education part of this, so we see kindergartens, primary schools, secondary schools, that is, HUF 1009 billion, while the budget just submitted amounts to HUF 2603 billion in educational expenditure. [[Laszlo Varju: 15 years later!]] That is a 158 percent increase, honourable Member, in recent years, and you know that this is not easy at a time like this. When there was no such energy price explosion in Hungary [[László Varju: 15 years later, Mr Secretary of State!]] It was simply their own government that put Hungary in a state of bankruptcy, so what did you do to the teachers? They took a month's wages from all teachers. [[László Varju: Come on!]] But they were even luckier, because those who had no luck, 15 thousand were dismissed, and they were dismissed because they closed the school in 381 places. They also made educator training, along with all other trainings, a tuition fee. There was no war, no sanctions. [[László Varju intervenes.]] There was no such energy price explosion that energy prices were rising 2-3-4 times, only their own bad governance, and at the time of your administration, teachers were out of control, teachers were drinking the juice of your bad governance. We are in a war environment, and we can, thank God, this year, more precisely next year, to ensure growth, because the sources of public education will be higher next year by HUF 393 billion compared to this year. What did you do with the textbooks? It was raised by 71 percent. What have we done? We made it free. This is now included in the budget by HUF 16 billion. How much have you spent on feeding the most needy children? 31 billion forints. How much do we spend on next year's budget? 105 billion forints, more than three times, Your Honour. All you've done in your speech is try to kick and stab the churches on about three points, suggesting that if you ever come to government, children who go to church school will be worth less to you. [[Balázs Barkóczi intervenes.]] He's talking about world-view neutrality and tolerance, just when you're religious, you're not tolerant. Finally, honourable Member, if you really want to do something for the teachers of Hungary, do not say false news here in Parliament, but convince, say, Ara-Kovács, a fellow Member of the European Parliament, in the colours of DK, or Dobrev Klara, or Molnár Csaba, or momentary politicians, Anna Donáth, not to devote their energy to spending all the time they spend in Brussels to prevent us from finally giving the teachers 800 billion forints needed to raise the teacher's wages; one for the same, this money would be there for teachers, obviously in monthly breakdowns the next day, as soon as it arrives. But that's not what you do. You are talking about preventing Hungarian teachers from making an average salary of HUF 800 thousand by 2024 in Brussels. It is believed that that is why 6 million forints are hired there in Brussels to punish Hungarian teachers to punish Hungarian people. I ask you, at least on this one issue, to change your position on this one issue, to change your policy, and not to consider in Brussels how to find new and new conditions on why Hungarian teachers should not receive what is legally theirs. Don't stop this from happening, honourable Member. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. László Varju: That was really nice!]]
u2023-06-14-52	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Some have applied for two minutes, but I must remind you that there will be 12 speakers in line with the agreed work plan. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Harrach, the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2023-06-14-53	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Some look at the budget, and in this you can only see an empty set of numbers, without a doubt, this is the most boring reading in the world. But if you look at the budget as a government plan, a government program with numbers, you see it as a very different, exciting reading. This certainly reflects the aspects, ideas and practical plans of a government. If you will allow me, I would like to give three examples of how the government thinks about communities, because man is a community being, of course, first of all, about family politics. Surprisingly, perhaps, the government has a family policy [[László Varju: Where?!]] It is surprising to those who see the activities of different governments in the world. Today there is family policy in Hungary. There are two parts: one is support itself and the other is an attempt to strengthen and restore the authority of the family as an institution, and this is also a social policy goal. In the family, the government sees the smallest natural community in society, ensuring the future of the nation. Family support is therefore a strategic issue. It is a respectable result that the government also strives to make family support a priority in a difficult economic situation. [[13.10]] This aid has a general and specific system. It's common when everyone gets family support. Of these, I would like to highlight the tax reduction, which is actually also a social policy objective that seeks to build a work-based society, since it binds this support to labour income. However, there is one element of family support that we need to call specific, because it provides support for different types of families, and now, during this period, there is a period of cultivation, fine-tuning. We also see that family policy is interacting with different sectors, so let's just think that the reduction of the rent is important to all families, or travel preferences, and so on. If you look at and allow a number to see how much the aid amount for 2010 was, today's aid is three and a half times higher than that. 3300 billion forints in this area. After families, it's worth talking about as a community about the nation. The results of the large-scale unification can still be maintained and the system-wide program or programs that have begun. It is natural that they are primarily the cultural and socio-economic support of cross-border parts of the nation. I mention a few: The Unlimited! The programme gives young people in the motherland the opportunity to meet young people from across the border, the Kőrösi Csoma programme or the Petőfi Sándor programme strengthens the cultural identity of the sporadics, while the economic development programmes help the Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin to stay in their homeland. If you look at the funding through the Bethlen Gábor Fund, the budget was HUF 32 billion in 23 and it increased to HUF 64 billion in 24. I would also like to say two or three sentences on a very special subject here. I think, and perhaps you agree, that a very important part of national policy is memory policy. This is an area of political life that can even create national unity between representatives of different parties. It is true that every political group has its own ideas of memory policy, but there are many people, events or places in the memory policy that we celebrate together, because the representatives of literature, of our history, those great personalities are jointly respected people. But in the same way, and now I would like to give you a specific example, let us think of the battle of Mohács as a sad, yet great event in our history, which has cut our history in half for a thousand years. The 500-year anniversary, 2026, is now being prepared, and let us mention that the government has already given significant support to finance this preparation. Here, let me make a comment in parentheses: we look sadly at Mohács, but let us not forget that there was another battle in 1687 in the immediate vicinity of Mohács, in Nagyharsány, where Hungarian, Czech, Polish, Croatian, Serbian soldiers won a victory against Muslim invasion with some Western help, in order to eliminate Turkish rule. Let's get back to the present. I would like to mention civil society as a community as a third. This is about 54 535 organizations, foundations, associations. These are, of course, real civil society organisations, which do not serve direct political purposes, and their support is rising, because until 2010 it was 144 billion forints, it will be 503 billion in 24 years. And then let us mention the forms of support that will take place here. The National Cooperation Fund offers this opportunity, but they are here, just like family support, special support, I think about the Village Civil Fund, the Urban Civil Fund, and, of course, support for NGOs across the border. This is done with the help of civil community service centres, free services and programmes organised for them also serve the aforementioned purpose of national reunification. All in all, we must say about the budget that it really is trying and successfully to provide security for the whole nation, of course, to ensure the results that we have achieved in recent years, so that the social groups and layers whose way of life has changed in recent years have improved, we can keep this with the help of the budget. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-06-14-54	Thank you very much, Congressman Péter Harrach. The next speaker is Mr István Hiller. You have the floor.
u2023-06-14-55	Mr President, Congressman Lords! Dear Parliament, I would like to talk about the state and state of Hungarian education and culture from the perspective of the budget plan for next year, to give an opinion and to give an opinion on this. I would like to talk about the whole education system, the possibilities of funding the education and education system, but you have undoubtedly built up a governance structure that I do not agree with, but it is legitimate, but in which this country does not have an independent, uniform educational portfolio. Thus, there is a special wallet for public education, which happens to be the Ministry of the Interior, a special wallet for higher education and vocational training. Of course, because in my mind, and I hope that in the minds of many, the issue of Hungarian education and Hungarian culture, the issues of national education and national culture are connected with thousands and thousands of threads, so I will also give my opinion on this area, which happens to be in a different wallet for governance than for public education, but in the same area as for higher education. I would like to say that I do think it is more appropriate, and not primarily because of the orientation of the Members, because it is our duty to do so, but rather in the case of Hungarian education and culture in this situation, that this is the big one, and I do not doubt at all, that the area that is important for you, Members, and the government that you have provided will be put together in a single wallet. I know, of course, that the Prime Minister has a government in Hungary, and not the government has a prime minister, but you, pro-government representatives and experienced people must have an insight into the extent to which a government structure can influence, improve or even reduce the quality of the particular area I am talking about, and which we will be thinking about together, certainly also to argue about. [[13.20]] But what you have created in the matter of government structure must be seen as a gift and accepted. That's how we talk about public education first. This is, without doubt, not only among those concerned in the narrow sense, but also as a whole of Hungarian society, an issue that many more people think about and take sides on, I think that most of them are arguing, some may support it, but it is definitely at the heart of thinking where the future of the Hungarian school is, where the fate of the teachers is, and most of all because, however strange it is, this is the most important thing that students, our children, our grandchildren are progressing, and how your system promotes this, and the budget for the year 2024 that they presented. I do not see an independent year, but I think in processes, and I describe the process that you started a long decade ago, at the end of 2011, with the adoption of laws, special laws, and, in terms of practical implementation, a great decade ago, on 1 January 2013, I describe it as a change that I have criticized all the time, but is undoubtedly large-scale; a change that was behind which there was concept and vision. I didn't approve of this concept and idea, and I don't approve of it now, but it doesn't mean that there was any thought behind it. What was that? The complete transformation of the structure of the maintenance of the Hungarian school, the nationalization of the municipal schools, the subsequent doubling of the proportion of the ecclesiastical public education institutions, the maintenance of the state and, through this, the establishment of the dominance of the state in the education of the vast majority of Hungarian young people. This was also served by a series of their budgets, and this line includes what has now been tabled as a proposal. Please listen to a quote from me from a fellow member of yours, which happens to be an ex-secretary of state, an assistant secretary of state, who himself is a teacher. I argued with him a lot, but I didn't question his skill. Here's what your former Secretary of State says. I resigned because I felt we had deceived the teachers. We created a law, related regulations, we invented and announced a system, then Minister Matolcsy said at the end of 2012 that there was no money. There's no money to tie a teacher's wage to a minimum wage. And it didn't seem to work to me that there's a new system on the teachers, we expect ratings, more work and administration, but we can't guarantee a higher salary. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, It's a broken promise. Teachers, students and parents protest at different times, in different ways, with a different Habitian, not just for something, but for something, and the fact is that a great deal of the problems are caused by the promise you have broken; not by some kind of opposition, not by the sound of the street, not by some promise that you have not even introduced, but by the fact that you have promised, introduced, and then violated. You have promised that, while demanding more work from Hungarian teachers, you will put a concept of public education behind it, giving more money to do so by ensuring its value-proofness by linking teacher classification to the minimum wage at all times, if you like, category A1. And you broke it. If you do not break this promise, the wages of Hungarian teachers are now 85-90 percent higher. Compared to this, their demands are particularly fair. They're demanding a 45-percent wage increase, while the promise you've made, introduced, and then broken is now roughly 85-90 percent higher. That's why they're arguing. They did something that I debated the professional part of, but I admit once again that there was a concept behind it, the necessary funding was promised here, introduced and then violated. It will be a decade since this happened, and today, however strange, the state of Hungarian public education could not be improved by directing teachers' wages alone. The settlement of teachers' wages is necessary, but it is not sufficient to maintain the level of Hungarian public education, especially not to raise the quality. There is a debate between us that is worth saying and fighting in front of the greatest public, in which I can say on behalf of myself and my political community that we take a specific position, because we are not willing to participate. What's this about? There is a statement, often repeated, that the representatives of the left should not talk now about what it means in your mind, however, the wording of the phrase prevents Brussels from paying the money from which you want to raise the salary of a teacher. I refuse to participate in this debate. The reason I refuse to be a part of this is not out of thoughtlessness or cowardice, because I find the basic statement false. I say to you that the wages of Hungarian teachers must be entirely borne by the Hungarian central budget. Not Brussels, not this, not that, not another country, not another centre, but the central budget of the Hungarian state! It would be fairer to face it. Therefore, in the debate that you say that you are hindering this site, then certain representatives of this side say that no, no, they will say, but yes, well, I will not be involved in this. The reason I'm not participating is because the foundation is false, wrong. You are, in the vast majority, individual elected Members, and not in small part, a list of Members who have brought the vast majority of the list seats from our electoral system. You are Hungarian representatives. The wages of Hungarian teachers cannot and must not be paid by anyone other than the central budget of the Hungarian state. So what I care about is how much there is in there. It would be fairer for you to say that this is what we have now, that we can give, and not to refer to the need for money from someone else, such as Brussels, to lead a political battle. [[13.30]] By the way, you know that after a while, the central budget of the Hungarian state will have to cover and pay the whole thing to the last penny. Therefore, I repeat: I am interested in the wage increase in the Hungarian state's central budget for teachers. 11.7 percent; that is what this budget can provide to the Hungarian teacher today, with the 6 percent inflation you predicted. I'm surprised they don't stand up to that. I would consider it fairer and braver, and with such a large majority, if they were to say that we are in a situation in which this is economic, foreign policy, because of the crisis that has been judged in a variety of ways, because anyone who denies that there is a crisis is stupid or lies, we can give teachers a net increase of 5.7 per cent in our budget. They don't. I'd argue even if I knew why it couldn't be more, and what I'd consider worth taking away to make it fairer. But please, together, I think that, in the long term, it is not in the interests of this country. First, they had a broken promise, the Deputy State Secretary for Public Education responsible for the territory for their broken promises resigned, and then half a decade later he tells me how it all happened, and then, after it turns out that they broke their promise and that they cannot fulfill what they have introduced, they are stirring up a political debate based on another budget, on which I repeat, because I am debating the basic statement, and I do not think it is better to argue about it at all. Therefore, I repeat my basic job: the wages of Hungarian teachers must be covered by the central budget of the Hungarian state, and then argue about the others with whom they want to, if there is a fool who will agree to this debate. However, what can we see from the system that was set up? Now, not simply on the part of funding, but I know that many of you are not just teachers, but have been taught for a long time, and I am sure that you are all involved in your families, whether you are teachers, students or even a friendly parent. I'm saying that the course they've set up... once again: I'm not talking about the broken promise, because I told you my opinion, it didn't bring any hope. The quality of Hungarian public education has not increased. I could refer to so many surveys, but I think you may know these, if not, please look into these surveys, as measured by Hungarian researchers, and the reports published by international teams that we have accepted, do not find anything that would say that the quality of Hungarian public education is higher, say, in the last measurable year, 2022 than in a long decade earlier. There is no such thing, and if there is no such thing, it should be considered whether the financing of this system or of this system is correct. There is something else that they can't do, we didn't suffer together, because we confess: we are living terrible years, not us politicians, but we, all Hungarians and not Hungarians. There was this plague of God when we were locked in our caves, our children couldn't go to school. I don't know, you know, there are some areas where psychologists are now dealing with teaching children how to smile; because behind the mask they wore for years there was no point in laughing. You do realize that one of man's most unusual qualities is not only about humans, but it is certain that he can express emotions with his face, joy with a smile, or grief with a different perspective, and these children have not learned that. To be honest, that's the worst thing you can say to the other politician, taking over the results of the research. They can't help it. But please, according to a number of speeches, as I have expressed myself: say, after we have been through this epidemic, indeed another misfortune, the war, should not have occurred in this next year, which I sincerely hope will not be plagued, though no one else would be plagued, but would no longer think about the children who were 6-7-8 years old in the two years of Covid, and those who had not received traditional education, learning the basics? whose teacher's aunt didn't teach me what you and your teacher taught me decades ago. I bet you all have a sentence in your head, an emphasis on how to tie the letter o to the letter b, or how to describe the word "mother". No one taught that to these three years. Why don't you think that this needs to be replaced, that it's worth it? Because there's no such thing in this budget. You know, it may not be easy, but it can be replaced when a teenager, just in high school, didn't learn how long the Nile is, how high the Mount Everest is, and by the way, when was the battle of the Great War. This, please, can be replaced. How to learn to write, read, count how to understand the text, which is the basic digital knowledge, these, if not taught at the age of 6-7-8-9, the whole knowledge, everything they want to build on it later will not be solid. They're building a house with a completely unstable foundation. There's no thought in this budget, nothing while we were living it together. So there is a broken promise, so there is a system of public education that produces a drop in standards, a clear fall in standards, a pandemic, and they do not realize that the system they have built has unfortunately failed. Compared to this, is the competition about whether there's more money or less money for what? The what? ! If we thought that the direction itself, the system itself, the system itself, everything that they have created is good, then we could really compete: it should not be 5 but 8. They say it's 7 now, and then this is a traditional budget debate on education. But that's not it, that's not it! Their own Secretary of State resigns for what they have done, for what they have done, for what they have quoted, for what they have undertaken, for saying that there is no education policy; it is a public, not a smuggled quote in a closed environment. I'm asking you to consider whether this is the right thing to do. I'm sure they're sensing the problem. First of all, the sound of the problem sensors is loud enough to get to you, but I'm sure if you don't want to listen to that, and you can hear it on Friday, you'll hear it in your own environment, I'm sure you'll say that. [[13.40]] I ask you to fundamentally change and rewrite the budget for the public education part of education, as this is the budget for the fall in quality in Hungarian public education. This is not the quality increase, it does not ensure that, but if they still fight 270 million forints, it will be better. It won't get any better. They finance a bad system, finance a poor system with a fall in standards, and argue about making more or less money into this bad system, this poor public education system. Basically, the concept is flawed. Therefore, I repeat: it is necessary to settle teachers' wages, but it is not sufficient to maintain the quality of Hungarian public education and to increase its quality. Since this is a budget, we will talk about the status law in two days' time and about what you have in mind about the future of Hungarian public education, but the funding conditions of that status law are also included in it, so the system itself needs to be discussed in two parts, but in two parts of a line of thought, in the first part on the financing of public education, the day after tomorrow on the status law. Let's take a look at higher education. I cannot talk about uniform funding for higher education. I respectfully ask you to look at the higher education part of the budget, as if it were not one Hungarian higher education, but two: there are still state-reserved higher education institutions, and there is one more that you have outsourced and provided to the foundation. Imagine your acquaintance who, at a certain point in a great academic career, has won the President of the Republic his academic appointment. If this person teaches at State University, then the university teacher's salary has been unchanged since 2018, at HUF 554 400, which is guaranteed by the state. If the same person, their same former colleague, the same friend, the same man with the same knowledge, goes to the other side of the city and teaches the same to students of another Hungarian university, then today he will receive no less than 800,000 forints. How's that? I'm not talking about a private university, I'm talking about a university that you've put on a foundation reservation, which, by the way, is specifically financed by the central budget. Please, this is the biggest business in the world. A curatorium, a board representing the foundation, provides for the whole, the second-floor desk, the park, the laboratory and the auditorium, but this is financed by Hungarian taxpayers. And if our former colleague teaches there, he earns hundreds of thousands of HUF more than the university held by the Hungarian state. But we are representatives of the Hungarian state! How can it be, honourable Members, that you support the fact that a university professor who teaches at his own university, owned by our Hungarian state, receives much less money than a teacher who does not teach at a university owned by the Hungarian state? How's that? Moreover, they want to step up this further. The fact is that by far above the inflation rate you are expecting, there is another 15.7 percent of non-state universities; and in the case of state universities, just to maintain the above-mentioned standard. I'm going to have to ask you a specific question here. There is a chapter title, which has been accounted for by the opposition for an accurate and detailed re-examination, and I quote: support for the programme of international EU and cross-border higher education tasks. Do you know how much it's going up? 1147 percent. You're gonna raise it to 1147 percent. I assume that in this it is possible to take the total amount of the Erasmus programme into the Hungarian budget. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the debate that we are discussing here in detail is unnecessary, but we all know that it is not a financing issue in itself. They do not simply take money from universities into the Erasmus + programme, but also the right to participate. You could add another 1147 percent, it won't work. At the same time, there is a significant item whose purpose should be clarified, so I appeal to the Honourable Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance, Minister of State Banai. Again, I'd like to quote you not to be accused of not looking, not going through the budget. Please, the budget for 2024 at institutional and central chapter level set out in Annex 1 to the submitted bill is HUF 668.8 billion, but there is a sum of more than HUF 200 billion, which is not specifically attributed to higher education, but is taken into account. I'd be happy to help Mr. Secretary of State to help me with the interpretation. The Annex to the so-called functional expenditure shows that this appropriation is increasing and that Article 19 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 provides that the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is to be considered as assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation. In Title 3 of the EU chapter, the Restoration and Resistance Instrument is intended for HUF 766,8 billion from the RRF framework in Hungarian. It is included in this HUF 766,8 billion, possibly an additional HUF 200 billion contribution to higher education, which is shown in page 579 of Volume 2 of the chapter statement. I quote: "The innovation component of universities, the RRF, will support its digital and climate objectives with building, tool development and digital skills development in connection with higher education practical training, as well as the modernisation of higher education courses, with the aim of promoting cooperation between universities and businesses. I respectfully ask whether this is the title of the HUF 200 billion in which the additional amount allocated or available to higher education is included. I would like to talk about culture, in particular, about the financing of culture, in which you can see that the financial conditions of culture are deteriorating, especially public education. Since you, individual representatives, are already pro-government individual representatives, the vast majority of which are not individual representatives of Budapest, I would very much like to draw your attention to the conditions for financing their public education institutions in their respective constituencys, because they are deteriorating. I understand that large, otherwise respectable investments have been made in recent years, but the cost of maintaining them is considerable. When there was more money, they were still able to bear it, but they are such a burden in the cultural budget that, because of the failure to find additional resources, they are pressing on the budget of rural public education. But not just to talk about the countryside, please, I don't know if you're following the case of independent theatres. There are a number of independent theatres, companies that do not receive or receive a single penny from the central budget, nothing. Nothing! [[13.50]] I must assume the operation of these independent theatres, knowing most of its lectures, that you do not have a problem with the quality of the performance, and that the politician then judges the quality of a lecture, but that they are anti-government and why they are financed by the central budget, which the government or the government party does not like. As I have been responsible for the ministry of this area for a relatively long time, I would like to inform you that they have been anti-government before, not in this color, but in critical minds, who bring it to light and criticize the government at all times. I am proud to say that we supported these theaters in the creation of the Act of Performing Arts, not least, and you didn't. This is political discrimination in a budgetary language, so I suggest that you tolerate criticism more, tolerate the opinion of artists more, and accept that not everyone thinks the way you think. And as strange as it may be, this is not your budget, this is the budget of the Hungarian state, which includes artists, directors, theatrical groups, which otherwise do not receive a penny. I find that a shame. Finally, please allow me to say a few sentences as Parliamentary representatives of Pesterzsébet and Kispest. I have tabled individual amendments because this constituency, which is indeed not the richest part of Budapest, is inhabited by honest and honest people who have given this nation many, many celebrities about Kispest and Pesterzsébet, who we are all proud of. There is a market that was bombed in World War II; it was a beautiful building in itself; in the district where I live, most people go there. I would very much like it to be restored, which is roughly four billion forints. I'd like to suggest that one day the Rackeves leave. [[Soroksári]] - To the Danube branch, they see something very few places in Europe. From where we are now, 10 kilometers from the House of the Hungarian Parliament, they see such a natural miracle that they do not believe it. There's no such thing in Paris, Rome, Madrid. If we don't take care of the water quality, we're gonna have a real problem. I would ask you to look at this amendment. I'm sure you're a great admirer of Károly Kós. He designed and built the Wekerle site. There is a very specific plumbing system, it has been expected to be replaced for decades, as I would also ask you to support my individual amendment to the precipitation drainage of the suburb of Kispest. I was talking about education and culture, and I was trying to mean that we should not simply see numbers, but that we should be able to talk about the future, which I will not be able to support through learning about this budget, but it is not enough to say no. I've been trying to sum up my opinion on the right direction. Please consider this. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2023-06-14-56	Thank you very much, Congressman István Hiller. He asked for a floor outside the line, and I will give it to Mr Péter Banai Benő Minister of Finance.
u2023-06-14-57	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I will briefly respond to your question on three issues in the areas of public education, higher education and culture. In the field of public education, let me begin by saying that it is perhaps a cliché, which is important that we are sure to agree that our common goal is to raise the quality of education. I repeat: I think this is out of the question. My second point, however, is that I believe that after 2010, there have been a number of changes aimed at achieving this goal. You said, then, that the new concept that was achieved in public education after 2010 was a thought behind it, but, Mr President, Minister, he said that the concept was fundamentally flawed and the system failed. Let me argue with that. Why am I arguing with him? On the one hand, we know from a financial point of view that the system of public education, where the financial opportunities of the local government determined what kind of training the children received, also meant a fundamentally unsustainable system from a financial point of view, and gave children different chances: there was a school where they could provide the most modern tools for educating children and where they could not buy chalk. So I think that this system has also had to be changed financially. For this reason, I think that if the aim is to increase the level of education for children, then a system of uniform funding and uniform quality requirements could be the depositary of increasing education standards and children's qualifications. From another point of view, let me argue with the Minister's comment. If the goal is to get educated and healthy children out of school in all respects, then I do consider it valuable that everyday physical education has been introduced. We know the state of health I look at the country's Secretary of State, perhaps he will correct me if I say it wrong, but our health condition is essentially responsible for the lifestyle, how we live, what we eat, how much we move; it is also a fundamental health change that has been linked to the introduction of everyday physical education. I think it's an important and positive change. [[Bernadett Bakos is replaced by Sándor Berki in the notary seat.]] Many criticized the funding of faith and ethics. I think the most important thing is that not only spiritually, but also mentally and physically prepared and healthy children are educated in public education institutions. It is not only about training them according to the same standards from different subjects of study, but also about getting them used to everyday physical education and educating a maintenance child, I think it also justifies the funding of faith and ethics. The next point I would argue with is a violation of promises. Once again, the need to increase teachers' wages is above debate. So, I repeat, there is no debate between us in this, but if I look back to the level of pay in 2010 and compare this with the bill of 2023 and 2024 before this House, then I see that the wage share of non-secondary education expenditure is HUF 1226 billion in 2023 compared to HUF 602 billion in 2010; this is more than doubling, this is above inflation. So I repeat: I do not argue with the Member that the increase in wages is necessary, but, looking back on the past, I can say that the wages of teachers have increased either as part of wage increases or as a result of the rating system, overall, above inflation. The next part is once again where there is no debate between us, and thank you, Mr President, for drawing attention to the difficult situation that we are in a difficult situation. You mentioned the pandemic, you mentioned the war, we know the economic consequences of this, and I think it's a result in itself if we can keep the wages we have achieved so far. Mr President, you know very well that there were times of crisis before 2010 when wages could not be kept, and there was a fall in wages. Both during the pandemic and now, the wages of teachers have increased in the post-pandemic period, and have increased even after 2020. [[14.00]] So I think it is a success that, in addition to crises, we can talk about a pandemic or economic difficulties due to the Russian-Ukrainian war or sanctions, at the very least, that the level of wages must be preserved. Compared to this, it is understood that the government has undertaken and is included in the operational programme approved by the European Commission to increase the wages and salaries of teachers of public education to 80% of the average wage of that period by 2028. This is a very significant increase, and since we assume that all EU funds will arrive in Hungary, and we will be able to finance a wage increase from this, we will be counting on this item in the budget of 2024. This could mean more than a 20% increase in wages for teachers compared to 2023. Why EU funding? Because we believe that the funds paid by domestic taxpayers to the central budget and the European Union funds are public funds. So all the money is public money. We want to make a wage increase with public money. Based on the operational programme resources approved by the European Commission during the first period, and as soon as these resources are exhausted, of course, we maintain the increased wages entirely from national sources, and the commitment to maintain this 80% rate after 2026 is maintained, so by 2025, the average salary of teachers can reach 80% of the average wage of that period, and we will therefore maintain this level from 2026 onwards in the following years. Of course, all the professional issues of public education cannot be discussed now, but what I would like to underline is that after 2010, despite the crises, wage expenditure has also increased and public education funding has also increased. That is not enough, we would like to continue, the plan for next year contains the budgetary coverage of this, together with, of course, the fact that there are other tasks that we need to resolve beyond the provision of budgetary frameworks. As for higher education, very briefly. However, there are many criticisms of freedom of education, of freedom of choice. Higher education institutions have chosen the foundation reservation on the basis of the decision of their own Senate. So there were institutions where the Senate decided to change the model, some that remained in the original form of operation. I repeat, the decision of the university leadership was whether or not to become a model changer. If we are talking about a model-shifting institution, then, yes, there is a longer-term multi-annual financing contract to provide resources, and the university decides to increase wages from this additional resource, or to carry out a different kind of expenditure. As far as the budget figures are concerned, yes, these are also the reason why higher education expenditure will be substantially increased in the draft budget law for next year. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] And as for culture, let me be factual here. If I look back to 2010 or the previous period, there is no doubt that from one year to the next, there may be years when the amount of certain cultural expenditure is falling. For example, a large investment can be made, and cultural investment expenditure may be reduced from one year to another. However, what we can discuss in the budget is basically the figures, I can tell you that cultural spending has increased very significantly in the longer term compared to 2010. The financing of this area could increase by 279 percent from 2010 to 2024. In a European comparison, this means that the share of public expenditure for culture among EU countries was in the first three in recent years, in proportion to GDP. I think it can stay that way in 2024. [[In the notary seat, Béla Mihálffy is replaced by László Földi.]] If I have already mentioned this, let me give you so many general answers to the question raised by the Member, Minister, as regards the calculation of public expenditure. All the figures I have mentioned in terms of public education or culture show a total of the appropriations entered in the various appropriations of the budget, but financed by the same objective. I mean, yes, any funding, any chapter, European Union or domestic funding, it should be that a public education expenditure comes from the Ministry of the Interior, or among the European Union's resources the so-called XIX. In the EU development chapter, I have mentioned a total of numbers both in terms of public education and higher education, so if you are looking for details of, say, higher education expenditure or expenditure on public education, you will need to find items from several chapters that publish both the field of public education, higher education and culture. Of course, we have these detailed breakdowns at our disposal, so I would be happy to send you details of the expenditure in this area, both to the Member and to others. All in all, I can therefore say that, yes, we have a number of tasks ahead of us in the areas that Mr President has said, but still, the budget of 2024 contains a point in the educational or cultural area, despite the war and the difficult economic situation, the preservation and even the increase of expenditure in a number of areas. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-14-58	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Erős, Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2023-06-14-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The protection of jobs is also a priority in the 2024 budget. Work is also the basis for the prosperity of Hungarian families and the development of the economy. Therefore, our priority in the difficult economic situation of failing sanctions in Brussels is also to maintain full employment and to protect one million new jobs that have been created since 2010. Hungary has taken a turn since national governance. We have set the economy on a growth path, which we have preserved despite the epidemic and the war situation. Thanks to government measures and the economic recovery after the coronal virus epidemic, the Hungarian economy continued to perform well in 2022 and expanded by 4.6 percent, with which it is in the top third of the EU ranking. Our aim is to avoid the economic downturn and to continue to grow again this year. The extent of this is negatively influenced by war and its economic effects, so we expect a 1.5 percent increase in 2023, but in 2024 the rate of growth is significantly higher and is expected to be 4 percent. It helps to protect against a dangerous international economic environment by strengthening Hungary's self-sufficiency and food safety. The government will continue to rebuild the food industry in these dangerous times, improving product quality, productivity and energy efficiency in addition to increasing manufacturing capacities. Government-supported investments protect existing jobs while creating new jobs. Thanks to these steps, the Hungarian economy has successfully come out of the economic downturn caused by the pandemic. According to recent data, the GDP level before the epidemic is now 4.9 percent higher than the Hungarian economy, while the EU average was 2.9 percent higher. Dear Parliament, The labour market indicators of Komárom-Esztergom Vármegye are among the best in national compilation, with almost full employment in the region, which must be protected. As an example, the investments made at Gyermely Zrt. in my constituency, Esztergom and its region have been made in the past five years, as the group has been able to spend more than HUF 22 billion on development with the support of the Hungarian government. As a result, it now exports nearly three hundred high quality Hungarian pasta products to more than twenty countries on four continents. The newly opened new plant was completed from more than HUF 6.5 billion with HUF 1.7 billion government support. [[14.10]] Thanks to this development, the largest mill centre in the country was created in Gyermány. As a result of the restructuring of state developments, investment activity can be characterised by strong growth from 2024 onwards. In Esztergom and its region, if we look at the past period alone, many of the investments made prove the government's commitment to active development policy. In Esztergom, the new market was built, a connecting bicycle road and incubator house, as well as numerous investments in the villages, among which are outstanding developments in nursery and kindergarten. Investments in increasing production capacities and technological improvements to improve efficiency will continue to play a key role in strengthening our country's growth potential in the coming years. Despite adverse circumstances, last year's investment rate increased to 28.4 percent, and in the long term, it can remain high thanks to the ability of the domestic economy to attract capital, the attractive corporate environment and the competitive tax system. The development of production capacities will lead to a further recovery of export activity, so net exports can contribute positively to GDP growth in addition to the expansion of domestic demand. In order to preserve Hungary's peace and security, guarantee energy supply, reduce inflation, maintain economic growth, protect families, pensioners and companies, the government has taken a number of measures. These measures contribute to maintaining the income security of households, protecting companies and jobs. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-06-14-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Róbert Dudás, Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-06-14-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, We have the government's budget for 2024 ahead of us, but before I get to that, there have been some thought-provoking issues, so if you'll excuse me, I'd like to respond to a few of them. Mr. State Secretary said just now, although Mr.Péter Banai, State Secretary, that the rate of wages has increased and how good it is for the Hungarian people and how good it is for the Hungarian economy. This is obvious, and we can talk about 15-16 percent wage increases. At the same time, however, we must look at how people appreciate all this and how they perceive these increases in wages. These are perceived as being the result, from the National Bank, through the Ministry of Finance and several other institutions, that there has been a steady decline in real wages since around September last year, but it is likely that Minister of State knows this better, since around September last year there have been continuous real wage cuts, so much so that, say, in February this year, there has been a decrease in real wages of almost 20 percent. So we can talk about 15-16 percent and 17 percent salary increases, but at the same time there is such an increase that these salaries have not kept their solvency; they have greatly deteriorated. Obviously, this is due to a lot of things. In the previous speeches, my fellow Member Hiller has explained a number of areas in great detail and in a very fair way, and I honestly do not want to add that in relation to education. In view of what he has said, I also think that the people in the pro-government benches and the silence with which they have listened are at least thought-provoking to everyone. All the facts are that, by the way, despite their own commitments, a secretary of state who, let's say, 5-6 years later told us what they were doing, and if they had kept their promise because they hadn't kept it, we wouldn't necessarily have to talk about teacher wage arrangements today, because that would mean that teachers' wages would already be 80-90 percent higher. My fellow Member Harrach reminded me of a battle in 1687, a battle. In connection with this, I was struck by the idea that he said that there was a Central European cooperation in 1687. This would be important now, and today too, a Central European, European, but Central European cooperation. We are here in the middle of Europe, in the heart of Europe, even though it is tiny, small, but more beautiful, as a beautiful country, but only alone. We are alone, thanks to your economic policy and your foreign policy. We're alone. The V4, which brought together and embodied Central European representation, political and economic interest, does not work because of the Hungarian government's policy, or if it works, it works without us. And I feel free to talk about our situation with the European Union. You're always talking about war, which, by the way, is an unfortunate fact that war is taking place in our eastern neighbourhood, but you're constantly fighting war with international communities, by the way. And then again, here we are in the middle of Europe, a beautiful, small, but otherwise dedicated country to the help of national communities, with which we are constantly at war, and then, of course, pointing out something else, because it is perhaps one of the most intuitive practices in your communication, policy and communication. Today, too, we have heard in many cases that compared to 2010. I would like to remind you that, first of all, I would like to say that I do not want to defend the government before 2010 by accident, even because the 2010 Fidesz two thirds was largely due to bad governance before 2010, but if they said multipliers in terms of support for certain areas, that they would give twice as much or give three times as much, so I beg you, 13 years have passed, it would be a huge problem if these numbers had remained in the budget lines by the way, the same numbers would have remained. And then I have to note here that there are some numbers that remain the same, not compared to 2010, but rather compared to 2008. Why hasn't the basic salary of civil servants been raised since 2008? Why didn't they raise it? And it's not in next year's budget, either, just to connect to the subject. There is no increase in civil servants' basic salary in last year, this year or next year. It does not include raising the basic salary of law enforcement workers. It hasn't been touched since 2008. It does not include the minimum pension increase, the minimum pension increase, which was 28 500 forints in 2008, and will probably be 28 500 forints in 2023 and in 2024 as well. Now I could tell you to think about how much these 28 500 forints are, how much they can spend, not spend, but how to allocate these 28 500 forints for a month. I am sure that there are many Members among you, or there are many members of the government, who, if instructed to earn 28 500 forints a day, would still start to think, "Oh, my God," and then what will happen to me. These people will be assigned 28 500 forints a month! Otherwise, you don't have to think about how to schedule this. You don't! Heating. Probably, since we're talking about minimal pensioners, we're talking about the elderly, they're probably also spending drugs, and they'd be if they could buy it, and then we haven't talked about eating anything yet. These people are thousands, even if they are not the largest crowd, thanks to God, among pensioners, but there are thousands, they have to make a living of 28 500 forints. Family allowance. They mention and say many times what kind of family protection action plans and programs have been announced. [[14.20]] This is all welcome, and we have always always supported them, because this is very important. Who do we support if we don't support families? Who should we support if we do not support the children through the family and the Hungarian future through the children? This, I think, is completely independent of the ideology of man, on which side of the parliamentary horseshoe he sits, families and children must be supported. Since 2008, the family allowance has been intact. The amount of the family allowance is one second of patience, which, by the way, amounts to HUF 307.5 billion in budget lines, affects 1.7 million people. If there is any support that will surely reach families, children, by the way, I think that this is one of the kinds of support that it is obliged to provide to the government, a dog's duty. I understand, of course, that it is not a support-based society, but a work-based society. I fully agree with... make no mistake, and don't twist my words, that you want to give money without work, but that's not what this is about. [[Erik Bánki: Yes!]] No, my colleague Erik Bánki, no, that's not it! I'm very sorry if this is a painful point for you guys to have to support families in this way. The family allowance for children has not been touched in 15 years. But if you'll allow me, I'd like to support this with some figures as to why this would be important, among other things. It would be important because in 2022 I said a year ago, and in the first quarter of 2022 there were a record low number of children born in Hungary. Maybe for the first time in a quarter of a year, it dropped to less than 20,000, 19 688. I've never had so few children before. This is also different from the negative record for 2019, and in 2022 there were 5 percent fewer children than in the previous year. I am not saying that this family allowance can be corrected and corrected; however, these are warning signs that the whole family support system should be considered. And not in order for anything to disappear, but rather to examine their effectiveness in order to assume, on the part of the legislator, that it was a positive idea, the goal is positive, but the result should be positive, too, in order that it actually achieves its objective. We give you, the government gives you some money for real estate purchases, just, you know, let's also see how much the real estate prices have increased since the introduction of these subsidies! Is this really helping both in the countryside and in Budapest? Particular attention should be paid to a number of areas, and I think that this is particularly true for Parliament and the government itself, for children and families. I have mentioned only a few thoughts, but I think it can be said that although Hungary's government has submitted it to the Hungarian Parliament as a budget, it is not necessarily, but it does not represent the Hungarian people; it is not in their interest. We have heard from you many times that austerity is not included in your dictionary. [[Sándor Font intervenes.]] Excuse me? [[Font Sándor: Explain that if we do not represent the Hungarian people, then who is it?! The president's ringing the bell.]] I see. [[Erik Bánki: Who do we represent?]] Thank you, Mr President, we have created a new genre. But I'm happy to be asked. [[Noise.]] He does not support Hungarian people, and this budget is not for their benefit. I am very confident that this is understandable to my fellow Members, but I will tell you a few things. For the past 13 years, you've been ruling the country by two thirds, full power, regulation and who knows what else you'll be introducing. More than 40 taxes have been introduced. They say the restriction in your dictionary isn't there either. They may not say it, but that's still what they call it. Also, if the burden increases, it is called a tax increase, the import of new taxes. More than a year and a half ago, I personally asked the Prime Minister to take steps with regard to the rising fuel prices of the Hungarian government. As a first step, the fuel prices should be frozen; I suggested to Prime Minister. At first he said that although the idea was not bad, it was not feasible; shortly afterwards the Hungarian government did so. But this was not the real solution, but the need to initiate negotiations with the European Commission in order to transfer fuel to a preferential VAT base, the category in which a national parliament can apply the preferential VAT. It hasn't happened since. [[Sándor Font: Discuss this question with the greens as well! The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2023-06-14-62	Go on, Congressman. [[Dr. László Pósán: Carry on.]]
u2023-06-14-63	Thank you very much. You're very kind of me to be allowed to continue. I'll keep going. In addition to the fact that they have not done so, that the fuel tax has been reduced in the next year's budget, and I would like you to respond to that, my fellow Member is raising the excise duty on fuels. That excise duty, the excise duty on that fuel... [[Sándor Font and several pro-government representatives intervene.]] I think there's a button in front of you. Please press the button. The excise duty on fuel is increased, which is the highest in Hungary for neighbouring countries. The highest is that when you look at wages, it's the lowest, food inflation is skyrocketing. I believe that it is sad to hear such things, but the problem is that this is the sad reality, my fellow Member. They're not reducing taxes, they're raising taxes. We also asked that VAT be released on basic foods. Release the tax that we could otherwise help Hungarian society, that part of Hungarian society who otherwise have the lowest income. And here I would like to add that you must have received the yearbook of the KSH, 30 percent of society is living below the minimum living standards. Unfortunately, these are very sad but dry facts. We asked them to release the VAT on basic foods, the VAT that was released in a number of countries in neighbouring countries. There were countries where this was minimized in the first place. As a result of the crisis, this cannot be taken away, they said that this is how we help society. We completely reduce the VAT on these products to zero. The Hungarian government said that no, we freeze the price of 8-10 products, not caring for the fact that it generates inflation, but also when we ask you why you are not given to certain areas, high prices, high fuel prices, high food prices and high prices of child raising products... We asked that the tax on child - rearing articles be abolished within the family support; I just mentioned it. I think that would be fundamental, too. But there's an extra income for the government. More than 1500 billion has been invested in the Hungarian budget than planned last year. You'd think there'd be tax cuts out of the extra income. No, they're not tax cuts, they're inventing tax races, and if I've mentioned that about 30 percent of society is living below the minimum of living, unfortunately they've lived up to their reserves, they've lived up to their savings, who's had them, who already had them; but who still has them, they're going to tax their deposits. György Matolcsy said his speech at the Economic Committee's meeting and at the plenary session of Parliament only a year and a half ago, and he said his criticism of the government. He also said that it would be worth about HUF 20 000 billion if my memory was not wrong, which is the amount in residential deposits, and it would be nice to turn this into economic circulation. I was very confident that they would not heed this intelligence in such a way; they seemed to have vowed that retail deposits were the next target. [[14.30]] It wasn't supposed to be this, but it was two years ago when he told the government that he proposed to the government and the Hungarian Prime Minister, the Prime Minister, that we shouldn't move on the gas, he knows that there is an election coming, but we shouldn't step on the gas, we should step on the brakes. The Hungarian government did not step on the brakes, but on the gas, and now we are drinking the money for this, and every Hungarian person sees the damage to it. Speaking of food and reducing their prices, millions of people are also using a SZÉP card. In many cases, I have been 4-5-6 times before the Committee on Economic Affairs or even the Committee on Enterprise Development with a proposal submitted to ensure that the amount on the SZÉP card can be used as widely and flexibly as possible. In the first round, I asked, and it was included in the resolution proposal to wipe out the pockets of the SZÉP card. It doesn't matter, but maybe it happened a Tuesday or Wednesday morning, when I got the answer that I couldn't, because there was a time when it worked that way, and this period was over, and then in the afternoon the government announced that it would otherwise wipe out the pockets of the SZÉP card. We don't make a prestige issue out of it, we're happy about it, it doesn't matter who advertises it and who brings it in, the point is to make it happen. However, it has not been implemented, although it has been suggested several times and has not yet been implemented, and this is nothing more than to buy cold food. These aren't ideas you get when you think about one, they're examples. There is an example, since during the Covid period for a six-month period, the government has allowed a SZÉP card holder to buy cold food. I don't know the exact number, but in that six-month year, there were thousands of food shops, including large food chains for SZÉP card acceptances because they were hoping to make a profit by spending it with them. It was good for people because they could buy cold food, it was good for shops, because they made profits, it was good for the state, because, by the way, it generated tax forints, so we're talking about such a measure. I think that every measure like this should look at who's good, good for everyone. If it is good for people, and perhaps this should be the primary consideration to be good for people, then it would be good, but it is not included in the budget for the '24. We will not be angry if this is published in a regulation during their term of regulation, but I think that such things should be recorded in a central budget. Good for the people, good for the state, good for the businesses, so I think this thing wouldn't have any losers, it would only have winners. There is an area, and perhaps I can safely say that I was the only representative of the Jobbik-Conservatives who dealt with this matter, and although I already had a budget amendment in there, which was rejected, I have now re-submitted this amending budget, this was about the Hungarian mail. At first, they said that they were going to shut us down temporarily, but even before there was news that you were preparing for postal closures, but they said, "Ah, no, it's fake news and it's all fake news." Then they said they'd close 366 mail. When I raised my word against that, they said it was only temporary. I have already said that when an office closes, the reopening is always doubtful. Two and a half or three months later, they announced they wouldn't open. The authorities have taken over the operation of which they have reopened. But by operating it, it means running the institution, the employees' wages, everything had to be taken over by the municipalities in all material respects. It is safe to say that, of course, the municipalities would be willing to take over, that is not what it is, and that it should be in their hands, in their treatment, even in this direction, the problem is that the municipalities were bleeding out. They can't take over the mail, even though the municipality wanted all 366 mail, I'm 100 thousand percent sure of that. However, 62 of those were re-opened, because unfortunately there were 62 municipalities who could do so. Mass redundancies have been announced, and a mass wave of resignations has also been launched due not only to the closure of the institutions, but also to the level of transformations, to the level of centralisations that people say do not undertake in this area. They do not accept it because it is dangerous, they do not undertake to commute in plus 40 and minus 20 degrees, say, knee-high snow with a small electric moped, with tens of millions of forints on their backs in pitch black, between two settlements, two small villages. What I don't know is who even made it up. I believe that the idea was good on a theoretical level, but the problem is that the practice absolutely doesn't meet. We should go down, go to these settlements, see how this works in the countryside, what people think, what the mailmen think about it, and then, I think, change the opinion. They also received a few percent wage increase, all of which are extremely low compared to the average wage shown by the HCSO data. That is why I asked for my amending budget to provide adequate resources for the reopening of offices and to provide adequate resources for raising wages for workers and workers remaining. I have tabled a number of budgetary amendments which I will not list now because of time constraints, but what I have to mention is the state of the roads, especially the state of the rural road network. If I say that it's critical in some places, or if I say that it still contains trace amounts of asphalt in some places, please believe that there are roads like this. I'm not saying that all roads are like this, and I'm not even saying that there were no road improvements, but please don't say that either, because not only did I not get to the end of this journey, but this intensity that has happened is not even appropriate. A few months ago, I asked Mr. Balázs Fürjes, Secretary of State, who else to turn to when there is a need to refurbish a road. There is a demand from the local government, there is a demand from the population, who should indicate this: the profession or politics? The surprising answer to this was that, well, politics. Balázs Fürjes said that politics should be indicated, then politics will decide. Well, please, it's kind of sad. Let's just say we see you in my district, and Congressman is here, and in my district, we also see road improvements that, let's say, are not in the interest of the wide public, and I'll put it very delicately. So when we give more than a hundred million forints to refurbish a dirt road and not a trip used by ten thousand people a day for more than ten years, I think we should think about what the direction is and which direction we should go, and what we really need to renew. There are a lot of these roads, and I really ask you to pay particular attention to this, unfortunately, in this budget, it is not possible to see that this has been paid special attention just because it is not only a guarantee of the survival of the countryside, but I think that I can even say that it is a guarantee of Hungary's survival that it will be a viable, prosperous region. And for a living, prosperous region, the right road network is inevitable, it is inevitable, it is essential to connect it to the economic circulation through an appropriate road network. If we do this, we have turned it into economic circulation, we avoid migration from there, we promote family formation, local family formation, and not the establishment of a family in the distance. If these basic infrastructure developments are missed by the government, then the countryside is permanently missing access to economic circulation. This will not only be due to the countryside, but I can say that, I think, all of Hungary. [[14.40]] As a last thought... I would know a lot, but I will just say one last thought to you that, when planning a budget, trade unions should certainly have spoken to a number of groups, but we should ask for the opinion of the workers of trade unions, health, education, culture and all sectors, and if a budget is born with the acceptance and support of all spheres, including all interests, then I think that it can unfortunately not be an appropriate budget for the whole of Hungary and the population. And then one more thought, since I've looked at my paper like that, I'll tell you this only in terms of wages. I have already mentioned how low wages are, how low they are in European comparison and how much real wages have fallen. You can say, of course, gross, net, but just inflation has taken the whole thing away with huge real wage cuts. Believe me, this is an enormous burden on people. I know very well, today's news, by the way, that this issue is not relevant in terms of government, well, if you look at it on the basis of news, but I think some reality is likely to come across, although some people have made only 40 or a few million, but on average 50 or 80 million forints last year, members of the government have been looking for me, some people have made almost 4 billion, but the average person doesn't make that much. This budget should meet not the needs of the government, not the needs of Parliament, but the needs of the ordinary people, and this is not what it meets. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2023-06-14-64	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Béla Mihálffy, KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-06-14-65	Thank you...
u2023-06-14-66	I apologize, Mr President, for Izer Norbert has indicated that he wishes to speak, and the Secretary of State has the right to speak. Secretary of State, if you'd like to understand, the floor is yours.
u2023-06-14-67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to hold off on the Members for a moment, but I would just like to respond to Mr Dudás's concerns about tax policy. I'd respond to three points. The Member's first observation was that the government imposed 40 taxes, which it did not define in what time frame, because we calculated that we had reduced the number of taxes by 11 before the Covid crisis, so that is exactly what we are proud of, that we were able to significantly simplify the tax system. Of course, because of Covid, there was a need for some tax measures which did not have a wide range of scope, population and companies, but which, by taxing extra profit, tried to collect budgetary resources either to fight Covid or to restore the economy, so there were indeed tax increases here, but we expect to be able to get them out of the tax system as quickly as possible. The congressman also mentioned the fuel tax, and perhaps in a way... I'm sorry, the excise duty, and as if he had said that it was one of the largest in the region. It is precisely the lowest in the region, it is so low that we have been below the EU's minimum for practically years, and it is also important to see that the level of this tax has been raised for about ten years, which is the last time in 2012, and we now have to reach this minimum level at practically Commission pressure. In practice, all the neighbouring countries have already denounced us by reducing the level of excise duty on fuel compared to what is included in the EU's expectations. And the third point I would respond to is the release of VAT for certain product products. And here it is very important to point out that VAT works and prices work in such a way that supply and demand define the end result, so shops can sell the product for what consumers buy, so if we touch the VAT, there is no guarantee that it will drop in consumer prices. In return, the price stop and the price cap guarantee this, for the products to which it relates it can clearly help, while the VAT reduction depends on very, very many factors. So I think that the government made a wise choice when it chose the targeted and sure effect here, and not the VAT reduction, which takes a lot of resources away from the budget, and it is not certain that it will help in the right place, perhaps the profit of the trader will increase with this reduction. Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you very much for this opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-14-68	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's answers. Dear Parliament, And now I give the floor to Congressman Béla Mihályi... [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] , KDNP Group. Here you go. There will be no more mistakes on my part, I promise.
u2023-06-14-69	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, The effects of the prolonged war and the failed Brussels sanctions policy have created a world economy environment that challenges Hungary, but we cannot let our achievements so far be lost. For this reason, in times of war, we need a budget that guarantees the country's physical and economic security, protects Hungarian families, jobs, pensions, and continues to maintain the public health system. Dear House, One of the first steps of Hungary's national government after 2010 was to stop the conscious rural and rural destruction of the Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments. Recall what happened before 2010 when educational institutions were closed down in rural settlements, the development of infrastructure between rural settlements was neglected, and continuous rural punishment measures bankrupted or indebted small settlements, and the health and social care of small settlements were completely dismantled. Without support, doctors have left the villages, the standard of basic health care has become unworthy of the people in the countryside. On the other hand, the national civilian government is once again on the side of the countryside. He has set the Hungarian village program to life, which, unlike the rural development programme of the left, responds to real problems, since the villages' own requests are incorporated into the support system. The aim of the Hungarian village programme is to ensure that the quality of life in every small settlement in Hungary is at least the same as in the cities at the level of basic services. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian Village Program Board is a good indication of the development of Hungarian settlements and the development of the Hungarian countryside at the border of the settlements. In my own constituency, the Csongrád-Csanád 2 constituency, more than 3.2 billion HUF support has been received from the ten sandback settlements near Szeged since the start of the programme. In the framework of the proposals, small settlements in the constituency could make basic infrastructure improvements from nearly HUF 1.5 billion. Without the need for completeness, let me mention some examples. Thanks to the support in the Astotthalom, inland roads, sidewalks and kindergartens have also been developed. In Bordány, besides renovating the roads, a bicycle road was built and the school building was renovated. A bike road was also built at source, and the doctor's office could be renewed. They built a market for local producers on five tons, and they could also get a village bus to transport the elderly. The doctor's office must have been completely renewed, developed the village house and built a playground for children. We also managed to renovate sidewalks, roads and renovate the village house. Ruzsa also renovated the sidewalks, the community spaces, and a service apartment. In addition to the purchase of the village bus, the hard-to-get inland roads were renovated. In addition to the renovation of the doctor's office in Zakányszék, thanks to the subsidies, the village house and the service apartment were renovated. In Zsombón, the cemetery, including the funeral home and several inland roads, was renewed. In the 2nd constituency of Csongrád-Csanád Várgye (Csongrád-Csanád Várgye) in the framework of the Village Road Fund, road renovations have been worth 1.5 billion forints since 2019, making the M5 motorway easier to access from the sandback settlements. [[14.50]] Within the framework of the Village Civil Fund, voluntary fire-fighting associations, civil society associations, sports associations, artistic, traditional and social organizations operating in small settlements were able to develop or organise programmes with support of more than HUF 115 million in the constituency. The prolonged war and the failed sanctions policy in Brussels put small settlement shops in a difficult position, so the government's support for the preservation and development of small settlement shops did not leave out small stores in the constituency, and they received nearly HUF 170 million in total for infrastructure development and operating support. The great example of rural development is two settlements of my constituency between 5 and 10 thousand inhabitants, Mórahalom and Domaszék. From government support in Mórahalmon a school was renovated, the industrial park was expanded, the external road network was developed and sports facilities were built in Domaszék, inland roads were renewed only in the last year or two. Dear House, I have just mentioned a few examples of the results of the rural policy of the last few years. Despite the difficult economic situation, the government remains committed to supporting the Hungarian countryside and small settlements, so thank you for the continued development of the Hungarian village programme and the region in 2024. That is why I ask my fellow Members, like the KDNP fraction, to support the budget of 2024. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-06-14-70	I would like to thank Mr Béla Mihálffy for his speech. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Member István Szabadi, Mi Hungary Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-06-14-71	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear House, According to Minister Márton Nagy, EU funds can be fully redeemed after 2030 through foreign investment in working capital, such as battery factories; however, the Mi Hazank Movement would replace it with domestic food production, manufacturing and the development of Hungarian farmers and businesses. This huge difference in the way the government and the Hungarian Movement think, as far as the budget is concerned: you have the interests of foreign capital, and the interests of the Hungarian people are the most important for us and the interests of our Hungary Movement. The government seems to want to encourage foreign companies to invest, as there is no state without EU funds and no retail investment due to high interest rates. According to the Minister, the inflow of working capital should exceed a fifth of the investment. But is it good for us to sell the country to China after the European Union? Fate is that, at the time, the recovery of capital investments was expected from accession to the EU. It was not in vain in the accession conditions to provide cheap labour for German assembly workshops, nor is it a coincidence that the so-called investment promotion target for support to international large companies based and owned abroad was set up before accession in 2003. This aims to facilitate the flow of working capital in order to stimulate job creation. The aid is granted on the basis of an individual decision of the Government. By now, we have seen Hungary paying a peppery price for the investments. According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, Fidesz, along with the Balliberal Governments, hand in hand between June 2004 and January 2023, provided HUF 8171 billion in non-refundable funding to 433 multi-company companies. The Hungarian State therefore took on more than 10 percent of the investment costs. This does not include the support of the huge battery plant planned by the Chinese CATL in Debrecen for 320 billion. According to György Matolcsy, a country's catch-up cannot be built on foreign operating capital, because we agree on a financial trap. It agrees with the import of advanced technologies, but not with the support of low added value sectors, such as the automotive and battery industry. However, from May 2010 until March 2013 he managed to allocate a non-refundable grant of HUF 22 billion to Audi Hungaria Zrt. and Opel Szentgotthárd Kft. The President of the Central Bank is reminded of the heavy industrial programme for battery production in iron and steel, whereas the Prime Minister believes that an industrial economy and industrial investment are needed. We're building gas plants to serve the major industrial centers. If Hungary becomes a battery manufacturer, Minister Csaba Lantos believes that domestic electricity consumption will increase from 44 terawatt hours per year to 68 terawatts per year by 2030, i.e. by as much as the annual production of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. Dear Parliament, It is clear that Hungary's economic structure is adapted by investment policy. We live on foreign transfers, we don't have our own organic economy, we have a colonial economic structure. The government is developing an energy- and material-intensive economy, while the country is neither, thereby increasing our dependence. Unfortunately, the Hungarian economy is based on the automotive industry and related activity on battery production, while these are the sectors most affected by the crisis. We have the highest inflation in the European Union because we have a crisis-sensitive economy. Hungary's long-term economic strategy seems to be written in Germany and China. The government's economic policy is about political survival, focusing solely on increasing GDP, which is not the same as economic development. Dear fellow Members, The real growth potential of the Hungarian economy is around 2 percent, and the higher value can only be achieved by forced investment policy. For example, in 2021 GDP growth was 7.1 percent, which is justified by the government's successful disease management. In fact, together with the MNB, an amount of 30 per cent of GDP was pumped into the economy, which had a significant inflationary impact. Government communication no longer stressed that, despite record GDP growth in 2021, gross national income, i.e. GNI, decreased compared to GDP. This means that there has been an increase in income outflow from the country, less new added value for economic development, remaining at home. A company contributes to the country's GDP with its pre-tax profit, depreciation of machinery, equipment and labour costs. In fact, the profits realised are being taken out of the country, the machines are being bought abroad in the first place, and the wages are not being spent by foreign migrant workers in Hungary. State-supported investments by multinational companies therefore increase GDP only on paper. For example, the HUF 700 billion investment of the Debrecen battery plant is planned to be completed in 2025, which means that just before the 2026 elections the Hungarian GDP will be increased by 1-1.5 percent on paper, which is very significant. The 1-1.5 percent increase in GDP is a huge increase, but as I said, this will most certainly not strengthen our national economy, because it exists on paper. I would also like to point out a budget magic trick. The higher the company's pre-tax profit, the higher the GDP, the multinationals receive tax and other discounts so that the profits of abroad's sites can also be shown here. [[15.00]] One way to do this is transfer pricing, which allows an international company to push profits from one subsidiary to another. The other tax optimization solution is that R &amp; D costs are shown in Hungarian subsidiaries, although they actually happen in the home country. It is therefore no coincidence that while Hungarian companies have an effective corporate tax rate of 9%, multinationals pay corporate tax of up to 4-5 percent on their profits after various descriptions and discounts. Unfortunately, such tricks do not increase our nation's economy. Last December, the Hungarian government also adopted the global minimum tax, according to which from 2024 the largest companies with a global turnover of EUR 750 million will have to apply an effective corporate tax rate of 15% to revenues. At the same time, they managed to ensure that companies also included local business tax in the tax differential. So they're barely gonna have to pay extra taxes, or if they have to, we're pretty sure the government's gonna come up with a loophole for them. Last year, multinationals invested EUR 6.5 billion in Hungary. According to Minister Márton Nagy, this should be produced on a continuous basis, because we need a new working capital of EUR 5-6 billion per year. The government considers foreign working capital to be equivalent to EU grants as they arrive in euro and constitute non-refundable capital. However, I would like to draw the Parliament's attention to the fact that most of the working capital does not come into the country in the form of cash, but rather in the form of machines and equipment. Moreover, they do not add that the premium paid by the State exceeds 10 per cent of the value of the investment. This includes state aid, tax and R &amp; D benefits, which are the basic logistics of state infrastructure development, energy and water supply, as well as foreign labour loan. Working capital is a one-off effect in the financing of the deficit, but the multinationals withdraw 6-7 percent of the country's profits annually in proportion to GDP, which makes the current balance of payments worse. It is not in vain that Minister Martin the Great has set the goal of keeping profits in the country, recognising that there is a problem in this area. The government expects a 1.5 percent increase in 2023 and a 4 percent increase in GDP in 2024. According to analysts, however, the growth of the economy will be between minus 0.5 per cent and plus 0.5 per cent this year and 3.5 per cent next year. According to the draft budget law, net exports will be the engine of growth in 2023 and consumption and investment in 2024. However, we object to the government's plans to increase GDP by increasing exports of not food, but machinery and means of transport. According to KSH data, 91% of manufacturing industries produce automotive production, 96 percent of electronics and battery production for export, whereas only 45 percent of food production exports. The Hungarian Movement also disagrees with the fact that the government's economic policy does not take into account any other element of national wealth other than the economy, the natural environment, the most important factors of which are agricultural land and water resources. Indirectly, production causing pollution and health problems also increases GDP, but it hardly contributes to social well-being and to improving the quality of life of Hungarian people. Based on national economic interests, high-quality agricultural land is cemented, and instead of the food industry, battery production is considered a strategic sector. Their thoughtless decisions serve foreign interests from scarce domestic budgetary resources, who reduce national wealth by their investments and push the country into colonial ranks. This budget also points to the fact that as long as the attitude of the government, which also determines the economic policy of the government, does not give Hungarian people much credit. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2023-06-14-72	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Font Sándor, President of the Committee on Agriculture, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2023-06-14-73	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Agriculture tends to be targeted when there's something wrong with it. This means that either there is a serious loss of profits and an emergency for farmers, or that food processors bring to the market a final product from the product they produce at a price that the residents find painfully expensive or can no longer afford. This was the previous year, 2022, when we were hit by a natural disaster. It is well known that 120 years ago, since the Hungarian agrimeteorological measurements, we were the third dryest year. And it is safe to say that if the Russian-Ukrainian war had not started, drought alone would have caused a significant increase in prices due to the depletion of stocks and the extremely low production volume, especially in terms of oil seeds, rape, sunflowers and maize, but there was a significant fall in crops already in cereals. And it is natural that this process has become even more drastic as a result of the war, to which it was necessary to respond. Thank God, our budget at that time was like that, and I draw attention to the fact that the draft of 2024 is also such that Hungarian agricultural production and the supply of food to Hungarian residents are provided in an emergency. I would like to emphasise that we should be proud that we can supply food to some 20 million people, so we can supply food to two Hungarian countries. And we practically can, because we export our crops over the supply of 10 million inhabitants, and then the budget usually has a very significant positive salvo. One of our strategic national economies is agriculture. This was confirmed by the then government with the actors in the agricultural sector in the 2010-14 government cycle, with the National Association of Hungarian Farmers led by the President, and it was confirmed that there was much more in agriculture than our predecessors thought. The mining of this surplus takes place year after year, which is sometimes broken by the weather that is extremely affecting the agricultural sector. It's been a few years. But anyone who looks at the time series data of the Hungarian agricultural sector from 2010 to mid-2021, ending 2021, sees that this is a steadily growing series of data, which is a very positive result for farmers as well. At the same time, we see that it must be the task of a government, and this is good for a budget and an approach that agricultural management is still doing within the government, in order to encourage Hungarian farmers towards efficiency, and perhaps towards digitalisation and the application of precision farming. Of course, this requires one more step backwards agro-higher education and agrarian middle-level education. Agrarian middle-level education is already a budget line and one of the steps in the functioning of the entire agricultural sector. Those who have been in agricultural secondary schools in recent years, thank God, have seen that today they can learn and work with machines that students there will also meet when they leave the school in life, as there has been a very serious technical development in these agricultural vocational education institutions. The government made a unique decision in Europe when, in the financial cycle 2021-27, it added 80% of the domestic share to the maximum permitted by the Union in connection with support from the Union for rural development. Let me show you what that's gonna mean. In the previous seven-year financial cycle, Hungarian farmers, investors and entrepreneurs were able to farm at HUF 1400 billion, while in the 2021-27 cycle it grew to HUF 4200-4400 billion, depending on the exchange rate of HUF 1400 billion. That's more than three times that! [[15.10]] With such an increase in resources, Hungarian agriculture has never met. Accordingly, in previous years, the applications for rural development have started, which, as I mentioned, has a guiding goal of where we would like to spend this amount effectively. And here it is important to be efficient, to increase productivity, in which we are lagging behind from the most advanced western technologies and to raise food processing to the highest possible level. We can already see that we can produce raw materials and agricultural raw materials at an extremely high level, and we have disadvantages in processing. This can well be traced back to the privatization of our food economy in the two government cycles of 1990-1998, to the western handing-off of our food economy, who then did not develop it, but stopped it from competing with their own products and flooded us after 2004, after entering the EU with their own products. A terrible struggle has begun to curb undesirable, often very low - quality foreign foods from these supermarket chains. An extremely large campaign has also been launched for the consumption of Hungarian products and for the regulation of supermarket chains, because they have sometimes acted harshly against Hungarian farmers. Thank God, this process is felt, shown, more and more people are looking for Hungarian food. This is also an environmental result, as the supply chain from producer to consumer has become shorter. It may not be necessary to come from overseas for these foods or food materials for thousands of kilometres on axles, truck or train axes. So this is also the greatest environmental protection when we encourage consumers to buy products from food producers as close to their surroundings as possible, and if possible this should be a Hungarian product as appropriate. As I said, the spotlight usually only reveals agriculture in an emergency, such was the period of the Covid virus epidemic, when, in fear, people immediately raided the shelves of the supermarket chains, and were immediately excited to have additional replacements. Until then, it was natural for farmers to slavle in peacetime, processors to do their job, and traders to pass on these final products with a large amount of profit. Then it became the year 2022, when the war cut off the usual, well-known transport routes, and there were shortages of raw materials, and a hysterical priceboom occurred in basic food. Those who looked at it or knew it in wheat had a price of HUF 50,000 per tonne in 2019-2020, then the peak was in September-October 2022, then 130 thousand forints per tonne, and now the wheat exchange for about 85 thousand forints per tonne. Last year, I am talking about the very large increase in food prices that many people have debated and criticised in inflation, and at that time, for example, bread has increased considerably. They often said that yes, the raw materials were very brutally, almost tripled in two years. But then comes the little deceiving thing, that, I'm sorry, someone knows that the price of bread would have decreased as much as a specific example, to the extent that the raw material price has dropped from 130 thousand forints/tonne to 85 thousand forints/tonne. It didn't decrease, I'll tell you, unfortunately. At the same time, farmers are experiencing a very serious conflict with this sudden drop in prices, and, more than that, based on the known EU decision, the very low quality wheat that comes in from Ukraine under duress. I just wanted to draw attention to the fact that agriculture cannot be blamed for everything, because there are intermediate operators by the time the final product, food, reaches the consumer, who, unfortunately, use seasonal situations to increase the end price of these products. I trust that the efficiency of the Hungarian economy, which has been steady and growing since 2010, is reflected in its effectiveness, its financial effectiveness, and that there was no need for demonstrations such as those in the Netherlands who have watched the events of the last few weeks and months, which means that sometimes there are problems to be solved in Hungarian agriculture as well, and that this is usually handled and handled by the Ministry of Industry, but there is no need for drastic intervention that would disrupt well-known mechanisms. The weather is great, in this, we feel that this year we may be in a better position than last year. I trust that, although we cannot say that this is the top budget for agriculture, because everyone can see the figures, but we are absolutely certain that the production of food materials and the supply of food to the Hungarian population will be 100% assured, and that if we bring only the usual form in the administration system, in the operation of villagers, in the school milk and school fruit scheme, only the forms known so far, then we can look forward to a calm year of 2024, at least from the point of view of the budget. There is no question that we will also propose the adoption of this budget. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-14-74	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Rebecca Szabó, from the Group of Dialogue. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2023-06-14-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, I do not know why we are debating so much about this budget here, when analysts have also said that this spring they will not be able to pinpoint the figures for next year's budget, and it may not be a coincidence that last year's budget, i.e. 2022, has managed to amend the regulation of the Fidesz Government 95 times; I will be curious that they will deny it. This European Commission, who examined the budget in its numbers, has also read 60 amendments in articles, so I wonder what the real number is then. The thing is, since there's been an emergency, and you guys have been able to change everything by order, laws, other laws, and since then, they've been living with it. In any case, it is also tragic how high inflation is in Hungary and how this is the highest among the countries of the region. You always try to blame this on something else, on sanctions and other things, but we in the Dialogue Green know it, and unfortunately, the Hungarian people are increasingly aware that this is the result of your poor governance and poor economic policy. So it is no wonder that this budget is actually a austerity budget. You are again trying to save money on the Hungarian people. They're putting the price stops and the mandatory shop operations as a hoax, but the truth is, you're cutting down public services and raising taxes, so you're clearly using austerity. After all, because of your mistake, we do not get the European Union's subsidies, and because they like to put the rest of the money in their pockets, it is practically not going to remain for public services. Even when the news that independent MP Ákos Hadházy noticed was released just a few days ago, you managed to purchase the city centre project in Zugló, which belongs to Bayer Construct Zrt. for 244 billion HUF. The leader of this is István Tiborcz's former business partner, so his ties to the government are quite obvious. They started building office building complexes there without asking the residents of Zugló about it. You declared this a major investment, and then bought it for 244 billion forints. I don't know what this is, if it's not a public waste, especially if it's about half the teacher's wage increase. So the thing is, when it comes to cuts, it's not true that there's no money, but there's no money for people, but there's always money for stuffing your own oligarchs and all your business partners with money. And for what it's worth, there's no money: the Dialogue-Greens as a left-wing green party, and I'm basically trying to see the budget now from a point of view of how much it listens to sustainability and green perspectives. Now, I could tell you briefly that I'm not, but I'm going to explain this a little bit longer. Technically, they don't care at all about what's in the 21st century. The most important challenges facing humanity and Hungary in the century are: the fight against the climate crisis, the adaptation to the effects of the climate crisis, or even the reaction to the problems arising from the eclipse of natural life and the destruction of nature, or at least to some degree to halt these harmful processes. Not only do you not deal with this, but you are taking action in the opposite direction. [[15.20]] One important topic is transport and public transport. Obviously, on the one hand, because everyone in Hungary does not have the money to drive, on the other hand, it is not beneficial from an environmental sustainability point of view, so it would be very important to improve public transport. Compared to this, János Lázár recently announced that the government did not buy the already contracted and much cheaper electric locomotives from Siemens than the current market price. At that time, the press had all sorts of speculations that they might not do so out of political vengeance, but the truth is that the explanation is probably much simpler: the Orbán government, as proud of the appearance of sovereignty, probably walked like the anecdote said the communists were running out of money. However, I think that governance must mean more than that you are able to spend European taxpayers' money. So, in truth, although rail is the most sustainable and the smallest carbon footprint of Community transport, and many billions of euros are spent everywhere in Europe to modernise these railway lines, next year's budget support for rail transport is considerably HUF 330 billion less than this year, even though this year wasn't enough to keep this service at least at a level. This is a very large number, while budget support for road transport is increasing by nearly the same amount. This may not be independent of whether this money is already paid directly to Lőrinc Mészáros, who owns the concession. I think that if someone wants to know what the Orbán cabinet, which is the one you like, thinks about sustainability, it's enough to read this number pair. At the same time, it is important to say that Hungarian rail transport is also in a tragic state in a regional comparison. According to the railway trade unions, the technical condition of locomotives produced mostly in the 1960s is already a threat to daily operation and the health of drivers; they are often forced to work in locomotives with poor texture, poorly ventilated, low visibility, without air conditioning, which may otherwise be linked to the number of railway accidents. I myself was an individual candidate in the 7th district of Pest County, and it was quite tragic to observe the tragic state of the railway line between Budapest-Lajosmizse-Kecskemét. Most of the line has a speed limit of 40 km/h, trains are diesel towed, stops are not accessible, parking lots are missing, bicycle storages are missing. On these trains, crowds of people try to enter Budapest every morning and spend practically an hour and a half on the train in terrible conditions. It is quite simply that the 21st edition of In the mid-century century, there is an average of 40 km/h in the middle of Europe, and I think it is tragic. Of course, there are promises to renovate this flight, this line, there are plans, but for the time being, the locals haven't reported that this has happened yet, and as far as I can see, if they lose 330 billion, that might not even happen. Of course, we know you guys are gonna be sitting on a helicopter and a private plane before a train. That's a big problem. Just recently, our proposal to tax private flights and private helicopter roads was rejected; it could also be a revenue leg for the cost of sustainability. In addition, in the history of the entire regime change, you will lose an unprecedented amount of 254 billion from environmental protection, for which there is neither a proper reason nor an acceptable explanation. Given that in the year 2024 [[Sic!]] Tragedy droughts and lightning floods are changing, and the government agencies called the environmental authority function as NER investment agencies, a declaration that Hungary has reached the limit of its inability to operate under the government of Viktor Orbán. So this withdrawal, I think, is a sign of this, that the country has reached the limit of its inability to function. By the way, a few weeks ago, it was even a week ago, last week, that floods even killed people in Hungary, and these floods... Ricken, which we have repeatedly indicated is not going to be good, that there is so close to the people's residence, there was a muddy sea spilling on the village; it is indeed a miracle that no one died there. I would therefore like to say that these lightning floods can also be prevented to a significant extent, but this requires a sustainable way of using landscapes that does not only look at economic profit. Whether this requires compensation, thinking about landscape use, sustainable forest management, not cuttings, but string farming, and a number of things that require a complex programme, and that would require money, but you would rather be lost from environmental protection. Thus, practically one of our most important constitutional rights, the right to a healthy environment, cannot be guaranteed. They also withdraw money from national parks that preserve the country's natural resources, reduce their expenditure in rem by 20 percent instead of raising inflation, and otherwise dismiss 10 percent of their employees and eliminate jobs. In fact, this also indicates that you are trying to save money everywhere in the state administration, although I am quite certain that, I do not know, the number of State Secretarys could be reduced, but that national parks should not be subject to austerity. Unfortunately, we do not stand by our natural values in such a way that we can afford it. So you are, in effect, endangering Hungary's natural heritage and its natural treasures. Unfortunately, animal protection still does not receive any substantial support from you, even though we can clearly see that civil society organisations in the field of animal protection are trying to do what I think is a state task so that we do not drown in stray cats and stray dogs. Here, too, they have a huge debt, and they have been promising for years that they will provide predictable support for animal welfare organisations. By the way, we in the Dialogue-Greens have already tabled a number of proposals, which is not apparent from their budget. It would be very important to support other civil society organisations, not only animal protection organisations, but also other civil society organisations engaged in nature protection and environmental protection or awareness-raising, but there are only falling resources for them year after year, virtually nothing seems to be happening in this year's budget. So, in fact, your budget is an anti-environmental and antihumanist torturing the most fundamental facts of sustainability. I think that they would not have dared to present this in any European country where they would take it seriously that the government was responsible for Parliament. But here in Hungary, unfortunately, I have to say that the majority of the Hungarian government consists of nodging Johns, so here they approve everything they put before them, like the bad memory of Schmitt Pál or Áder János, I might say. Orbán once called this team 133 brave men in a more jestful moment, but unfortunately I see that this supposed courage does not extend until they really act to protect the future of their children and grandchildren. So we do not really have any illusions that you will support any of our amendments, but we, if not primarily to you, but at least to this part of the country, would like to present a sustainable budgetary alternative. We were not trying to consider the aspects of how we are trying to serve the political survival and overgrowth of Viktor Orbán and your asset transfer, but we were trying to observe that in ten years we will have clean drinking water, clean land or clean air in this country. This is why our amendment aims to enable Hungary to make a fair, green transition, which means that we are moving towards sustainability in such a way that we are paying for it not with the people in need, not with the masses of people, but with targeted subsidies. The key element of our amendment proposal is the "green transition" fund, which ensures that there is a resource for the country's most urgent tasks, maintaining ecological balance and adapting to the climate crisis, so that we can all survive. One important element of this is the energy modernisation of apartments; you promised this in the 2010 campaign, but you still owe it. We propose 250 billion forints in order to restore the energy efficiency of buildings; we also think of condominiums, family houses and homes, and for this we do need to give support to people. [[15.30]] And not only so that we can meet the climate targets, but also so that these people have a better standard of living, and by the way, we don't have to pay so much for the rent that will serve us to Russia, but I'm not going to do that now, because I could talk here until tomorrow night. We would also like to help the municipalities to adapt to climate change, because this is also a task that they cannot cope with alone, and we know that you are not a strong supporter of the municipalities anyway. Our proposal will give back the money that has been taken to distributed public transport, i.e. that 330 billion, and we would also like to secure a surplus. We would also like the local authorities to support sustainable public transport through the central budget and the various social policy toll subsidies; we would like to give a large amount of HUF 500 billion more for Community transport than you have otherwise envisaged in your proposal. It is very important to switch to water-preserving landscape management; we need to tackle floods and droughts at the same time. The only way to prevent this is to preserve the extra waters in nature, which we spread at this time, so they won't sweep away the villages, the human settlements, and then we can farm in the summer during drought. This requires changes in landscape use, or removals from cultivation; this requires compensation, money; we would spend 190 billion forints in the order of magnitude and 135 billion forints for agricultural and municipal climate adaptation aid. But we would also like to devote concrete amounts to the establishment of a national animal protection fund, the rehabilitation of our large lakes for nature conservation purposes, so not to cement the lakes with your support, but to ensure human use in the long term by preserving the ecology of the lakes. In addition, it would be very important that, for example, what I was talking about a while ago is that we are using biological methods to kill mosquitoes and not to spread chemicals all over the country, as you normally do, which, of course, is dangerous to insects and humans and wetlands. So we'd like to provide an extra source for that, too. It is also important to provide funds for adult education programmes that create green jobs. I would also like to mention here the support for the creation of energy communities, and perhaps two more points. On the one hand, the basic income that we have been saying for a very long time: it is important that people receive a fair and just basic income, which would be enough to say that no one in this country will starve to death. We would like to launch a sample project with a 100 billion-dollar framework for this, and we would also like to give indirect overhead support to those who do not have the resources to do so. We would like to give this to those in need in a targeted way, with a hundred billion-dollar grant. And what we'd like to add to this, I'm going to have to talk about this later with Bence Tordai. There are a lot of things that could be redeployed, and large multinational companies could be taxed. For example, the amount of money you give to batteries in the Far East, which, of course, only destroys our environment, exploits workers, uses the water of the country, cements the agricultural land, and we would not, for example, give them that much public money or spend the money to build the plumbing there by Lőrinc Mészáros companies in overpriced public procurements, but, among other things, use these funds for fair greening. This is, therefore, the dialogue-Greens budget proposal for a sustainable, fair and green Hungary. Thank you for your attention.
u2023-06-14-76	Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Mr Péter Benő Banai, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said. Mr. Secretary, I give you the floor with all my heart.
u2023-06-14-77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Allow me to add a few points to what the congresswoman has said and to clarify some of the information she has said. The first thing is how seriously the government takes the budget that Parliament has adopted: I can say that there is no 60-90 legislative amendments, regulation governance or amending the budget. Congresswoman probably thought that the government would make transfers within the limits given by Parliament in order to implement the budget. If, let's say, we provide resources to municipalities from the Retirement Fund, it is a budget transfer; if we redistribute funds from provisions to implement wage increases, it is the implementation of the budget, not a modification. So let us make a distinction between whether or not the budget is changed and whether the budget is being implemented. I would like to thank you for the list of 60 or 90 items that you said to me, and perhaps then we can work together to understand what this is about, amending budgets or implementing budgets. I also think it is important that, in recent years, the government has implemented the budget within the limits set by the Parliament; we know that this has not always been the case. Constraints, that's the term the congresswoman used in the budget. I would once again make a distinction between austerity and maintaining budgetary stability. Why do I say that? We called austerity measures where a government intends to achieve the budget balance by reducing the support of families or reducing workers' wages. We have seen this from the Hungarian economic history; we have actually called these measures austerity. On the other hand, I think it is a series of budget-saving measures where, in addition to leaving family benefits unchanged, in many cases, in addition to increasing incomes, the budgetary institutions carry out a particularly economical farming. I think this is what we see in the budget of 2024: wages are hopefully going to rise in a number of areas, both in the competition sector and in the public sector. There was talk of a wage increase for nurses after doctors, as a multi-stage wage increase for nurses has been behind us in recent years, or we have also talked about the wage increase for law enforcement workers, defence workers or teachers, and, yes, the operation of budgetary institutions is characterised by a particularly economical farming. So I wouldn't use the word austerity in relation to next year's draft budget law. As far as environmental protection is concerned, I also draw attention to the fact that a number of government environmental measures are not included under the combined title of environmental protection. She is right in that there are years when, after an investment has run out, a lot of the environmental or rail investment line is reduced, and she is right in that, but I would like to point out that there is an agreed climate protection action plan in the field of environmental protection, there are many elements; I will not burden the Honourable Parliament with this, but let me mention some of the items. Eliminating illegal landfills: Started in 2020 with the "Clean up the Country"! A program. If you look at the WasteRadar app, you can report where illegal waste is. Since 1 April 2021, we have cleaned our environment of well over 1500 tonnes of waste. We allow you to redeem glass and plastic bottles and metal boxes. Restoration of living spaces; the representative mentioned national parks. Over the past 12 years, 460 individual investments have been made by national park directorates, and the environment has improved at some 300 thousand hectares; habitat reconstructions have been carried out in Hanság, Tihany Inner Lake, Kardoskút, Fehértó, the Danube-Tisza branch. Foresting. I think that this is also an important area; it is not among environmental expenditure that you find the item. The forest area in Hungary increased from around 1700 hectares in 2000 to 1900 hectares in 2020. More than 22 percent of Hungary's territory is now covered by forest; by 2030 the target is 27 percent. We plant 10 trees for each born child. [[15.40]] In addition, we could talk about the steps taken to spread green energy, we could talk about the home renovation programme, where the government did support energy efficiency investments, and I hope that in 2024 we will have the EU funds to finance retail energy efficiency programmes, for example under the recovery fund. Finally, Congresswoman had a statement that you are not strong enough to support the municipalities. Let me say in fact, however, that the first steps of government after 2010 included taking over the debt of more than HUF 1300 billion by the municipalities. This has taken place in several steps, so I repeat, I would like to nuance the expression of how the government is related to the municipalities, in this past, just in relation to this measure. But on the other hand, in the budget of 2024, I see that the direct budget support of the municipalities is increasing by HUF 80 billion, and beyond that, if a representative woman looks at the largest revenue of local authorities, then we see that it is business tax revenue. Next year, the surplus local government revenue related to the 4 percent economic growth is 190 billion HUF. If Hungary had only achieved economic growth after 2010, which is the average of the European Union, then there would be hundreds of billions less business tax revenue from local governments. I think it is also due to this that, in the difficult situation of the pandemic and the war, the sum of local governments in the joint commercial bank account and sovereign debt, if the capital is taken out of the picture, has increased by the end of 2022 compared to 2019. I repeat: I have in my hand the data of local government's own accounts, compared to 2019 the resources in the commercial bank account and sovereign debt increased by the end of 2022 with the exception of the capital city, and the combined amount of sovereign debt and commercial bank savings in the general government system decreased significantly compared to 2019. So overall, I think that next year's budget will also ensure the stability of the funding of the municipalities and will also focus on the areas that the representative woman has criticised. I agree that, of course, there is still work to be done in the areas mentioned by you, but I am arguing that the budget would not allow us to solve a number of problems in addition to 4 percent economic growth next year. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-06-14-78	I thank the Secretary of State for his answers. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Member István Simicskó, KDNP Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2023-06-14-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Let me begin by expressing my joy at the fact that, perhaps, more than ten years ago, we have now broken up with the tradition of getting excited at the end of the year about the country's budget for the following year. I have been a Member of Parliament for 25 years, which is a great honor for me, so I have been involved in a number of budget debates, and it was true that between two holidays and Christmas, we had to sit in and argue at night, or there were meetings until dawn. So, leaving this tradition, I think it's important to have predictability in a budget, and it's important that the Ministry of Finance does its job in such a fair and timely manner. Ladies and gentlemen, Sándor Márai says that the world is not only bright and dark, but also often confusing, it is the same now, because we are living in wartimes, migration plagues Europe as a whole, migration quotas are adopted in Brussels, they make completely incomprehensible decisions, they make some self-indulgent and Christian decisions that do not strengthen our civilization, but also dissolve it. This is certainly sad, but one thing is certain that budgeting in this troubled world is obviously not easy. It was not easy during the Covid epidemic, but it is not an easy task in the war period, so I do it every year, and I feel that this is necessary now, because the Ministry of Finance has done an excellent job. On behalf of the KDNP fraction, we thank Minister Mihály Varga and Minister of State Banai and his team for their great work and congratulate them. Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, the budget always expresses the social, economic and security objectives of a government, a political era in the language of numbers, which is reflected in the language of these figures in the budget before us. I believe that the necessary resources for the public tasks that must be carried out will in any case be available if this budget is adopted. I do not want to talk about the role of the state for a long time here, but obviously there are distribution and redistribution tasks, so-called allocation tasks for the state, economic recovery tasks, and, of course, security tasks, especially during a war period. Obviously, I would like to say a few words about the budget of the security bodies. I would like to explain this and to commend it, but before I get to that point, let me say that obviously these state tasks are also built very nicely on the hierarchy of human needs created by Abraham Maslow, which we all know well. For we know that the foundation, after satisfying physiological needs, has the need for security at the next level, of course, the importance of community, love, feelings of belonging to people, the importance of self-esteem, and the potential for self-realization. So I believe that, overall, these needs are reflected correctly and precisely in the budget in the functioning of a state, both tailored and tailored to individuals and communities. I refer here to the fact that if there is security, if there is no such war, there is a strong sense of security in people within a society, including in Hungary. Security seems natural, but when there is a war, we also need security in a physical sense, and, of course, the need for security extends to existential security, which I do not have to say, is particularly important in today's world. So, when we are living in a war period, there is a war going on in our neighbourhood, obviously a country's budget must respond to this, and this is quite rightly a serious increase in defence, security and police, which guarantees the security and protection of Hungarian people against external threats against war. Defence expenditure increased by more than eight times compared to 2010. When I was a minister, from 2015 to 2018, we could count on a budget of 400-450 billion. Now this is a budget of nearly HUF 2,000 billion, the defence chapter, Chapter 13 in the budget. This includes the sports sector, with HUF 162 billion, as sport was also added to the Ministry of Defence, but the chapter source of exactly HUF 1985.4 billion is a significant increase and provides sufficient guarantees that Hungary will be safe and that the protection of Hungarian people, Hungarian families, will be resolved. We have achieved the great goal that was set in NATO at the time, and we have also said and joined this, because our main goal was the protection expenditure of gross domestic product, the 2 percent GDP, and we managed to achieve this by taking out the budget, from the defence budget, to provide pension for retired soldiers. So this provides a targeted guarantee that the defence and military development programme can continue, and procurements that are absolutely necessary for the modernisation and modernisation of the Hungarian Defence Forces can continue. Law enforcement spending has also increased nearly threefold compared to 2010, now we see HUF 860 billion more than before, with a total budget of HUF 1300 billion for law enforcement agencies. Ladies and gentlemen, I pointed out that, back in 2016, we made an important decision to develop the Hungarian Defence Agency, a ten-year development plan, which has many elements. Obviously, resources are available to achieve these objectives as soon as possible. There is also a budget for the development of the defence industry, with an appropriation of HUF 105 billion for the development and strengthening of the Hungarian defence industry by 2024. There is a great need for this because these capacities have long since been available, and our predecessors have ignored it. [[15.50]] There are also specific resources for the acquisition of new instruments and for defence innovation. I would like to draw your attention here in parentheses, obviously this is a professional question, a military issue: it is very important to examine and review the experiences of the Russian-Ukrainian war. As far as I know, this work is going on in the government, because it is clear that the importance and role of combat drones will increasingly determine the outcome of the war. It's a new weapon, it's developed enormously over the last few months, this technology, technology. So, obviously, it would be nice to have domestic development, but it would be nice to have the wallet think about it in the procurements. Obviously, I am also trying to draw the attention of the defence government and encourage them on this path, as we can see what developments the Turks have made in the case of Bayraktar drones, what drones Iranians have compiled, and the Russian army is using them, but Russian developments have also started, not to mention American developments. In 2017, I was able to encourage the defence to develop a drone development strategy. Let us hope that this, too, will move forward with greater momentum. I think it's worth the sacrifice. The development of the spatial reserve system is also included in the programme and sufficient resources are available. At the time, we set out to have a reserve of 20,000 people in the Hungarian Army; obviously the 19 counties, plus Budapest, this was the aspect of having about 1000 reserve units available per county. I think it's an excellent program. They're about 13,000 now. I also think that the development of the reserve system is progressing, and the necessary resources are available for further strengthening. We consider it important to strengthen social relations, and this is included in the defence budget. I'd like to refer you to the military cadet program here in the first place. This was also launched in 17th, then three secondary schools applied for this task, and now they have contracts with more than 130 schools in the Hungarian Defence Service. There are over 7,000 cadets in the 14-18-year-old population. I think this is a huge success story, a huge achievement, because young people are the future, and our young people are able not only to stand up in the virtual world, but also in the real world, in reality, and if they experience a kind of military pre-training within the framework of cadet training, this will also enable the recruitment work of the defence and the strengthening of the future of the Hungarian defence. We are also talking about high-schools in Hungary and Hungary, and rightly so, the number and number of these are increasing. We've established the Defense Sports Association. I would like to say about the Defence Sports Federation that it has had over 500 member organisations since 2017. More than 200,000 people can be reached by the Defense Sports Association. He organizes defence camps, organizes shooting competitions, organizes obstacle races, I think a very useful social relationship, and he can also help the Hungarian Defence Office in the recruitment work. I would also like to draw attention here to the fact that we have launched a programme, thanks to which five defence sports centres have been built in recent years. These are the five locations: Baja, Balassagyarmat, New White Lake, Szigetvár and Szarvas. They are fully used, so the young people in the area are running out, practicing sports, fighting sports and technical sports. So if we give you the opportunity and the infrastructure to perform and practice these tasks under the right conditions, with the right masters and instructors, then there is a need for this, so it is a good opportunity to further strengthen the reserve system in this way, as reserve security soldiers can practice, shoot or meet young people, and make you feel like a military life, a military profession. I don't see any sign of that in the budget, but it's worth looking at up to 25, because these five are working now. If we already have a county network, so if there is at least one defence sports centre in each county, it is relatively easily accessible to young people living in county settlements in different settlements. Obviously, the great goal would be to have defence sports centres per walk, to bring these facilities even closer to the people, but we know what the situation is, there is a war situation. I consider this to be a defence development, as I believe that defence sports centers are also defensive rooks, as they are also suitable for training young people for military pre-training. Dear Parliament, I think it is important, and this is also reflected in the defence budget, so that the Military National Security Service has sufficient resources, because in a war situation it is important to have sufficient information, as accurate, credible information about the war as possible, and obviously also about the development of forces in neighbouring countries, about various security risks, and it is important to remove them. The Military National Security Service was joined together and the Military Intelligence Bureau and the Military Security Office were assembled about ten years ago. It's a well-functioning organization with excellent professionals doing their job. From what I see, this HUF 54.6 billion is a sufficient resource for continuing quality work. Dear Secretary of State, Obviously, it is particularly important for the Christian Democratic People's Party to have support for families, the spiritual care of soldiers, and thus support for the field ministry will increase by about HUF 66.5 million overall compared to the previous year. So 256.5 million forints is available to strengthen the faith, spirit, and spirituality of soldiers. It is important, especially in times of war, that we pay attention to this, because we are human and soldiers are human. Therefore, it is important to further develop their individual equipment, but their spirituality and spirituality are also important, because I believe that as an individual, as a human, as a community, there is real power in our spirituality, in our faith. But then, of course, we need different means to protect our country if we get into trouble. But if spirituality is not right, then there is trouble, despite the good means and modern means, it will not be as effective as if this strong, cohesive community and spirituality persisted. Let me say a few more words about sports. Also, I missed it here, and there are stipend development and refurbishing programs, and I saw that there were about 20 billion in the amount of money to improve the barracks, service and living conditions. I also believe that this is a sufficient guarantee that the appreciation of soldiers will be further strengthened by the government. Sports has been in the defense wallet since 2022. It was a big change, but obviously the system is working, it's clearly visible. Sport is a strategic sector for government. The government is a sports-friendly government, the Hungarian nation is a nation that loves sport. We want us to become an athletic nation, so let Hungarian become an athletic nation, make ourselves healthier. Anyway, we should never forget, Ortega said that life should be understood in a sporty way, so he talked about the sporty concept of life, and he suggested in this thought that, obviously, sport has not only physical and willpower-development significance, but we can bring a very important value from sport, and this is fairplay, sportyness, which means that if we live our lives in a sporty way, we can develop a more qualitative human relationship in the community where we live, where we work. So that's why I think it's important to support sport. The HUF 162.2 billion appropriation provides a sufficient opportunity for both the key metropolitan clubs and the various sports professional associations to do their Olympic preparations properly, and obviously the NSÜ will receive HUF 8.2 billion in support, including the Sports Hospital, with the support of OSEI of approximately HUF 3 billion. I feel that they provide sufficient guarantees that Hungarian athletes can successfully participate in the 24th Paris Olympics and enhance Hungary's reputation in the world of international sport. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I see that in a very difficult time, in a wartime budget, we have a prudent, thought-out and responsible budget ahead of us, and I therefore call on my fellow Members to support the budget in the final vote as well. The KDNP faction will support it. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-06-14-80	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Bernadett Bakos, the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2023-06-14-81	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The country's budget is an infinite set of numbers, in fact the practical implementation and impression of a government's policy. This shows what problems the government identifies and what solutions it provides. In addition, 2024 is a particularly important budget, given that the country is hit by the worst crisis in the last decade, inflation is on the loose, wages are being devalued, energy uncertainty, education crisis; there are therefore many problems. Looking at next year's budget, however, the picture is unfortunately tragic. While it has been quite clear over the past year that the economic model based on Russian energy and the unlimited service of foreign large companies is completely uncompetitive, the government seems to have closed its eyes, accelerated, even though the wall is getting closer. [[16.00]] The essence of green policy is sustainability, and this budget is another milestone in an unsustainable economic and social policy. For a green party, this budget is only good enough to be able to determine the right direction in relation to this, and it can tell us what changes would be needed in Hungary. This budget should not be redeployed, but rewritten from the beginning, because this budget will not solve it, but deepen the problems that already make the country and the people's lives miserable. This budget, for example, does not mean a change in the policy of taxing people and almost exempts companies that squandered hundreds of billion-dollar profits from public burdens. There is no group in Hungary today that does not feel the weight of the crisis on its own, except, of course, multinational corporations, because, as it turns out, in the NER, it is not, in fact, the basic law that is granite, but the tax relief of multinational companies. The first step of the green turn is to force the largest, most proficient companies to bear a proportionate and fair public burden, but there is no sign of this in the next year's budget. The losers of this budget are the people again, and the winners are the multinationals. Consequently, this budget does not break with the seriously unsustainable process of deleveraging the quality of public services year after year due to the downward tax competition for foreign large companies. Today, there is a serious lack of resources either in health care or education or in the social system, but the government does not seem to have any intention of changing that. While there is no soap or doctor in hospitals, while there is hardly any paramedics, while the recording numbers show that there will be no one to teach in a few years, the government is smiling at submitting a budget in which it does not even intend to respond to these problems. This budget is proof that Hungary today has a government that does not want to solve, but wants to deny the country's most serious problems. And last but not least, there is a serious energy crisis all over Europe today, but this is not the result of war. The situation is the other way around: war is the consequence of the fossilized world order that has developed over the past decades. This war is not the first and last crisis of this world order, but we see that this crisis affects Hungary the most, and the reason for that is that Fidesz has not protected the country from the dangers that await us in the last ten years, but has made it infinitely vulnerable to them. During the 2008 crisis, everyone could see that it was a mistake to base the Hungarian real estate market on foreign exchange loans to this extent, and then the government came, and the Fidesz government banned foreign currency loans. It is at least as clear now that it was a mistake to rely solely on Russian energy on the country's competitiveness, because we have thus made the country extremely vulnerable. However, the government refuses to acknowledge this, refuses to draw conclusions, refuses to sacrifice to make Hungary more crisis-resistant, and even struggles to further increase our vulnerability by bringing energy-eating battery factories into the country and building gas power plants to serve them. This is as if they were fighting to re-distribute foreign currency loans in 2010. We think it's more than a mistake, it's a sin. The only logical response to the current energy crisis is to reduce dependence on imported energy. Every kilowatt energy produced at home will make the Hungarian people safer. As we are a poor country in fossil energy, the only realistic response to the current situation is a radical green light, a significant increase in the share of renewable energies and energy efficiency programmes. And the exact opposite is happening today: they are not promoting renewable energy, they are banning it, they are not insulating buildings, they are building stadiums. We believe that the opposite should be done: significant public resources should be used to increase the share of renewable capacity and to implement the necessary improvements. It cannot happen again that people themselves want to install solar panels on the roof of their houses, and the Hungarian government has to say no to this, because in the past decade it has failed to implement the necessary infrastructure improvements. It is not possible once again that the government would allow the protected forests to be cut down, because it has forgotten to isolate the apartments in the last ten years, which would help reduce the household rent and the country's vulnerability both permanently. [[The chair is occupied by Dóra Dúró, Vice-President of the Parliament.]] In order not to repeat these problems, we need another budget, because what we are debating here does not give us an answer to the problems, but does not even want to know about them. And in 2024 we're gonna waste another vital year, we're gonna move on to another year at a dead end of unsustainableness, and we're just hoping we don't reach the wall yet. In such situations, time is crucial: it is now decided which countries will succeed in the changed world in the next decade, and while the other countries are running the race of the next decade, we are still going in the wrong direction with confidence. Unfortunately, this budget shows that we will remember 2024 later as another wasted year for which we will pay a higher price than ever before. Thank you for your attention.
u2023-06-14-82	Welcome, fellow Members. Two-minute speeches will now take place; first, Mr Balázs Barkóczi, from DK. Here you go.
u2023-06-14-83	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear House, I would just like to respond quickly to some of the points that have been raised here in this debate, in particular to Mr Rétvári, State Secretary. I'm sorry he's not here anymore, but I hope you'll look back at the video of this speech on Facebook. I do not assume that Mr Secretary of State would not have listened to my speech or misunderstood, so I must think that he misunderstood on purpose. Then I say slowly to make it clear to everyone: During the administration of Klára Dobrev, everyone will have equal opportunities in public education, whether it is children who go to church or not. Unfortunately, this is not the case: you support the church institutions at the expense of state institutions. I usually smile very well when you tell me that you won't allow Brussels, that you're at war with Brussels, that this government shouldn't be told what to do in Brussels, and then, in the case of educators' raises, who do you point to? Lying to Brussels. Let me be clear: the 45 percent wage increase that the Democratic Coalition together with the trade unions would already have funding in the budget, which is HUF 285 billion. Let me not say the sources, I have done so many times, including in this debate. This would be a substantial help for teachers, not a 10 percent increase in the wage supplement for inflation in Orbán above 20 percent. And then let's look at the funding for education. You can say that you spend more money on it than last year, but the truth is that in 2011 you received 4.7 percent of your education, and next year you will receive 3.9 percent. Although this year's spending on education is increasing nominally, it is decreasing in real terms by 13%, and this is equivalent to HUF 800 billion at 18 per cent inflation. That is what you are drawing from education, and this money, this 800 billion, is expected from Brussels, by the way. There he is. If you guys don't take this away from funding education, you've already got the funding to raise your teacher's wages. Thank you. [[Gergely Harvester applauds.]]
u2023-06-14-84	The next two-minute comment is independent Congressman Ferenc Varga. Here you go.
u2023-06-14-85	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear House, At the previous stage of the debate, there was talk of the situation of nationalities, and there was a sentence here that all 13 nationalities in our country owe a great deal to the government. Well, not in my opinion, but I can admit that there is no Roma advocate in the minority committee, because I think that the Roma nationality of the 13 nationalities owes you virtually nothing of the last 13 years. They have a huge problem with catching up with the Hungarian gypsy, so much so that if we ask anyone on the street today, otherwise tell us what comes to mind about catching up with Fidesz, then immediately Florian Farkas and the Bridge will come to mind the work world. 13 years of unlimited power, EU resources poured into sacks, zero catch-up is practically your balance of the Hungarian gypsy. Then they also say that education is the most important element of catching up. But what do you do with education? Let us confirm what my fellow Member, Barkóczi, said earlier: as long as 4,7 percent of GDP was spent on education in 2010 or 2011, today this rate is 3.9 percent, i.e. you have taken close to 1 percentage point out of resources for education; education is being destroyed, teachers and students are being threatened, and revenge laws are being adopted against them. In such a system, how do you think a student from a disadvantage can manage? About one percent of gypsies reach higher education. I don't think you should be grateful for that. [[16.10]] If the power of a nation lies in a multitude of educated heads of people, then I think that you cannot afford it. Thank you. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-06-14-86	He also asked for a two-minute word from the Jobbik faction, Congressman Róbert Dudás. You have the floor. Here you go.
u2023-06-14-87	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, As far as the so-called weight tax is concerned, it used to belong to the municipalities. It was for the municipalities, and it was absolutely right to expect the residents of the settlement to have their roads and sidewalks under constant maintenance and repair. First they took 60 percent, then two years ago they took 40 percent. It is not planned for next year's budget, and it is highly likely that it will not be planned to be returned to them by 2026. The roads, the sidewalks, the trenches and everything that appears as an essential element of everyday life in a settlement, especially in a small settlement, cannot, at present, be used by the municipalities because this revenue was taken from them, and also because a number of other sources of income were taken from them. You are constantly punishing the municipalities. Not all of them. Not all municipalities are being punished. They look at which settlements voted pro-government and which settlements voted opposition leaders. Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, In all settlements there are opposition voters and pro-government voters. I think that they are equally valuable members of society, all of them, whether they are oppositionists or pro-government, but they think differently about many things in life, but I think that is not a sin. The sin is to punish them or the entire settlement. You support the mayors, who you think should be supported, but not the mayor, but the settlement. Thank you very much.
u2023-06-14-88	We will return to the forward... [[For signal:]] However, we will not return, because Secretary of State Peter Benő Banai has applied, so I will give you the floor. Here you go.
u2023-06-14-89	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Dear Parliament, Mr Balázs Barkóczi, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that if we looked everywhere at expenditure-related levels of GDP and held, let us say, the 2010 rates, then it would be logical to say that our general government deficit would be somewhere in the sky. So we would not be talking about a deficit of less than 3 per cent, and we would not be talking about reducing the government debt rate, but about the fact that the country would continue to be practically on an unfunded path. The other thing I note in this regard is that, yes, there is a change in GDP-related indicators. However, this is also due to a significant increase in GDP. Thus, on the basis of Eurostat data, Hungarian GDP is significantly higher than it was in 2010. If we look at Eurostat data, I will say again, in 2010, Hungary's development was around 66 per cent of the European Union average, with the latest figure showing a level of almost 78 per cent. In fact, in education, I can say that, not only nominally, but also adjusted for inflation, the amount of education expenditure increased in real terms compared to 2010, and this increase could also be achieved in 2024 if the Parliament accepted the Government's proposal. Of course, within the expenditure on education, we expect that we will be able to use the European Union funds for Hungary, so we also ask for the cooperation of Member and opposition groups. As regards Mr Róbert Dudás's affairs concerning local governments, what the government took and what it did not take. Congressman, you know very well that the state has taken over HUF 1300 billion in debt from the municipalities. And if you look at its tax rates, I repeat that the largest tax revenue of local governments is the business tax, which could increase by nearly HUF 190 billion next year compared to 2023. On the basis of the local government's own accounts, the funding of the municipal system is stable. The sum of the combined commercial bank and sovereign debt, with the exception of Budapest, is higher in 2022 than before the pandemic in 2019. Finally, I propose to Mr Ferenc Varga that you listen to Mr Attila Stojka's comment yesterday, the catch-up of the Roma. He actually told me the data, Congressman. Roma employment has increased more than the average national employment growth in recent years, which, by the way, meant a million additional jobs. I repeat, the increase in employment among Roma has been much greater. Mr Stojka spoke about the school programme or Roma schools. I think that one of the winners of the economic policy of the last few years, in my opinion, was the Roma community. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-14-90	We are now returning to the list of speakers announced in writing, where Mr Törő Gábor is next, from the Fidesz faction. Here you go.
u2023-06-14-91	Madam President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear House, The prolonged war, the unstable world economy environment, the negative effects of the failed Brussels sanctions policy are also challenging Hungary. However, we cannot afford to lose our achievements so far, so in times of war, we need a budget that guarantees the country's physical and economic security, protects Hungarian families, jobs, pensions and continues to maintain the system of liability protection. In the budget of 2024 more funds will be allocated to defence expenditure and the Defence Fund will be strengthened. The family support system will be renewed, family tax incentives will remain and the resources of the Rezief Protection Fund will also be secured. According to the agreement with pensioners, the Government of Hungary preserves the value of pensions in wartimes, guarantees the increase in inflation-following pensions and guarantees the payment of the 13th month pension, which has already been fully rebuilt and increased. I would like to talk about the maintenance of the pension scheme, the protection of jobs, the further provision of family support and the preservation of the real value of pensions. The war and the failed Brussels sanctions policy have led to a significant increase in energy prices across Europe. The Hungarian families pay the cheapest energy prices in the European Union, even in the midst of the penalty energy price increases, thanks to the measures that have been maintained since 2013. In 2024 the Rezsivédvédelmi Fund will remain in 2024 to protect the government, as in recent years, against an increase in unpredictable energy prices on the world market, thereby ensuring the financial security and energy supply of Hungarian families and companies. The Trust Fund exceeds HUF 1360 billion in 2024, which is covered by the extra-profit tax and other revenue. We continue to expect those sectors which make an extraordinary profit in this war situation to contribute to the protection of the country. The government also prioritises the support of Hungarian families, childbearing and child rearing in recent times of war. In addition, the benefits of the family tax system, the personal income tax exemption for women raising at least four children and having children over the age of 30, and the personal income tax exemption for young people under the age of 25 will continue to be ensured. In addition to the renewal of the family support system, there will be 3.5 times more family support than in 2010. The combined sum of family policy spending and tax incentives is thus over HUF 3300 billion. The protection of pensioners is also guaranteed in a war situation. The increase in inflation-following pensions will remain, the 13th month pension fully rebuilt and increased in 2022, and pension premium will be paid if economic growth permits. The amount of budgetary resources available for pensions and pensions increases to more than HUF 6540 billion, which is the largest item of the budget. The 13th month pension, which the government spent nearly HUF 450 billion on in 2024, remained fully rebuilt and increased. [[16.20]] Dear House, The 2024 budget was made in wartime. While a few years ago it seemed unimaginable to have a war in Europe, it is now happening in our immediate neighbourhood and we have to face its consequences. In the current situation, the possibility of a prolonged war must be taken into account, and in this case it is particularly important that all the results that we have achieved in recent years can be protected. Of course, full physical and economic security would be guaranteed for Hungary if there was a ceasefire and peace as soon as possible. I ask this House to support the adoption of the budget for 2024. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-14-92	Before I give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, I would like to inform you of the order of the other speakers, since we have largely deviated from the order announced in writing. We will now have Congressman Gergely Arató from the DK faction, and then we will be in the order of Congressman László Földi, Ágnes Kunhalmi, and then László Tasó. Now I can give the floor to the Member, thank you for your patience. Here you go.
u2023-06-14-93	Thank you very much. Madam President, Dear House, The thing is, I am listening to you here all day long, and I see that you are much more interested in talking about 2010 than you are talking about what you are doing and how the country stands and how the budget stands. It's not a coincidence. The budget for you hasn't been a fact literature for years, it's fantasy, some kind of fantasy, a dream about what you want, what you think, what you hope for, which has nothing to do with reality. It is enough to remind you of the ugly fall of the 2023 budget, which was shamelessly amended in a government decree before the entry into force, which is, of course, a blow to the face of parliamentary democracy, and then, after that, it was rewritten from virtually zero. It doesn't take much fantasy to tell you that the fate of the 2024 budget will be similar, choosing starting points that have no basis for reality. But once again, there's no reason why you'd rather talk about 15 years or 13 years ago than about this one, because this budget is a disaster budget. No, this is not the war, but your incompetence, your poor governance, your thoughtlessness, your unimaginativeness. This is the budget for tax increases and price increases. It's obvious that the government is in a money vacuum mode, taking everything it's worth. They increase excise duty and do not refer to the European Union. The European Union is important to you right now, couldn't you just ask for a derogation? Was it not important to protect the Hungarian people now? Is it only important in any other case? When it comes to their own pockets, it is important that they fight with the European Union when it comes to protecting citizens, isn't it? They tax or increase the interest tax on bank deposits, but I can see today that they are already begging in the CRETA system and encouraging citizens to buy sovereign debt there. They are clearly in terrible trouble, they are in great trouble, and they have no idea, only tax increases and restrictions, but only price increases. This budget is not intended for 1% inflation, but for strengthening inflation in Orbán. The result of this budget will be that, let alone in substance... let alone one-digit inflation, but even the decline in inflation will be very slow. And I know that you like to refer to war, sanctions, galactic space council and the great lords of Sith, but the thing is, if it really is the war and the penalty, then I would like to ask you: is it not the other European countries, the war or the penalty, just Hungary? Is inflation only going to triple as the EU average in Hungary? Do you think anyone would believe that? Well, at least if they do it in a movie, we're gonna watch it, but we're not gonna believe it. The thing is, you refuse to face reality, you refuse to... except, I'm sorry, except for György Matolcsy, who recently has some clear moments, but the leaders of economic policy are still clearly unable to see where we are, what they have caused, and because they have achieved this, what mistakes they have made. The thing is, we are always happy, and I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the fact that a tiny spark of truth flashed in his speech when he admitted that the share of education in the national total product was reduced. [[Péter Benő Banai intervenes.]] In essence, it acknowledged that the budget deficit was restored by cutting off educational expenditure. I have to add that not only education, but also health care, pensioners and social services have taken out a lot of resources. The truth is, you guys are happy to talk about GDP growth while you've had it, not so much talk about it, because GDP is falling, but as long as GDP has increased, you haven't given this extra power to people, not education, not health care, not social benefits, but your own pals, the Fidesz billionaires, you've been filling your pockets with this money. This is the money that is missing today from education and health care and social... I could continue, from culture, and it would be a very long line. 'Cause the thing is, this budget has one real winner on the expenditure side. You know what the pro-peace government is happy to spend on? I'll tell you what: buying a gun; that's the one. But it's not because they want to strengthen the country's defence ability, it's because how should I put this delicately? In large arms purchases, they can collect adequate private profits. Because if it were important to strengthen defence capabilities, they would not otherwise destroy Hungary's NATO relations, they would not make Hungary a pariah in our joint defence alliance, surely they saw today's news that the US Senate refused a serious arms acquisition for Hungary because you do not strengthen, but weaken this alliance in times that are truly critical from a defence point of view. Now, that's your defense policy, but of course, you're welcome to buy a gun, because then someone can go hold your hand from your clientele, your billionaires. There would be a source, and there could be a tax increase, a tax increase that we would agree with. I'll tell you where taxes should be raised: where there really is an extra profit, casinos, tobacco stores, garbage concessions, highway concessions. Well, you could be there. There, we would also support tax, included in our proposed budget and in our future tax proposal. Let the billionaires pay! Pay the fidesz billionaires! They're the ones who need to be burdened, not the people. You have to ask them for resources. As far as the EU resources are concerned, it is a great honour to be constantly pointed out that we have no EU resources, but the fact is that you have no resources. You are the ones who refuse to meet the basic conditions of the rule of law. You're the ones who refuse to give up the right to steal. You can't even say you don't know what to do, because the Democratic Coalition, on a proposal from the Shadow Government, has submitted proposals on this, which you have not even been willing to put on the agenda. It turns out that it is more important for you to be able to fill your own pockets and strengthen your own power than to have access to EU funds. And then don't refer to the fact that the European Union doesn't pay teachers the increased wages, because in this budget, too, there would be a source if they wanted that, no, the Prime Minister and Secretary of State had a source of a ministerial salary increase, the European Union didn't need it, but it is true that it is not important for you, they believe that they can make such a cheap propaganda out of it. How does this budget affect Stone and Kispest? Let's talk about that, too. Well, I'm not saying that you've been very clever in choosing government investments in Stone Mine, but now all the things that the local Fidesz mayor boasted about and boasted about your candidate in the campaign are all being stopped. There will be no Spidey Egon art academy; there will be no multifunctional sports hall; there will be a huge hole in its place; there will be no sports league; nothing you have promised will be built. That is why we have submitted our alternative budget, where we are not only going to fix the budget rates, but we are not just going to put the money there to raise wages, to fix health, education, to compensate pensioners, to increase social security, where this is really necessary, but also to tell you what the investments needed are in individual cities and villages that the residents really want. [[16.30]] This proposal includes, among other things, the investments that the Kőrösi Csoma Sándor Sports Centre has been urging for many years: the renovation of the swimming pool in Képest, the renovation of the market in Készpest, the Kőrösi Csoma Sándor Sport Centre? I'm sorry, I've been thinking a little bit with your head, so culture is important to us, not only for sport, but also for example, the repair of railway stations in Kőbánya and Kispest, which you have promised every year for ten years, and you never do anything. Of course, there are also important capital issues for the people of Kőbánya and Kispest: public cleanliness, the development of public transport, the promotion of vehicle purchases or the support of resources for the maintenance of roads. Finally, we have a number of other proposals in this proposal, of course, for energy investments that are important to municipalities, businesses or the population. There is a renewal of the panel programme, a much wider renovation programme, including support for the installation of residential solar and wind power plants and support for the energy modernisation of businesses and municipalities. So Klára Dobrev's shadow government knows what to do. If all you can do is cry and complain about sanctions and war and cry and complain about the fact that the European Union will no longer allow you to steal EU funds, then you are unfit to lead this country. Stand up, confess your crimes and leave the electorate to choose a government that can lead this country. [[Sándor Font: The poverty is dreaming!]] Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-06-14-94	State Secretary Péter Takács, State Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior has applied for a speech. I'll give you the floor. Here you go.
u2023-06-14-95	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Members, gentlemen and ladies, Very briefly, to correct the slippages of Congressman Arato. You're the ones who pulled 600 billion out of health care. [[László Varju: It's hard enough when someone lies! Gergely Harvester: Now! That's what you're talking about. Talk about this budget.]] Visit fees have been introduced, hospital daily allowances have been introduced [[László Varju: We need to talk about some respirators, Mr. Secretary of State.]] They've been experimenting with paying higher education, and they've shut down several schools, and they've put 15,000 teachers on the street. I'm just going to give you a very brief summary of the facts, and we're going to measure our performance. And about health wage development, that during a crisis, you reduced doctors' salaries by 20 percent; I know that because I was also subject to this reduction. During our governance, we have increased fourfold, and, by the way, we have nearly doubled, for example, the pay of doctors during a crisis. And the laborer's wage increase programme, which we started in 16th, continues now, continues again this year. From July, we increase the labour wages by 18 percent, and if you study the budget, HUF 240 billion will help you next year: from March, all the workers, nurses and healthcare workers will receive a very significant increase in wages. So I think, if you look at the slick facts, the congressman's slides won't hold up. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-06-14-96	Among the speakers announced, our next speaker is Mr László Földi, from the KDNP faction. Here you go.
u2023-06-14-97	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, . Non-fertilising flats, mountains, minerals, climate [[...]] They make the public, but the mind that can use them sober. These words were spoken by Széchenyi at the time. I think that the most important element or key feature of the debate on the central budget can be sobriety. Obviously, this budget has upset a lot, but I think it is the greatest virtue of this budget, that it has thought through the country's problems and problems sober. We all know that the paper can handle everything, but the country can't handle everything. [[Gergely Harvesto: And how right he is!]] That is why I think it is very good that the government, in the very difficult present, has built the common register of the nation in a sober and realistic manner, in view of the uncertain future. Ladies and gentlemen, It's a time of war, it's a terrible time to say it. That's not what our generation and the next ones after us have been settling in for. We all believed that weapons would no longer be raging in Europe, and we even saw that, thanks to the political, social, economic and institutional changes that drew the terrible lessons of the Second World War, the immediate threat of global bloodshed had also been exiled to the pages of the history books to which it belongs. [[Resume 72/2!]] 2022-2026. parliamentary term Budapest, Wednesday, 14 June 2023 72/2. Number Parliamentary Diary What happens in our neighborhood, however, is not fiction or fiction or fiction and fantasy, but literal bloody reality. A war in which Hungarian people die, and there will never be a winner. We can't be responsible for this situation, but if that's the case, then we have to deal with it. And in times of war, we need a budget of protection, a budget that protects the country's security, families, jobs, pensions, and cuts in wages. Above all, however, we must protect our pro-peace. Hungary does not sit up for the instigation of war between the international world and the Hungarian left, the Hungarians want to stay out of this war. As legislators, our priority is not to let our achievements so far be lost. Last year, the economy grew by 4.6 percent, with only 1.5 percent this year, but next year we are expecting a 4 percent increase. The budget is balanced, public debt and inflation remain on a downward path. We must guarantee the country's physical and economic security. For this reason, we Christian Democrats also welcome the fact that in the budget of 2024 there will be more money, nearly HUF 1310 billion in the Defence Fund, the family support system will be renewed and family tax incentives will be maintained, and some HUF 1360 billion of the Rezségvédelmi Fund will be guaranteed with the maintenance of the extra-profit tax. Next year, we will keep one million new jobs created since 2010, as well as the value of pensions, and we will also pay the 13th month pension. I would also like to draw your attention to the importance of combating increasing migratory pressure, as unfortunately Hungary can only rely on itself to protect the borders that are now under siege by human smugglers. Therefore, there are plenty of tasks, so I appreciate that the budget of 2024 also has a central reserve of HUF 220 billion, equivalent to around 0.25 percent of gross domestic product. Dear Parliament, I would like to explain two issues in more detail about next year's budget. The first is the protection of families. Families are seen as the strongest bastions of our national prosperity, so we still consider their support to be of paramount importance. This basis of our national strategy, the family support system, is constantly being reviewed. Depending on experience and the possibilities of the budget, we try to fine-tune it so that it continues to help all families. This complex system of more than 30 measures, which interacts with several sectors, is recognised at international level because it uses innovative solutions. We agree with the government that the protection of families must also be ensured in times of war. It is therefore to be welcomed that the benefits of the family tax system will remain next year, that women who have at least four children and have children under 30 years of age and that the personal income tax exemption for those under 25 will continue to be guaranteed. The combined sum of family policy spending and tax incentives exceeds HUF 3300 billion. This means that in 2024 there will be more than 3.5 times more family support than it was in 2010. As a representative of small settlements in Pest Vármegye, I also consider it very important to continue the program of the Hungarian village. It is worth recalling that the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments conducted a conscious village-breaking policy, punished rural Hungary, forced urbanisation to depopulation small settlements, bankrupted municipalities by indebting them to a total of HUF 1369 billion. [[16.40]] In particular, settlements with a population of less than 5,000 people accumulated almost HUF 85 billion in debt. Also, let us not forget that left-wing leaders released foreign exchange-based loans to the country, with which they served only Western European and banking interests until 2010. In 400 small settlements the education was completely discontinued, 38 railway sidelines were stopped for passenger transport, the agricultural land was sold out and doctors were driven out of the villages. The sins of left-wing village destruction could be long-standing. In contrast, the civilian government took over a debt sea of HUF 1369 billion from the municipalities, terminated foreign exchange loans, fixed interest rates, and launched the Hungarian village programme in 2019, which has since resulted in more than HUF 1000 billion in support. This programme is written by the villages themselves, as their requests are incorporated into the support system. Our goal is to ensure that the quality of life at the level of basic services in every small settlement is at least the same as in the surrounding cities. In four years nearly a thousand small-town kindergartens and schools have been renewed. In 1700 towns, we developed preschool playgrounds or public playgrounds within the framework of more than 2200 projects. From HUF 10 billion, we could apply for the development of crèches, we supported the purchase of medical and protective equipment at 2 000 locations, and during more than 600 projects we developed medical clinics. In my constituency, almost every settlement of less than 5,000 people benefited from these goods. Since 2019 we have renovated nearly 3,700 kilometers of back roads within the framework of the Rural Road Fund. This year, a further 1,000 kilometres will be developed. 2800 village shops received HUF 8 billion operating aid. This meant the preservation of shops in two or three settlements in my constituency. Since the introduction of the village CSOK, population growth has restarted in more than 1,200 small settlements where there has been a loss of population. I can also say that there is no village in my constituency today where you can find an empty house. The houses are sold out. The application system and the support of small settlement shops will continue to work. Dear Parliament, With the launch of the Hungarian village, we confirmed the belief that Hungarian villages have a future, so it is worth staying there, working there and starting a family there. I ask the government to do everything in 2024 for the people of the countryside, for the inhabitants of the small settlements, for the survival and development of the villages. This will be ensured in next year's budget. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-14-98	The next speaker from the MSZP faction is Ms Ágnes Kunhalmi. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2023-06-14-99	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary of State! I would like to start by saying that I agree with the opposition representatives before me, whose criticisms have shown that the 4% increase planned for 2024 is essentially unfounded, and we believe that the government is clearly underestimating the 6 per cent inflation. In my own speech, I will deal with the situation of education a little bit more, and I will also have questions to clarify, because there are some things we do not really understand. However, I would like to point out that, over the past 13 years, the Fidesz government has radically withdrawn from financing welfare functions. Allow me, as a social democratic left-wing politician, to examine the area since 2010 through these glasses, that a government, if any, the budget for the year, is a travel plan, as Mr. State Secretary said, as a whole reflects the intention of a state, a political force. As left-wing politicians, people's well-being and welfare spending have always been important to us. I am not saying that the balance which Mr Secretary of State has always referred to must be completely released, but that it should be reflected in my opinion in the priorities. Fidesz politicians constantly stress the extent to which welfare spending has increased compared to 2010. This is a completely different picture if you look at the figures in relation to GDP. For example, in 2010, educational activity accounted for 5,49 per cent of GDP, but in the revised budget allocation of 2023 it was only 4 per cent. In the case of healthcare, this ratio is 4.55 in 2010 and now 3.8. There is an even stronger decline in pension benefits, where it was 10.45 in 2010, and today it has fallen to 7 percent. It's not politically reflected in the retirement society, but you didn't give your 13th month pension to the pensioners 12 times. This, by the way, is seen in the decline, in the expense. For other social security and welfare expenses, the fall is spectacular, from 7.45 to 5.5 percent. Overall, 31 per cent of GDP came to finance welfare functions in 2010, this year only 23.2 per cent. But I also looked at what Fidesz was making money for. For example, certain economic functions. This includes the establishment of the oligarch system, the new right-wing capital class and its conditionality. But the state spent a lot more on itself than it did before 2010. Then I could also say the church; the concentration between the church and the state is very clear; and, therefore, sport, which is a very important nationwide factor for Fidesz. These are the things that have been well spent, as opposed to welfare spending. It is therefore quite clear that the objectives of the Fidesz government in terms of economic policy and power policy have often been achieved at the expense of social well-being. Let us look at the situation of educational expenditure in more detail. Between 2002 and 2010 the share of GDP in both budgetary institutions was higher each year than in all education activities since 2011. Compared to the revised budget for 2023, the budget will have an increase of HUF 629 billion in budget expenditure, which will amount to HUF 3434 billion. This is 4 per cent of GDP planned for next year and therefore does not represent a meaningful step forward. And once again, if I look at the 2010 5.49 data, it's still missing. More detailed data show that secondary education institutions are in a particularly difficult situation, while there is indeed progress in higher education, but the beneficiaries of this are primarily higher education institutions with public foundations and not state institutions. But if I just look at the framework of kindergartens and elementary schools, it's going to grow to a lower rate, 6,6 percent. This means for me that these institutions lose even if inflation increases slightly better than the 6 percent the government expects. High school must be in bad shape, their budget is only up by 3.5 percent. But I have to add that there is an other educational line, but the amount for this has been increased by 26 percent. It is still not visible, and here will be my question, that the budget would provide funds for the radical increase of teachers' wages. My first remark would be that the minimum income limit referred to in the Status Act was set from one to the other, and I do not see a limit. I would also like to remind you of this in front of me, former Minister and fellow politician István Hiller, my MSZP colleague, said that Viktor Orbán and the government had a promise that they would tie the wages of teachers to the minimum wage at all times. That would now mean more than 95 percent wage increase for teachers. Since the Prime Minister and Fidesz have withdrawn this, they have broken a voluntary promise, so don't be surprised that at least some of the teachers are dissatisfied, and they are protesting. The biggest problem with this withdrawal is that from now on there is no guarantee for anyone that, if these resources came from the European Union, you would keep the promise that they would really raise the wages of teachers radically and backed up by guarantees. I would also like to ask you what the European Union has to do with financing an area of national competence. If anyone can give me an answer, maybe it's you, because you're in charge of the budget. Education is an area of national competence that you are responsible for the national budget and should therefore be raised from the national budget. [[16.50]] I find it shameful that the European Union, at the expense of the Community budget, would otherwise decide to help finance a nation state in an area of national competence. For years, they have seen that education is underfunded, and country reports are constantly being prepared. Obviously, that's why they decided to help with that. But I ask you, the government says this money is ours. Mr. Retvári told me yesterday that I shouldn't ask for this because it's ours. I also agree with Mr Retvári saying that there is no unconditional life. If we want to finance an area of national competence from a Community budget, then Hungary must pay attention and be aware that Hungarians' money, Romanian money, German money and French money are included in the Community budget. Don't tie it, don't worry about the European Union. I want these money to come. Where I'm going in the Socialist Party family in Europe, that's why I'm lobbying. But basically, you, a government so sensitive to your sovereignty, are building a policy on this, so how can you expect it from a community budget anyway? [[Péter Cseresnyés: Agreement!]] Now, here's where my dear fellow Member says the agreement on the left, that is, in a sense, from the right, to me from the left. But then I will ask Mr Secretary of State to answer this, because almost all elements of the status law go against this agreement, and so it is, and this is the operational programme of human resources, which says exactly that, I copied it, and my question would be, if this is not met, because, by the way, the government is saying exactly the opposite, almost all elements of the status law go against this agreement, then how much money will come out of this agreement, he says: the government and Parliament will not unilaterally introduce the status law increasing the workload of teachers, we know how many people leave the field, based solely on the continuous, substantive, social dialogue with the largest teachers' unions, in particular with regard to acquired rights, we know the rules of public employment that limit existing professional autonomy or reduce the attractiveness of the profession. It is now possible to argue that the government will otherwise complete the negotiations or not. In my opinion, the amount of negotiations is not equal to the quality of the negotiations, but it is possible to hold on to it in the effort to reach out. I understand, but if there's a paragraph in the Status Act that we're going to discuss here on Friday, and I don't want to talk about that, but if there's no money out of it, how will the government provide funding for an area of national competence? I think it's just a matter of political will. If there's money for Vodafone and everything else, I think there should be money for that, too. Well, then, that's it. The only thing I would like to say is that I am not only a politician of education, but I am an individual Member of Parliament in Budapest. in the vicinity of the region. This is a very beautiful district of South Pest with over 100,000 inhabitants. It's a very nice district, very nice and very valuable people. They deserve the attention of the government, and if their individual elected representative asks for money in certain areas, it will be financed. In the first place, I am saddened to see that funds have been taken from a large number of municipalities in the country over the past few years, so that the 18th century has been used as a source of funding. From the district, too. Approximately HUF 6 billion was withdrawn annually, which does not shorten the political opposition, but the people who live and live in these districts and municipalities. In addition to all this, without the need for completeness, just to have the record, we would very much like to have the XVIII. in the district, to solve the energy modernisation of the Béla Kondor Elementary School building. We would very much like to ask for money on Nagykőrösi út XVIII. also for the renovation of the district section. We also want to provide money and I have tabled an appropriate amendment to the energy modernisation of the local government's building on Üllői út, or, for example, Üllői út XVIII. refurbishing the district section. Although a lot of it was towed, we started very, very grinding, but we can't fix this without a central budget. Or, for example, the construction of the Vörösmarty Mihály High School and Primary School gymnasium. I'm not against sports, but I believe in mass sports more basically. So I'd like to ask for money for that, too. But there is the construction and procurement of the diagnostic wing of Zoltán Pockets Specialist. I would like to note here that in the framework of Healthy Budapest, the capital and the government have concluded a contract. As far as I know, you're in default here, and now you're probably two years behind, because the government isn't paying for it, but I'm sure government officials will correct you if I don't say it correctly. So it would be good if we had this money, because then we would be able to finish it. We have a very, very super district music school that we would ask the great gracious government to provide some money to renovate its roof structure, because it has wonderful training with wonderful teachers and wonderful children, and we do not want them to get wet. But I could also say, for example, that the 18th century I don't have an audition yet, but I'll tell you what, I'll see if I can break through the walls. We also have a super-good museum, the Tomory Lajos Museum, and a small amount of money would be good for the renovation of its third phase, and last but not least, the renovation of the Rose Cultural House, the entire modernization of its theatre hall. It provides fantastic cultural and other experiences for more than 100,000 inhabitants. So, as an individual representative, I submitted these amendments, so if at least one or two of them were to be heard, a hundred thousand inhabitants would be very pleased to see the XVIII. in the district. Thank you very much, Madam President, Honourable House. Secretary of State, thank you for your answers in advance.
u2023-06-14-100	Mr Péter Banai asked to speak again, so I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2023-06-14-101	Thank you, Madam President. Dear House, Not to abuse the patience of this House, I would respond very briefly to three things. Congresswoman spoke about welfare expenditure, including expenditure on education and health. And Mr Gergely Arató said that, in a previous reply, I acknowledged that budgetary stability was due to a reduction in expenditure on education and health. I'd like to record that, of course, I didn't say that, but I did say the opposite. So, both compared to 2010 and 2023, the bill before you increases the amount of expenditure on education and health in real terms, both nominally and adjusted for inflation. Once. The other thing. Within educational expenditures, where can the teacher raise be found? Why are we funding it from EU funds? This is on the allocation of provisions for next year's draft budget law, and the underlying funding is indeed EFOP Plus. I must correct Mrs Agnes Kunhalmi's claim that the funding of the teacher's wage increase will be at the expense of the EU budget. This is how Congresswoman said that the European Commission must, or I, misinterpreted it with its own money, put in here. No, it's not that. There is a dedicated framework for Hungary. This has been approved by the European Council and the European Parliament. This is for Hungary. This is the Hungarian framework. Now, if there was a consensus between the Hungarian Government and the European Commission that it is appropriate to provide additional resources for raising the wages of teachers and that this could be financed from EU funds, there was no obstacle to this being included in the operational programme containing the details of EU funding. This has been approved by the European Commission. So I see no problem in financing teachers' wages from the public funds at Hungary's disposal, including European Union funds, and, of course, in the longer term, this will clearly be fully charged with the central budget. But again, this is not about the European Commission taking money from somewhere else, so that Hungarian teachers can have money. No. This can be done from resources allocated to Hungary. The third thing. Congresswoman used the term "municipal withdrawal." If you think of the solidarity contribution, I would like to say that there are very significant differences in the income situation of the Hungarian settlements, 16,6 percent of the population lives in Budapest and its districts, but 40.5 percent of the business tax revenue is present here. 32 percent of the population lives in municipalities and 10.8 percent of business tax revenue is present here, so there are more than six-fold income differences. If left-wing parties consider solidarity to be important, I think they accept that the additional income of richer, better-mode settlements can be partly financed from other poorer municipalities. [[17.00]] The solidarity contribution is therefore the revenue of the budget chapter containing municipal subsidies. I hope that the revenue of the business tax of the district or parts of settlements represented by you will increase in 2024 by, for example, the possibility of financing the improvements, the financing of the cultural house and other developments that the Member mentioned. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-06-14-102	We will continue the debate with the speakers who have been announced. In the framework of this, it will be Mr Tasó from the Fidesz faction. Here you go.
u2023-06-14-103	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Parliament, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Presents, Hungary's budget for 2024 was presented in the usual manner, it was put before Parliament, yesterday the Minister of Finance said his expozee, the general debate started, the proposals for amendments came and there will be a very serious debate, and hopefully we will accept the budget at the end. This is the process of this, but it must be added that this is the most important legislative opportunity for Parliament, its most important law every year. Now, when we are preparing to adopt the next budget for the following year, however, a number of circumstances need to be taken into account, which is not normal. We know that there is a war near us, and circumstances have come to light that we may not have noticed. It can be seen that Europe has suffered a very serious loss of position in recent years, and we can also see that it controls processes from overseas. It is very difficult for Hungary to remain in this environment and to do the characteristic government work we started. And this is also made more difficult by the fact that there are people in Hungary who support this process and make it difficult for Hungary to thrive. In any case, it has to be said that the actions that took place in Hungary after the war and initiated by the European Union were, in our view, mistaken steps, but, in any case, caused problems that were difficult to deal with. Hungary is now forced to rethink a lot of things so that it can continue the characterical work that focuses on Hungarian families, the interests of Hungary, our pensioners, our companies and the future of Hungary that we have planned together. It is also extremely important to point out that many people are working against it. It cannot be ignored that the damage to the country is caused by those who are trying to hold back EU funds, taking steps to strengthen this process. Occasionally, they also go to the scandal, trying to figure out everything in order to help European bureaucrats who are not friends of Hungary. Now it seems that these steps are gaining ground, and Hungary is struggling without EU funds. So when we talk about EU funds, what do we say? In 2004, when we joined the European Union, it was clear that we were handing over our markets, letting in foreign capital and the big capital that was in Europe, but in return, we were getting subsidies for catching up. It was clear that cohesion funds were given in order to succeed in making a step change for Hungary, which greatly improves our competitiveness. These resources therefore belong to Hungary and cannot be given. Returning to our budget, we must continue to emphasise that we have planned a 4 percent economic growth and that we hope that inflation of 6 percent will definitely remain. We hold the budget deficit below 3 per cent which is extremely important in the European field. It should always be added that Hungary has been able to, and will be able to, reduce its debt in the coming years, bringing it from 69 percent to 60 percent, as planned in 2024. It should also be added that employment in Hungary has greatly improved, higher than the average of the European Union. We have very important work to do, as Hungarian families must also be protected from increased energy prices and their uncertainties. There were extremely great steps that helped us to survive the difficult months that were behind us. We hope there will be a relief, but regardless, the future cannot be calculated. We can continue to hold on to the support of families, which many have told us about, who we give a discount to, what age groups, mothers with four children, children under the age of 30, children under the age of 25, and, of course, we continue to support the upbringing of our children. It is extremely important to know that we take care of our pensioners as we have done, and pensioners in Hungary can count on the preservation of real value in their pensions. It is also an important fact and a clear result that if we can keep up the 4 percent economic growth, we will be able to have a pension premium. Why do we care so much about our pensioners? Because we are talking about our parents, our grandparents, and we want them to be able to live as they are for a Hungarian person of that age. On several occasions, my fellow Members have also made statements about health, but it must always be said that there is a great number, but there is not enough and there is not a great number that we cannot and should not turn to health. The research has just been mentioned by the Member, and I think it must be said that research support has, after all, increased enormously, regardless of the need for much more money, and no one will dispute it. But to do so, we need EU funds, and even if we have an agreement, we need to make sure that it arrives in some way. The Hungarian government is counting on EU funds the following year. If I remember the number correctly, maybe HUF 3600 billion would come from the 2014-21 closing, which would be eligible if I remember the numbers correctly; and we also have to add that Hungary will pay 692 billion in 2024. So we also have a contribution to the European Union budget, so we are not just taking it out. And why do we need the EU's resources? Because with the arrival of EU funds, we can replace and replace other elements of the central budget. Of course, we could use it in a thousand places, but it would be possible, among other things, to fund teachers' wages. It is very important that we also get the loan that we took out together with the countries of the Union, and now, if I remember correctly, we are talking about HUF 770 billion, which would be due the following year in proportion, if I remember correctly. Overall, it is HUF 2400 billion if my numbers are right. It is very important to add: no matter how much money there is in the local government sphere, it now seems that the government sector has a budget of HUF 4186 billion, but we still need to add HUF 1050 billion, and we need to add at least that much more, because we need the resources and the money for each settlement. Unfortunately, there is quite a difference between Eastern Hungary, North Hungary, Central Hungary and Western Hungary, and we also have to add that we have not managed to catch up to as much as we would have hoped. We have just heard some important figures about Budapest, but we also have to add that 36,5 percent of Hungarian GDP is connected to Budapest, so it is a huge force, it is an economic power that is good for Hungary, but we have to pay attention to the difference that this makes in our case in Northern Hungary. In Northern Hungary we reach 47 percent of the EU average, in Budapest this figure is 154 percent. In the north-Hungarian region, we are 47 percent with the three county seats. If we look at 47 percent, if we took out Debrecent, Nyíregyháza and Szolnok, we wouldn't be around 40 percent. So there is a big difference between 40 percent in the North Great Plain and 154 percent in Budapest. So you can imagine how much our settlements look forward to EU funds, so that we can move on, so that our settlements can increase their strength of preservation, that our children don't leave us. Therefore, they are very much looking forward to Sleepy, in my constituency, because we need a service house, and we need a lot more road construction. Their kindergarten, their nursery is ready, but they're obviously full of plans. In Bagamér, precipitation canalisation should be continued, and road construction would require resources again, but this requires the TOP source, which can also be started and paid with EU assistance. It is also important to expand the kindergarten in Bocskaikert, the nursery has already been completed, it is in progress and, of course, road construction is needed there as well. In Debrecen, the interior section of Highway 471 in Debrecen is now being built, but there is still a lack of resources, as we still have one remaining one-kilometre section, which has a very high budget demand and, of course, the most important element of large investment. It would be important for the northeast bypass section to be built around Debrecen, since it has already been built in other parts of it, and the solutions that involve the construction of the first stage are a huge congestion. In Philip, it would be necessary to build the missing two-kilometer section towards Paul's House, so there are plans to use EU funds. In Hajdúhadház and Bocskaikert, and in Brickal, it would be great if the four lanes of Highway 4 could begin; and, of course, there are the ideas of Hajdúhadház for road construction, rainwater drainage, and then Bocskaikert, for example, for the construction of the swimming pool. The swimming pool that would be the swimming pool of the Hajdúhadháza district would be built in brick and would give 23,000 people a chance to swim at all. [[17.10]] Kokadon has a plan to complete their road construction program. The renovation of the mansion is clearly an important element in the use of EU funds. In Nyírábráz you have to build roads and canals, and there is the Eördögh-Szapáry castle, which is worth much better fate, it would be good to find resources for its renovation. In Nyíracsád we hope to continue the construction of agricultural roads from TOP sources and, of course, there is a need to build additional connecting roads. In Nyíradony the renovation of the sewers and the expansion of the terrain is a very important step, with EU resources only possible. So if someone asks why we have to wait for EU funds and why we mention it so many times: because we need EU funds to catch up and that is what Hungary deserves. We need a doctor's office in Nyírmártonfalva. In brick, as I said, swimming pool and, of course, there are still buildings to be renovated. They are waiting for road constructions, rainwater drainage, and, of course, there are many public buildings still to be renovated in Vámospérc, but there is also the idea of renovating the school swimming pool. So I would add that life is harder in Hungary east of Eden, and we live much harder. Nevertheless, we do not give up because we see the government's intention to support us. However, we hope that, together with EU funds, we will also be able to take greater action. But time is ticking, time is everyone's enemy, and if we don't get the resources in time, we're gonna be behind. So when they are interested in withholding EU funds from any of the parliamentary parties, they act against Hungary and put their own region, their own community, in an awkward situation. I would like to ask them to support the arrival of EU funds in Hungary, and if the budget will not be supported, at least to support the fact that the Hungarian countryside will be able to catch up to the level to which it would otherwise be entitled and which would be successful with the help of EU funds. So I will respectfully propose to all of you that you support the adoption of the budget. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-06-14-104	The next speaker from Jobbik's faction is Mr János Bencze. Here you go.
u2023-06-14-105	Madam President, Thank you for the floor. I've been a congressman for a year, I've been listening to promises and miracles here, and I've been listening to comments from the pro-government side. As a countryman, I focused on the countryside and agriculture, trying to find out what was going on and what was going to happen. I also called home before the speech, because what came back to me here is that the good fairy has arrived in the countryside, a miracle has happened, everything is fine, and it will even improve. Well, these aren't the news from home, host mates, acquaintances said on the phone that the good fairy still didn't arrive, not even in a fidesz dress, so there's no good fairy in orange, but instead we have orange stooges, account makers and so on, we can say, the parasites of the nation, they're just as there, they're not missing. Why is that important? In a year, I have listened to who is to blame for Hungary's failure to develop, who is to blame for not having the money in Brussels. I am surprised at this many times, as we are waiting for the money from Brussels against whom the Prime Minister fought bloody battles. Now you've finally defeated him, Brussels is dead and doesn't send any money, and now we're surprised. Please, why doesn't Brussels send us money, what is missing from our budget, what do we rurals want, how do we want to make this better? These wishes come from those people who actually live in agriculture, who actually live in the countryside, and they have experienced on their skin for 33 years how the political elite of the system shifters have driven Hungary home, how they have driven home the Hungarian countryside, how they have crippled our lives, they have taken away our parents' present, now our present and the future of our children. I would very much like to see a budget whose parallel might have been the well law, where we can agree, where common sense dictates, and the need to meet the country forward. Let's start with the most important one. Why does an independent sovereign state I've heard here many times need Brussels? Why? Why don't we stand on our own two feet? Why don't we try to get what we have in the budget to improve it? What do we have a gift for? Anyone looking at Hungary from space sees not an orange victory here, but the Carpathian Basin, which is an agricultural area. We're an agricultural country. What do we hear from the government? We need a battery plant everywhere, everywhere, not one, more than they can handle. I've just been to Iváncsa, but the battery company is a lot of things, but it's not good. My childhood friends work there. It's not gonna work, believe me. We want something else, the country man asks for something else. We want a processing industry based on agriculture, a manufacturing industry that covers the country with small industrial areas every 30 kilometres. That's what you said, but for some reason, he's not here in the budget. That's what we want, because we have a gift for it. What is the agricultural processing industry? It is something that processes the Hungarian agricultural crop, not imported from abroad, and I will explain why I told you this, but something that was produced by our own, our own crops, our own farmers. Why would that be important? They also told us how such an investment took place. We've been around a lot of investments, and you're not giving me Brussels money for what I'm about to tell you. I've been to a fruit factory at a fake weekend house with a swimming pool called a fire reservoir. It's net theft, it's not a fruit factory! Five years are over, they enjoy it, they use it as a vacation home. We know of a cow farm that doesn't have a cow, but there's a research facility. It's not rural development, it's net theft. That's why Brussels doesn't send money, they're not stupid anymore. Walking through the Hungarian countryside, there are rabbit-less rabbit colonies, and interestingly, they are all related to pro-government people. They're called stooges. That is why Brussels is not sending money, because they see that you have billed this money very well, it has been removed. I'm not saying it's been stolen because it's a bad word, it's become something, but it's not what's going to produce for us. They've developed every village, and I'll sign it for you, just not with what people have asked for. I do not see in this budget that there is real, real development that makes money for the country. So, walking through the Hungarian countryside, I can see that the marketplaces have been ragged with stone, that it would only be for the pride of any European city. But that's not what people asked for. They asked for roads, sidewalks, drinking water. There are markets where there are no prehistoric producers. If you don't believe, you can come with me to Tolna County, I'll show you, I'll guide you through the village, and God forbid, besides the Fidesz voters who have fallen into extreme poverty, there's almost no one there, but they have a marketplace where they've covered the old water tower with bricks. But there's no vendor in it, not on it. I can tell the settlements all the way from Fürged to Magyarkeszi. What do we want to see? Real investments. And why is it important what I highlighted? A lot of people in Parliament know I'm a beekeeper, I'm a beekeeper. Why is it important for processing plants to process domestic products? To support only those who process raw materials produced within Europe, especially those produced within the Carpathian Basin. We had a bad time with honey. In a year and a half, you have destroyed the entire Hungarian bee business, you have wasted a bottler plant with nearly one billion forints, which is working with imported honey, and your State Secretary, but also his Minister, has acknowledged that most of the honey imported into Europe is a forgery. So you're the one who's been plotting a forgery and bankrupting a sector whose product has been exportworthy for centuries. Is that what you call the development of agriculture, the wonderful course you promised us? And that was just beekeeping. Now they don't know how to undo it, we don't know, but we have to figure this out, because we're talking about 15,000 families in bee-keeping, who are either hobby-level or big production stock, so I can tell you that's what they did in the past tense. Here comes the next, also agrarian: you promised the Hungarian farmers, the field farmers a miracle. This will be the most important, the biggest subsidies will come, with so much support dumping coming into agriculture that everyone will be yellow in envy. Thank you, you've arrived in the form of Ukrainian grain. I told you in this room. Traders linked to you filled the warehouses, the silos with cereals, without the Hungarian farmer being able to sell his crop. We're here before the harvest, two weeks before the barley harvest, and farmers, if they go to them, ask them, they don't even know where the crop is planted, not to sell it. Last year, your economic development achieved that the price of input materials increased so much that the fertilizer that was 12 thousand forints in the previous year could be bought by farmers for 40,000 forints. That's what we call a Bige program. That's what we call a prank. We've managed to indebte the farming community with them on the verge of bankruptcy. For them, real subsidies from the budget are now needed to survive so that Hungarian farmers can farm on Hungarian soil. For who will be in their place and who will be in their place? Land speculators. It is not enough that the Hungarian farmer is drawn by the economic situation, most decent farmers rent the land in such a way. Who are you renting the land from? Strokes, speculators who were able to buy it during the big land distributions, whether it's the left vein or your era, when the auction of state lands started, so to speak, after the re-rentation. There is a great need for a public land programme, which I do not see in the budget, that young farmers, as you promised, are not promised by us, but we are partners in this, so that they can get to a land with a reduced lease so that they can live. The land of 3 million forints/hectare cannot be bought by any young person, no one in the country has that kind of money anymore. It's just a tiny slice, isn't it? But what else do we need in agriculture? [[17.20]] Here, the Secretary of State has promised for about a year that the old plans will be dusted off and irrigation systems will be built, and they will start to prevent the Great Plain from deserting. I recommend to you, I recommend to anyone who is pro-government, opposition, go to Bács-Kiskun, and go to the Jászság. No matter how much rain it rains, the sewers are dry. Hungarian agriculture is in a great deal of trouble, and this year's budget, in this draft, I see no sign of a major water development, because we need huge money, and that would set the future of the Carpathian Basin and Hungarians for a hundred years. If we don't have this, we won't have a desert, two: we'll have the desert of Bács-Kiskun County, we'll have the Jászság desert; but maybe that's why migrant guest workers come from Central Asia, because they're used to it. What exactly are the farmers asking you to do here? They've written down what they want, and they're not dreams, they're your promises. So, for example, from Jászság, they ask for the temporary filling of the hany, tiszaroff flood reservoirs so that they can water. In the area of reservoirs, we know that they are farming, that is what you have set a target amount for, and these are the funds I would ask that Hungarian agriculture work, and we are talking about 6 billion forints. These are petty money compared to those that go to government propaganda or what the stromans swallow. They need this, because if there's no production there, that part's over. Blowing up the Sloan. These are perfectly logical, earthbound thoughts. These are ideas that serve real, productive agriculture in Hungary. We don't see any sign of him. They didn't write a huge sum here either, it's 4 billion forints. They've been consulting with the water experts. They don't want big ones, they don't want huge dams, they don't want a water reservoir with a swan-shaped bridge, they just want buttholes or dams to water them so they can survive and produce the crops that the Hungarian manufacturing industry can process. Because they have a vision. A man from the earth has always had a vision. There's more like it here. They have very simple suggestions. Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County, too. We talked about cutting trees here, we talked about a lot of things in the spring, everyone was terrified of it in the winter, but there are areas where natural wood degradation has grown to such an extent that re-tanning is necessary. Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County is today the most agile county in Hungary. They have trench beaches, canal beaches, and they suggest that local farmers do need to refurbish it, and they said that together with the beekeepers, we should save the sector a little. If we could plant 15 million honey trees for this we would need 4.5 billion forints, we would save Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County from tree-freeness and help beekeepers. It's not a huge request, and I think it would fit in a lot. But I have a heart problem as Tolna County. As a county assembly representative, I participated in the so-called Sió project, along with the pro-government representatives. We had a dream in Tolna County that Siót would be exemplary to rebuild from Lake Balaton to Gemenc, to build it so that on the beach you can travel on a bicycle road, have water tourism and dams for irrigation. As I'm guessing, there's been a unique plan in the country, but we've managed to pick it up over the past six years. I wouldn't say summat right now, because it's tens of billions of forints, and I can see the reality that it can't be much, but, for example, it would be very important to give. It could be shown how it works, what people have imagined together, that it benefits a county, benefits tourism, and benefits farmers. That would be a real basis. We don't need stadiums, we don't want stadiums in the country. We asked for a normal life, and we asked for a normal life. There are much simpler requests. Not far from me, in Fejér county or a town called Dunaújváros, where there was a great struggle in the elections, so to speak, and Dr. Lajos Mészáros won the elections. We also congratulated him as a decent opponent. We just want him to keep his promise. He promised an MRI machine to Dunaújváros. He promised that the hospital in Dunaújváros would have normal care, and that would require an MRI machine, which would cost HUF 370 million. I believe that if a pro-government Member has promised this, an opposition will stand up and tell us that there will be no obstacle from here on out. Let's just say it has a national consensus. The Dunaújváros people ask very, very nicely that this MRI machine be implemented, and Lajos Mészáros can stand up and thank the government, because it will not help the government, it will help the people of Dunaújváros, the people around Dunaújváros, and it will make their medical care much more qualitative. There have been numerous proposals, but almost all from agriculture and the countryside. What else do you want? I told you, beekeepers are in a lot of trouble. Beekeepers ask for two things. If you've already managed to bankrupt them with your favorite fake honey-stroman, then help those 15,000 families because you don't want to work in the battery companies! They're free people from agriculture, they've spent 30-40 years in this sector, they can't be put in a factory. Help me with the pollination aid. We've put in the budget amendment, please support this. They save families, they save Hungarian apiary. In addition, it would be very good if it was not possible to make a living in beekeeping and agriculture, helping to earn a different kind of income. There's a million programs. There's a lot of diligence in the country. Not just in the Balaton Uplands or not only in the Balaton Uplands, the friends would need tourist support to build a guest house, but also in Tolna County, Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok, Bács County and Baranya. These hardworking rural people would invest in the small income that remains, and help make the Hungarian countryside liveable. I'm not telling you anything other than what you promised me. You have promised this to the Hungarian countryside for 13 years, that we will get it, that we will have it. I've been living this dream, too, and as soon as I get here, I can see that this dream is not going to happen. We're not gonna stand for it here, no matter what we say, someone up there is gonna decide who's gonna get what. And what happens to Hungarian agriculture in Hungary? Who's gonna get rich again? I told you last time: Ráhel Orbán and István Tiborcz buy a property in Tokaj-Hegyalyan for 600 million HUF. It's not an agricultural development, it's a livelihood for a small family, it's not a livelihood for families. The Jobbik-Conservatives want every Hungarian family, every born person in the Hungarian region to have the right to choose where they were born to live. If you choose to go to an industrial center, work for a battery company, that's your choice. But if you want to live on the ground because of your ancestors, you want to make a processing plant on the ground, you want to make a living on the ground from agriculture, which is very hard work, but you choose this, then we ask for this opportunity to create a budget together where these people will find their calculations, because the Hungarian countryside deserves much more than it has received in the last 33 years. Because, as I said at the beginning, the Hungarian countryside has been destroyed for 33 years since it was completely looted during privatisation. I ask you to help me with that, and to make a budget, and to do it together, so that we can correct these mistakes, because we see that industrial developments have not reached the bottom of the Balaton line. In Somogy, Tolna, Baranya, Zala, there was no major industrial development. And again, we don't want a battery factory, thank you, we don't want a Chinese battery factory, we want an exemplary thing to have an agricultural manufacturing industry. We have everything we need: land above 30 golden crowns, diligence, if necessary, the Sión water transport route, our rail network, our road, we have the M6 motorway. We've got something to build on, and for some reason, it's not. So I would like to conclude with one thing that the Hungarian countryside deserves more, and I would like to see a budget, I would like to vote for a budget in the final vote where at least half of these conditions are met. Thank you. [[Bence of Turdai applauds.]]
u2023-06-14-106	I would like to inform my fellow Members of the further order of opposition: now it will be Mr Sándor Fazekas, who will be followed by Mr Bence Tordai, and then two minutes of comments, followed by László Pósán, Zoltán Komáromi, László Horváth. Accordingly, I now give the floor to Congressman Sándor Fazekas. Here you go.
u2023-06-14-107	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, Hungary's budget for 2024 is the defence budget. I have to say, unfortunately. It is unfortunate that this is what we need now. The horror of the prolonged war has become a reality. We have been living in the neighbourhood of the armed conflict for almost a year and a half, with every possible negative impact on us and on the rest of Europe, and, although we would very much like to, the situation is not yet in the direction of peace. Unfortunately, next year's budget had to be planned with the most likely scenario that the Russian-Ukrainian military conflict would continue in 2024. The design environment of the draft budget law is therefore extremely complex. The effects of the problems we are experiencing now will also mark the following year. The precarious international economic situation, the reorganising international trade, the crisis in the energy sector, the severe inflation worldwide are all factors that are directly related to the war and the international response to it. [[17 .30]] The transfer of arms is a major help to the Ukrainian army, but it also contributes to the deepening of the conflict, and it is also a potential escalation focal point, since it willfully unwittingly broadens the opposition between the parties. Instead, an immediate ceasefire and the opening of peace talks would be necessary. Of course, as we have often clarified in the various political debates, the start of ceasefires and negotiations does not mean that changes to national borders are the end result. Only a peace agreement which is fully acceptable to the contested party shall be eligible. I am pointing out this because this position has become the target of irresponsible political accusations many times, despite the fact that, as we approach such a resting point, there is a chance to alleviate the difficulties that everyone, especially in Europe, is facing as soon as possible. Another such chance would be to rethink the European Union's misguided sanctioning steps, but it is true that it would be difficult to withdraw from them before the conflict would ease. In any case, it is a fact that abandoning the sanctions policy from now on to tomorrow would result in a significant reduction in current inflation and lead international processes towards a balanced situation. Today, unfortunately, other interests dominate. Many want to bring the conflict to its extremes, not mind the economic damage, not even the lives of people. There is a strong pressure to bring us into a war between the brothers and sisters that we have nothing to do with. We must defend ourselves against this and, of course, this defensive approach is also outlined in the draft budget. On the one hand, we need to protect our achievements in the previous decade and on the other hand we need to improve our self-defense capabilities. What are these achievements? The first thing that may be at the greatest risk under the current circumstances is the reduction of the overhead. For almost a decade, Hungarian consumers have been able to obtain energy at affordable prices. Even in these difficult circumstances, Hungarian families pay the lowest energy prices within the EU. In order to maintain this, the 2024 budget also includes the Renewal Fund, which provides protection against unpredictable increases and fluctuations in world energy prices. In 2024 the Rezsivédvédelmi Fényi Fund has a budget of more than HUF 1360 billion, which is covered by extra-profit taxes and other revenue. Another achievement can be linked to job creation and job protection. In 2010, many thought it impossible to create 1 million jobs in Hungary in 10 years. According to KSH data, only 3.7 million people worked in Hungary in 2010, hundreds of thousands of unemployed. The number of people employed has exceeded the limit of 4.7 million over the last few years, bringing them closer to full employment. Under the current circumstances, Hungarian jobs must also be protected. The most important means of doing so is keeping the economy on track for growth and maintaining financial stability. After the coronal virus crisis, the Hungarian economy quickly found itself, and in 2022, despite the outbreak of the war, it expanded by 4.6 percent. The government's aim is to avoid the economic downturn in the current circumstances and to continue to grow again this year. The economic effects of the war and the failed sanctions policy in Brussels make it difficult to reach the target, so this year's budget will only increase by 1.5 per cent per year, but the growth will be significantly higher in 2024 and is expected to be 4 per cent. The bill before us has also been prepared in this regard. Next year, we will also be able to return to the declining path of the previous fiscal deficit and public debt. The proposal calculates a deficit-to-GDP deficit target of 2.9 per cent and a reduction of government debt to 66.7 per cent. The budget provides a predictable and predictable basis for maintaining stability in the country and maintaining economic growth. At the same time, caution cannot be enough in an unstable world market environment, which is why the budget of 2024 has a central reserve of HUF 220 billion. Our family support system and our pension system are the next area, with a special emphasis on protecting it next year. In the 2024 budget, the combined amount of family policy expenditure and family tax incentives exceeds HUF 3300 billion, and the amount that can be spent on pensions and pension-like benefits is virtually double that. We spend more than three times as much on family support now, during the war period, in difficult international economic conditions as the 2010 budget has spent for this purpose; pensions also provide increases in excess of inflation and 13 months' pensions. What the left took from the Hungarian people at the time, we give back. And yes, I would like to continue here at the left, because I mentioned that this proposal should be not only about protection but also about reinforcements. We need to strengthen our self-defense capabilities, strengthen our defence. However, the need to focus on this is justified not only by the war next door, but also by the fact that the defence was completely dismantled during left-wing governance. After our accession to NATO, knowing, for example, how fragile peace is in our southern neighbours, the left, instead of developing and modernising the army, has begun to decommission and disarm its weapons system. The Trianon Peace Dictate did not impose a decommissioning obligation to the extent that decommissioning was carried out during the MSZP-SZDSZ administration. While all our neighbors kept it, modernized their weapons systems inherited from Soviet times, ours ended up in the junkyard. In 2010, there was a weak, almost dysfunctional, incompletely equipped army in the country, but what is most saddening is that there were no plans for modernisation or renewal. We must therefore build, strengthen in the field of defence, and not just because there is a war next door. Fortunately, during civil governance, we managed to launch in good time the military development programme that is now bearing fruit. The outbreak of the war was not seen by a weakened, motivated Hungarian army, but by the protection of a growing, ready-to-do army. The objectives of the military development programme are also supported in the budget proposal of 2024 by the Hungarian Defence Fund, the spending of which exceeds HUF 1300 billion provides an adequate basis for increasing the impact of the Hungarian Defence Forces. NATO recommendations include that Member States' defence expenditure should reach 2% of gross domestic product. We remember that we have adopted this year's budget so that we can meet this expenditure rate this year. There's no other plan for 2024. We can and will maintain a 2-percent level of protection expenditure. We want to continue to take the lead among the member states of the Alliance in the field of military technology procurement and development. The left is destroyed. We have to build now. We're building a modern army. The Leopard tanks and other fighting vehicles have already been in place, our light helicopter fleet has been renewed, and our soldiers are already familiar with the first specimens of the later arriving Lynx team carriers. New handguns, grenade launchers, training suits are also available, and next year we are expected to have more spectacular results. The first copy of the long-awaited tactical transporters will be arriving shortly, and the pilot flights will be carried out on the new training aircraft type, of which the army has ordered 12 units, and we await the arrival of medium transport helicopters. There will be continuous modernisation of the Gripen fleet, and steps will also be taken in the renewal of our air defense systems. I can list the spectacular improvements, but it's not about the sight. We must not think that our military development program is some kind of military technology demonstration. Lessons from the war next door also influence development directions. The drone war, the increase in the weight of information warfare or the spread of artificial intelligence are all factors to which the military development programme is able to monitor. I would like to mention here that the calculations of NATO's defence expenditure recommendation do not include industrial development and innovation, but we also have a draft budget for this, as we also need to rebuild our military industrial capacities from almost zero. In 2024 more than one hundred billion forints were earmarked in the budget to support the defence industry and innovation. At the beginning of my speech, I said that it is regrettable that, because of the current threats, we must discuss the defence budget. [[17.40]] However, it is a fortunate fact that we have the opportunity to defend ourselves and that we want to. We can hear the statements: if the left were on the government now, they would send weapons to Ukraine, not the Hungarian army, that they would fire a conflict with our resources that we had nothing to do with, instead of trying to increase our defence capacity, they would rather be involved in escalating a war that poses the danger of reaching us. In 2022, the Hungarian people decided: they want a government that is trying to do everything in its power not to drag us into the war in our neighbourhood. This is also the main message of the budget before us. We will further strengthen the protection of our country, because maintaining the country's physical security is more important than anything else. And peace requires strength, which is why, instead of a budget for war, we now have a budget of protection. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to respect the will of the majority of the Hungarian people. They serve our defence and not the war in the drafting of the amendments and in the final vote. Dear Parliament, The previous Member, János Bencze, has said many interesting, useful, or unacceptable or less acceptable things. I do not wish to respond to these, but he mentioned the county of Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok, I am Karcagi, I live in this county, and I would like to point out from what he has said that it is not a great invention to say that the least forest area in Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County was the same, it was already five hundred years ago. At the same time, we have the most agricultural land, ploughing, pasture, so it is obvious that it is either one or the other. In view of this, there were, and are, very serious wooding programs, which are still under way, and the Great Plain wooding started from our territory and from the neighbourhood. So it's a natural gift, obviously one can transform its environment, but it also has its limits. I am confident that the state aid scheme that can be used for planting forests will continue to allow farmers who want to plant forests to obtain these resources, because in our county there are as many forests as the owners, the landowners, are installing. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-06-14-108	It is now up to Congressman Bence Tordai of the Dialogue Group. I give you the floor, please.
u2023-06-14-109	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, I will go far back in time, to 1990, when the Association of Young Democrats was sitting here, not the criminal alliance of aging autocrats, and when a young man with an honest and sharp mind, a certain Viktor Orbán, classified the debate at that time, the debate of the government programme, in such a way that it was an attempt to discuss an inappropriate subject. Well, I can only say worse for the current budget, this will be a completely irrelevant reflection circle, where, of course, everyone can express their opinions, tell their desires, but it doesn't make much sense. It is not because it can be seen from the Moon, and it can even be seen from Brussels, and the European Parliament has even taken a decision that the 2022 budget has been amended 95 times, and its father would not even recognize it. So I'm looking at Mr. Secretary of State, with great question marks in my eyes: isn't it a shame, professionally, to bring in bills called budgets to Parliament as a joke? Is it not a shame that there is, in fact, regulation governance in terms of the budget, and there is no way to look at what, how much of the Hungarian taxpayers' and increasingly European taxpayers' money is being spent? In a normal parliamentary democracy, perhaps the most important of the annual laws is the debate on the budget law, but here we can no longer talk about a serious bill, and we really have a serious nostalgia about the '90s. You are here, among the Members, although you are not present at the moment, who felt nostalgia for the debates of the '90s as early as 2006. Allow me to quote a few sentences from someone:, At that time, it was still customary to speak frankly and seriously here in this House. At that time, no one has offended their audience by telling us about the situation of Hungary instead of giving us responsible speech and honest face-to-face communication panels. But where are these old days? It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's I ask the same question with Viktor Orbán, the 2006 Viktor Orbán: where are these old days? If it were time to face it honestly, then the pro-government authors would be talking about the stupid no, sorry, instead of the altered communication panels, that the defense budget, blah, blah, blah, blah, if there was a chance of honest confrontation, then you would be talking about the fact that, over the past 13 years, you have ruined Hungarian economic and social policy. Not a little, a lot. And the consequences of everything are the crisis that we are facing right now. The livelihood crisis, which is primarily the European record, is characterised by inflation in excess of two or three times the other EU Member States, which has resulted in a fall in standard of living that we did not see in the 2008-2009 crisis, that consumption is falling over such a long period of quarters; that people can buy eight percent less products in stores because you simply stole their money, destroyed the purchasing power of their incomes, wages, pensions and social benefits. Such a crisis was last seen in the transitional crisis of the 1990s, after the change of regime, after the collapse of the eastern markets. But you have also brought this together, and in the meantime, we are still hearing an amazing success scenario from everywhere, while, if it were an honest confrontation, you would not only be talking about the fact that in the last 13 years this has not only been a little, but also about the fact that there is not only a livelihood crisis in Hungary today, but there is stagflation. A state of non-growth that is accompanied by very high and persistent high inflation, to which Martin the Great, by the way, has replied in the days to raise the inflation target, let us admit that the government is not able to stop the decline in money in substance, so let us get used to the fact that people's income is worth less and less. Nor do you honestly face the fact that there is not only a livelihood crisis in Hungary, there is not only an economic crisis, but there is also a climate and ecological crisis. Of course, this is not only in Hungary, but throughout the planet Earth, but according to your budget, there is no trace of this. So, if you really took the communication panels you're talking about a little bit seriously, the defense budget would be a budget for climate protection and social protection. So they wouldn't spend on arms, because it's the only winner of the 2024 Fidesz draft budget, but they would spend on how to reduce the climate crisis, how to adapt to new environmental, climate and ecological conditions, and how we can protect people in this livelihood crisis and in this new transition crisis, especially families in difficulty, vulnerable social groups. Your budget doesn't say anything about it, and I'm saying it's completely irrelevant from now on, what it says, because, on the one hand, it can't be taken seriously, and by the time it's done, it may not be rewritten 95 times, but 115 times, and on the other hand, it doesn't reflect on the current problems. It would be good if there were room for a sensible budget debate if we were not only to see empty frames. In front of the Secretary of State, we have all these nice, thick books, the bill, but they're actually just doing this out of routine, so they know it's not gonna have anything to do with the numbers we see at the end of 24 or what we see in 25 is the closing bill on the implementation of the budget that we've just written here. So I would not necessarily waste any more words on the Fidesz bill, but rather I am talking briefly about what alternative the Dialogue-Greens are proposing for Hungary, because this is something that makes some sense in this House, where we no longer make meaningful decisions. On the part of the Dialogue-Greens, we believe that we should also place the "24-year budget under the righteous green transition that is necessary to stand before us if we take it a little seriously that we are living in a transforming world and that we want the best possible for Hungarian society in the future. We want the ecological and climate crisis, the economic crisis that is now affecting Hungarian families not to suffer it, not to suffer the poorest, the most difficult, and to share in the joint efforts that must be undertaken by the higher-taxed companies and the super-rich. [[17.50]] 'Cause last time I referred you back to the Fidesz budget, you brought us a austerity budget. So the only area that can handle extra money is defence. Indeed, they want to spend more than 1,800 billion for this purpose, although if they want effective protection, I will tell you what to do: NATO, of which we are still members, without blocking its membership process, can be much safer by voting in favour of Swedish NATO accession. Your U.S. Republican allies have now brought this to your attention with a very strong gesture: in vain they would like to spend the Hungarian taxpayers' money on a hundred billion-dollar missile launch systems, otherwise, because they are not proud of it, but they cannot buy it, because the American state does not sell modern weapons systems to a NATO Member State that hinder the expansion and strengthening of the organization during a war. So it would be good not to act as a forward garrison of Putin; it would be good not to act as traitors to Hungarian national security, not in the interests of Hungary, not in the interests of common NATO interests, so much less money would guarantee much more security. So maybe we should review the defense doctrine and not spend the money uncounted on arms purchases that can't even be realized later. So, back to what needs to be protected: people need to be protected from this transition. Hungarian society must be prepared for a sustainable lifestyle, a sustainable social and economic operation that guarantees that life can be lived here in the Carpathian Basin for decades, centuries. If you have any valid ideas about this, we would be very happy to hear it; we have failed to write it down in this draft budget, and so in general, the Fidesz bill is not very strong in creating something forward on these issues. On behalf of the Dialogue-Greens, we have drawn up a package of budgetary amendments that shows what the budget would look like for the construction of green Hungary. Green Hungary needs social justice and a sustainable economy and society. For this reason, the majority of the Dialogue-Greens budget package is based on the Green Transition Fund. My fellow Member, Rebecca Szabó, another co-president of the Dialogues-Greens, has already spoken in detail about the basic content of the green transition today, and I am merely referring to the areas on which we should spend a great deal more than we do now. On the one hand, and then let us start from the livelihood crisis, which is mainly driven by food inflation, i.e. total inflation is mainly driven by price increases in food prices, and that is the failed adaptation of Hungarian agriculture, its completely outdated structure and mode of operation, its low competitiveness, which again I refer to your man, György Matolcsy, the second worst in the European Union. Here, my better fellow Member has just spoken about Hungary's agricultural past. The old glory can no longer be found in trace, only in Bulgaria there are worse results in agriculture than in Hungary. It is this system that has been devastated by the robbers, the lack of investment and the lack of a modern approach, which has made this Hungarian agriculture in such a bad state, and which is why Hungarian buyers encounter amazing prices in shops. One of the most important elements of the Dialogue-Greens package, the green transition fund, is that we finally move Hungarian agriculture towards climate adaptation, and perhaps the most important part of that, as it was visible to everyone during the drought and heat waves last year, is to do as much as possible in order to maintain water. But not in the '70s, but in the way your water people talk about, but in the way they keep water in the countryside. The failed river control policy that was in the course of the 19th century. We should think again in order not to drain more water from the Carpathian Basin than it does in order to keep the level of soil water from dwindling continuously, so as not to extort water in the soil, among other things, through neckless well drilling or the amazing scale of the battery plants, where there may not be a more water-intensive industry on earth. So it would be good for you to think a little bit about what it is that serves the Hungarian future, sustainable Hungary. I am sure that keeping water in the Hungarian landscape is such a thing, and that agricultural adaptation, which provides not only higher yields with modern irrigation systems and other technologies, but also more reliable, balanced yields, and which can once again make Hungarian agriculture in Europe and the world competitive and, of course, ensure the supply of affordable and quality food to Hungarian families. So this is one area. The other area is sustainable transport, to which I am sure we need to spend a great deal more. Compared to this, this is one of the biggest losers of the Fidesz draft budget: 330 billion were withdrawn from rail development while spending much more on this area. Local and inter-local community transport would be the winner of the Dialogue Budget Package. To sum up everything, we would spend about HUF 500 billion on this area, which will allow you to provide not only the rents, but also the fast, reliable and high quality community transport services available to everyone. Compared to this, you are also pursuing a policy of austerity in this area, even if you refuse or dare not say that word in the absence of honesty. In addition to sustainable community transport, it is also important to protect the ecosystem, a little bit back to agriculture by focusing on organic farming, which also requires budgetary resources, the reversal of the bleeding of national parks, the cost of animal protection, or the support of green civil society organisations, which has been systematically separated in recent years, and which also has a bearing on the fact that the green transition in Hungary is not working. The next major area is the green transition in principle, the energy revolution, the green energy transition. So the completely failing policy that consumes hundreds of billions of forints a year is Paks II. He's trying to build it with a bunch of puppies, so we should finally let him go. The profession has already clearly demonstrated that such basic power plants are simply not needed, now putting aside the negative feelings about nuclear energy or the specific rogue project, which, by the way, find majority support in Hungarian society. So, even if we put all this aside, we simply do not need another centralised, difficult-to-control, large energy production unit, but rather decentralised local, local energy production and energy communities. Money should be spent on energy efficiency and energy saving. I would now like to quote the 2010 Fidesz, which wanted to give 10 percent of the housing stock a year in energy efficiency renovations, and that is what is really needed, but you have not made any progress in the past 13 years; what has happened is solely due to the efforts of the Hungarian families. The Hungarian housing stock uses 60 percent more energy than the EU average, which is why Hungarian rent is expensive, which is why we need to make up for the money missing from the central budget, the Hungarian taxpayers' money, our common pockets in the order of 1000 billion for low-income households and high-income households. So, it would be nice if you would heed the wisdom that we've been saying for 13 years, but 13 years ago, you knew it was the cheapest energy we're not using. So it would be good if the 250 billion extra bill of energy efficiency housing subsidies proposed by the Dialogue-Greens could be supported by the governing parties. Similarly, improvements would be needed not only on the production side, not only on the consumer side, but also on the networks. You have shut down small power plants of household size, the possibility of connecting solar panels to the system, on the grounds that the network cannot withstand it. It's probably a bunch of bullshit, but in some places, there's actually signs of overload. Then we'd have to improve, and then we'd have to spend money on it. In general, a hundred billion-dollar resource should also be allocated to the development and smartening of electrical networks, smart grids, the development of metering and all related technological developments, if you really thought seriously about at least what was written this year, or the year before, and sent to the EU in hopes of obtaining EU funds. [[18.00]] But the green transition is not just about environmental issues, because the green transition must be fair, so as part of this we are also talking about the return certificate. The winter may not be as serious as it was left behind, but it must also be done here in a hundred billion-dollar order, but not for all consumers, but for families in need, to help them consume and pay their bills. Furthermore, due to the ever-increasing inequalities, the increasing uncertainty, the risk, the spread of pre-carialism, the fourth industrial revolution, the expansion of artificial intelligence, the impact of networked robots on human work and similar phenomena, it would also be necessary to think about how work and income are linked in the long term, what livelihood we can guarantee our fellow citizens, even if, after a while, much of the work we do now is done by robots or computers. That is why we think it is immeasurably necessary to start a basic income experiment on a large scale, on a social level, again with hundreds of billion-dollar resources. These are the basics of the green transition, and another major item is the development of the various social sub-schemes, the replacement of the lack of resources in education, health, social care and other key areas, as we see that all these areas are losing to the administration of Fidesz, we see that the resources that come here are constantly being inflated and often cannot be kept at a level even in nominal value, but the fact that they spend less and less in real terms in these areas is quite clear and cannot be refuted by numbers. The result is the silent decay and local collapse of health care and education systems. But you're obviously asking yourself, how do we fund these beautiful, important and difficult targets? Of course, as a responsible opposition party, the Dialogue-Greens also tells us where money should be taken from [[Peter Cseresnyés: Well?!]] , and we have determined the excess or harmful expenditure of more than 1,500 or nearly 1800 billion forints, which I have already referred to here in Paks II. In its framework, or if the very little money left for railway development was not put on the Belgrade-Budapest railway line and I could keep going, then the budget situation would certainly be better. But perhaps even more important, and I would like to draw the attention of the Fidesz fellow Members, who otherwise support the tax increase, to what kind of tax increases we would support. You, for example, have raised the tax on retail taxes, which is why food in Hungary is so incredibly expensive. You have pushed the tax on consumption, VAT, to the world record level, and I could continue the line, and now you have imposed a 13 percent special tax on savings, in fact. So that you travel in a tax increase, even if you deny it, even if you lie about the opposite, and we had to talk about a tax increase when you introduced a single-key personal income tax in Hungary, which is the most unfair system in the world, because you pushed the income of low-income earners, your net, and raised the income of those who earn well, so this is your belief and practice in social justice. Now, let's put aside the Fidesz tax increases, and I'll tell you what kind of tax increases we greens support. Because we're always accused of wanting to raise taxes, and that's a true accusation in the sense that it's even an accusation that we should raise certain taxes. For example, large companies, giant companies, have taxes. Because in Hungary today, while small people and small businesses are hit by amazing public burdens, large companies operate under tax haven conditions. The effective corporate tax of around 5 per cent, i.e. the actual rate paid, is abnormally low, even the official 9 per cent key; we say that we should at least raise the Hungarian corporate tax rate of 15 per cent to the global minimum corporate tax level, which you, in principle, have very difficult to accept in international forums, and then try to sell hundreds of tricks about the existing tax system, multinationals, large capital companies and the large capital tax system in such a way that it meets the criteria set out in international commitments. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] No, this would require a massive tax increase, which would be about HUF 900 billion in additional revenue for the state, our joint cashier, and the tax incentives that also strike a hole in the budget of around 500 billion and attract investors that we do not need, since they do not have any added value to the Hungarian economy, nor the conditions under which they could operate, are not available, and then we are back at the battery companies, so that we should also say goodbye to the tax incentives granted to this type of big companies, the international capital; again, this would result in an additional revenue of around 500 billion. Who else do we have to tax? We still need to tax the super-rich, who now almost exclusively represent fidesz oligarchs in Hungary. The Dialogue-Greens worked out the oligarch tax. This, even if it is not a symbolic value, because it offers tens of billions of HUF plus revenue, but also carries an important message from the point of view of social justice, it carries the message that those who have been unjustly and immorally enriched, if not fully confiscated, what they would otherwise deserve, Lőrinc Mészáros and his associates, but at least a higher tax rate; if they are already stealing their vast assets from the community, they will return at least part of it to the benefit of the community, especially in these difficult times, which are also mentioned by the pro-government representatives and the authors of the bill. Similarly, the green tax on private aircraft serves to tax the super-rich, which is also an iconic bill for the Dialogue-Greens. We say that the characters who jump out for a soccer match or for a little family thought for a few days or a few hours, even in Germany, Italy [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] In Dubai or somewhere else, they're... [[The president's ringing again.]] Yeah? [[Intercoms from the ranks of the governing parties: Time is running out! Time's up!]] Wow, I've had so many great sayings...
u2023-06-14-110	I'm asking for your understanding, but unfortunately, the faction time frame is over, so... [[Bence of Turdai: Ah! Pain...]] I'm sorry, thank you very much. [[Bence of Turdai:...I know it is, but thank you for your attention. Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]] Dear Parliament, Again, I welcome my fellow Members. We now have two-minute speeches, and I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Komáromi, MEP DK.
u2023-06-14-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My fellow Member, László Földi, said in his speech about an hour ago that I would like to correct because it is not what he said. He literally said that under the Gyurcsány government, general practitioners left the districts in a mass and that this was a supply problem especially for the villages. Numbers. In 2006, 163 of the 6422 GP practice were unfilled, this is 2.5 percent; this has already gone up in 2010... Hold on, hold on. That went up by 2010... [[He's looking at his laptop.]] Whatever. However, in 2023, there are now 6339 practices in Hungarian with 83 fewer, and 717 of them are unfilled, which is 11,3 percent. If we take out the KSH, by the way, is not a correlation... because it comes from the NEAK database, they say that there are 5807 practices at the moment, it was 6559 practice, so it is not exactly true that then, in 2006-2007, the village doctors would have left their jobs in bulk. Thank you. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-06-14-112	I ask the Secretary of State to understand that this circle goes down. Independent Congressman Ferenc Varga asked for the floor in two minutes, and then the Secretary of State. Thank you.
u2023-06-14-113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to respond to the words of the Secretary of State, Peter Banai. I understand that the facts are stubborn, and it is difficult to argue with them, Mr Secretary of State, with the programmes that Attila Stojka has told me about the Roma Commissioner, but the fact is that your catching-up programmes are largely on paper, and if they had programmes that were successful at local level, it was a drop in the sea compared to the size of the problem. [[18.10]] You also say that the left is working to avoid the money to catch up on poverty. That's not true either. The only thing that has happened here is that the Union has grown tired of the fact that in recent years, you have seen EU funds for catching up as the easiest source to steal. Go to a Roma colony, see what you were supposed to spend all the money that came into the country, and see if the 21st century is worth anything. In Hungary, the masses of people still live without electricity, water and infrastructure, in terrible housing conditions, where 80 percent of children live in the same room as their parents! I suppose you're wondering why I'm telling you again about the problems of the biggest minority in the country. Because so far, there hasn't really been anyone who stood before you and told you the problems that are really outside the walls of Parliament, because you've surrounded yourselves with noding Johns and silent lavenders, and you've been doing all this to this day. But believe me, for the future of our country, not only education, not only health, but also environmental protection, but catching up has a huge role to play. The thing is, you guys don't look very good in any of these areas. Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2023-06-14-114	Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Secretary of State Peter Benő Banai. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2023-06-14-115	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I fully agreed with the first thought of Mr Bence Tordai's comment. That first thought concerned the preservation of the authority of the Parliament and the seriousness of the budgetary debate. That is why what Congressman Bence Tordai then said was very strange to me. If he himself takes the budget debate seriously, then allow a personal opinion not to be regarded as an association of autocrats aging in attendance, does not classify the Members of Parliament present, and in its content he looks at the bill on which the debate is going on, or looks at what has already been said in the debate. I was under the impression that the Member had not done so, otherwise he would not have said that the government had ruined economic policy in the last 13 years, which is why the situation is difficult at present; he did not claim that Hungary had fallen into a standard of living; or he did not claim that education and health were the losers of budgetary policy. If you had looked at the figures, you would have found out from them, and if you had not only looked at the figures of the Hungarian Statistical Office or Eurostat, but also the figures of other organisations, you would have seen that from 2013 onwards, the development of the Hungarian economy exceeded the average level of the European Union, which is also true for the period under Covid. And you should have seen that the challenges that we are facing, whether this year's low economic performance across Europe or the rise in inflation, are mainly related to external factors. As far as wages are concerned and allow me to respond to the fall in living standards since 2017, since the six-year wage agreement, there has been a significant two-digit wage rise dynamic. This was true for virtually all payment categories. But if the Member is talking about social inequality, social justice and catching up with people with lower incomes, then allow me to take out one single number, namely the evolution of the wage of those employed at the minimum wage. I am thinking not only of the six-year wage agreement from 2017, when the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage rose by 25 percent and 15 percent at the first stage, and the net real income of the lower earners increased more than average income, but I would go back to 2010. After 2010, the wage of employees at the minimum wage increased from HUF 60 236 to HUF 154 280 in 2023, representing a net increase of 156.1 percent between 2010 and 2023. Those employed at the minimum wage who had children and were able to benefit from family tax benefits were, of course, able to increase their income even more. So I think that the economic policy of recent years has been an opportunity to make progress and to catch up with everyone; and I am arguing with the Roma's findings: yes, the Roma too. So we know that in most places who want to work in Hungary, they can work and live from work instead of aid. And I will continue to argue with the comments made by Mr Ferenc Varga with regard to Roma communities that it would not have been possible to catch up. The facts are stubborn, and I conclude with this, and I agree with Mr Ferenc Varga's statement. The facts show that the number of people employed in Hungary has increased by one million people since 2010 [[Zoltán Varga: They work outside in England!]] the facts show that many members of the Roma community also live from work today instead of aid [[Zoltán Varga: No help!]] And all those who work can bring home more money than if they live on welfare. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-06-14-116	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Miklós Dukai, State Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior.
u2023-06-14-117	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, I, too, would like to respond to part of Mr Bence Tordai's speech, also as a representative of the Ministry of the Interior here. Congressman Torda has made rather disparaging statements about water professionals, which makes me extremely ashamed of the fact that it is said here in the walls of this House. So I'm gonna apologize to the water department from here, too, so that their work is being defrauded. Just think back to the great floods in Tisza or Duna, which is a well-known example of what superhuman work our water colleagues are doing, and they have done, for example, during the drought period last year, so that the parts of the country that have been hit most by drought, on the one hand, also have drinking water or irrigation water. On the other hand, water professionals still struggle when there is a great deal of precipitation in the country, or in different areas of the country, areas of inland water may be formed to carry out normal agricultural work there, and, otherwise, the different watercourses in the rivers should not leave their waterbeds. But to mention one more substantial part of Mr Tordai's speech, he said that to them the Dialogue, which, we know, has never scaled itself in any election, so we do not know what people actually think about their political weight is important to keep water in the landscape. I would also like to report here, with respect to honourable Members and those present, that we have been dealing with this issue continuously in the Ministry of the Interior since 2016, and that we have already achieved a number of results in this regard. For example, honourable opposition representatives have often called on the government to know why we are not returning funds from Brussels. I just want to talk to you about a project in which the Ministry of Interior, together with the local authorities and many other professional organisations, brings back water-related water-reserving projects from Brussels with which we make exemplary, exemplary investments across the country. Small-scale water reservoir investments, which Congressman Tordai would like to take account of on the government and on the Fidesz majority. This water retention project I mentioned affected five settlements, five sample settlements, which were selected on the basis of the country's hydrographics, and aims to retain the water that hatches in different settlements, in any form, and is a good example. And how this will have consequences and long-term benefits in the country, for example, the operational programmes are also linked to water-related water retention or, for example, urban precipitation water, because we have incorporated in the regulation that if anyone is building municipal precipitation drainage today, they are obliged to keep it locally in the landscape. So by the Member, we are in the middle of the nebula, but hopefully we will be able to achieve further results in this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[18.20]]
u2023-06-14-118	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The only thing I regret as President of the Chamber is that Congressman Tordai is not in the Chamber to hear the answer. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Member László Pósán, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-06-14-119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, We know that the intrusive proximity of facts usually prevents large-scale conception. The reason I am quoting this here is because during yesterday's day, when the lead speakerial round was also held, Momentum's representative, Lajos Löcsei, said that in this budget there was no way to catch the appreciation of knowledge in action, in the ruins of higher education, in the rumours of research and development, there was no such thing as high added value investments, and so on, so it was full of apocalyptic images. Well, this House, I would like to say that the facts, as we know, are stubborn things, show something completely different. According to the Times Higher Education report of 16 October 2022, 9 Hungarian universities were included in 2021 in the TOP 5 percent of the world's 28 thousand universities and 11 Hungarian universities in 2022. I think that in the case of a country as large as Hungary, these are very serious results. It's not just for your two beautiful eyes that institutions get in there. Semmelweis University is one of the best 250 universities in the world, I'll say it again, out of 28,000. From a sustainability point of view, the University of Debrecen has become one of the best 400 universities in the world, and in the field of corporate relations, which is important because companies once again offer this kind of cooperation not for the sake of someone's two beautiful eyes, but for that, we need serious performance at the University of Debrecen in the 100 best universities. I think that these facts should be taken into account when we make an opinion. In the Academic Ranking of World Universities ranking, this examines the performance of the world's 2000 best universities in the field 39 majors of 10 Hungarian universities are among the best in the world. That's something to consider again. And if you look at the budget side of higher education for this, you obviously have to read the budget proposal; I admit that it is not easy to read and it is not short, but the figures in it are clear, however, we see that they have increased in 2022 and 2023, and the budget law of 2024 is also about the fact that these resources are increasing significantly. I mention only two figures: in 2023, the budget for higher education is rounded to 501 billion and in 2024 to 551 billion. However you look at it, it's an increase, and it's not an underestimated increase. The same increase can also be seen in international relations in the areas of EU and cross-border higher education, where it is growing from 6.8 billion to 11.5 billion. That's almost double. Let us not forget that the budget for higher education is also part of its own revenue. A significant proportion of Hungarian higher education is not state-owned, but has a foundational reserve, and this has significantly increased the ability to generate its own revenue. Allow me to model with the university where I work myself. The University of Debrecen has a budget of 240 billion, of which roughly 100 billion are health performance funding, and, again rounded up, 40 billion is the budget support for training, education and research, and 100 billion forints of own income from corporate relations. It is no coincidence that, according to Times Higher Education, the University of Debrecen managed to get into such a prestigious place in terms of sustainability and corporate relations. There is a high value added industry in Hungary today, and they usually appear at and near the university centers. Let me just give you one example. The BMW did not come to Debrecen because it likes to look at the mirage, but came to Debrecen because there is a well-functioning university with high knowledge and research results. This is the basis of the Commissioner, and the vocational training system that has been adapted in recent years, and this has been done specifically in the light of labour market and economic needs. The government's strategic goal is to strengthen the link between universities and the economy and to make Hungary the world's top 25 innovators by 2030. Progress has already been made in this regard. It is important to think not only of which companies have already started bringing their development departments here, but also of the fact that not so long ago there was a legislative change on the House's agenda regarding innovation. In the budget, the National Research, Development and Innovation Fund represents more than 20 percent increase, precisely by 22.1 percent. In 2023 this framework was 126.2 billion forints and 154.1 billion forints in 2024. This is a considerable expansion. For the budget pre-financing of GINOP Plus proposals, the budget envisages 409 billion by 2024, of which roughly 130 billion can be allocated to R &amp; D &amp; I. I believe that this is not a small and underestimated amount of resources. The Eötvös Loránd Research Network, which now runs under the name of the Hungarian Research Network, is included in the budget by HUF 66 billion. That's more than 2023. The budget law of 2024 provides the resources needed to preserve the competitiveness of Hungarian higher education and to develop it, and regardless of how and how the negotiations take place with the European Union, let us also add that the mobility and access of students and teachers to European scientific programmes is ensured. Let us also add that this type of EU action is clearly a political action. Once again, let me give you a specific example where the composition of the board of trustees has been challenged. Well, the University of Debrecen is the only, safe to say, in which he was not a politician from the beginning, the Union has also objected to this. So it is simply no wonder that the university is also suing Brussels. The development of the automotive knowledge centre in Debrecen is included in the budget, linked to the high technology and added value industry that BMW represents. The national graft factory and its investment areas and, of course, the special tasks of higher education have also been increased. I think that, if we look only at these areas, we can safely say that higher education and research, development and innovation are also particularly winners of this budget and can build on sound foundations for its longer-term development. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-14-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, allow me to inform the Honourable Parliament: Mr István Simicskó, Head of Group, informed me that the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party in the debate will renounce its further timeframe for the benefit of the Fidesz Group. I would like to take note of this. Dear Parliament, A speech will be made by Mr Zoltán Komáromi, Member of the DK Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-06-14-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Parliament, The health status of the population could be an efficiency, productivity and growth reserve for the economy, which could be improved by prevention, strengthening health awareness and making the institutional system effective. Health is part of national wealth, the foundation of the country's most important resource, human capital. [[18.30]] Long-term illness reduces working time, labour productivity and premature death cause significant damage to the national economy. Therefore, the preservation of existing health benefits society not only from a humanitarian point of view but also from an economic point of view. In addition to a healthy lifestyle, the early detection of the disease can be supported by regular health checks, screening tests and the effective functioning of the general medical system. On the other hand, the health status of the Hungarian population has been falling behind for years, slowly for two decades, and is increasingly lagging behind from countries with similar development in the region, which, due to the gradual ageing of society, is putting an increasing burden on our health care systems, which are facing many challenges. And this trend continues to deteriorate year after year; we cannot see any changes in the parts of the budget that concern the sector. This is the budget for price increases and inflation in Orbán, with the intriguing addition that it does not contain any compensatory items on the enormously increased costs of public health institutions performing public tasks. The current government shows, on the one hand, the responsibility for the health status of the population by means of the government structure and the professionals in charge, and, on the other hand, by means of the budget it presents to the public what it considers important and what it does not. Although, according to the text of the presentation, I quote, the aim of health budget resources is a modern, the XXI. The text, the spirit and the numbers of the bill before us show nothing of the establishment of an efficient and efficient supply system capable of responding adequately to the challenges of the century. In contrast, the government once again sends a message to the Hungarian people that, together with education, they are still not interested in training professionals, maintaining professionals or providing health care for Hungarian people. Nor is it clear what improvements are planned to continue in order to provide high-quality healthcare for Hungarian people, and from what, as part of the better functioning of the healthcare system, they believe, systemic interventions will be carried out to improve the efficiency of the operation of state-owned healthcare institutions providing active inpatient care. However, it turns out that important health improvements were eliminated on the legendary 270 list of János Lázár. One: the development of housing conditions for health workers in Budapest, Gyula and Szolnok. Two: Railway Health Nonprofit Kft. The reconstruction of his medical centre in Budapest has been delayed for years. Three, establish a maternity center at Semmelweis University. Four: the 17th. reconstruction of district, monori and bicske clinics. Five: Development of the Bács-Kiskun County Hospital. Six: the development of a chronic rehabilitation and social care facility in the bathroom and the renovation of the rescue station in Zalaegerszeg. Klára Dobrev's government would be more successful at lobbying for our country's EU funds than the Orbán government, and I am quite certain that justified health developments and, here, in particular, public investment in outpatient care, emergency care and basic care would in no way be stopped. In addition to the government's under-planned inflation, only 9.7 percent increase in the health sector's budget, which in real terms means a 10 percent decrease for professionals and patients working in the sector, says that the erosion of public health will continue next year. The fact that the nominal share of the health sector in the budget has never been so low also sends us the same message. Public spending in the sector is HUF 6589 billion. This could improve the state of public health, as expenditure increases by 11 percent from January compared to the draft 2023, while inflation in Orbán shows a much darker future. However, public health expenditure remains below 6 per cent of GDP, which remains below the EU average. The situation is also colored by the fact that 67-69 percent of healthcare expenditure in Hungary comes from public budget resources, which is 15 percentage points lower than the EU average and 8 percent lower than the Visegrád countries. In essence, this means that what the state system does not cover, i.e. about one third of the costs, will be taken out of its own pocket. This will continue the multi-annual trend of the government's covert aim to shift part of the population into private health. Let's see the numbers. Chapter 7 of the E-Fund, which basically defines the functioning of the public-funded health institution system, contains the page of curative-preventive expenditure. Yesterday, the President of the Fiscal Council also said that since the sector's real estate operations will be carried out by a central logistics body, the government will transfer operations to the Ministry of Finance, but it is not possible to know how much of the 148 billion expenditure of the Directorate-General for Procurement and Supply in this section will be spent on this. However, it is certain, and perhaps a little incomprehensible, that the total amount of the combined specialty is reduced by HUF 34 billion by 3.6 percent. The government likes to talk about how from 2010 it prioritises the moral and financial appreciation of health workers, and they think this is well reflected in the fact that during this time the health sector has received one of the largest wage increases. This may be true of medical salaries, although the rate of increase in starting medical and specialist wages is significantly lower than that of older experienced colleagues. If a young professional does not start working in Hungarian health institutions, he will never be an experienced, elderly doctor. The coverage of the planned wage development of health professionals in two stages is also not found in the submitted law, unless the total amount of the HUF 1.1 billion surplus in the GP section is transferred to the increase in wage support, as this is not specified. But we're looking at a 1 percent wage increase here, so I'm not sure that's what that means. The same numbers are 400 million forints and 0.9 percent for dental care. In the GP section, we have not found a single penny to finance the additional tasks of the practice communities that have been forced by the government for years, although the public health significance of this would be undisputed. Yesterday it was said that the protective women's system was being moved to county hospitals. At that time, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári said that this was to work with better conditions. This amount will rise from HUF 27.25 billion to HUF 27.28 billion. I don't know how that's gonna cover it. If, after all, the total amount of the curative-preventive cash register increases from HUF 2167 billion to HUF 2598 billion, this is a 19 percent increase, but most of it, 346 billion is distributed among the currently unknown headings of the target, and the funding system receives 31 billion grants. These are the cause of the increase, which, in my view, will not be sufficient for the operation and development of the institutions of the health system. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-06-14-122	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Member László Horváth, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-06-14-123	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to talk about child protection in relation to the budget, but since I have been able to listen to a number of speeches previously, let me put my words in a slightly broader framework. If today the state of the world is to be described in one word, then the word is crisis. And that is true, and it is very true of Europe. But there's an economic crisis, world-wide. Let me quote you that the President of the United States announced on Saturday that they had avoided America's first state failure by means of a two-party agreement. What would left-wing fellow Members say about the economic crisis to the Orbán government? [[18.40]] Economic crisis, war crisis, ecological crisis, migration crisis, don't let me continue the line. At all levels, there has been uncertainty in life that simply rewrites the usual frameworks and conditions. And if you have to say a word about what everyone is waiting for, and what the demand is the greatest, then this word "security" is the opposite of "insecurity." These are the security and security points that the Hungarian government today must also find in order to unlock energy and potential for action, because one thing is certain: in the midst of uncertainty, it cannot remain inactive. This budget has at least three such points, which is a security point: one is the family, the other is the workplace and the third is peace. I think that we can agree that these points can really strengthen us as security points. If we are talking about the budget, obviously this is a particularly difficult situation that we are in, but otherwise I don't remember a budget from the last decade that the opposition would have supported, I don't remember anything that he wouldn't have said would collapse, it's just as bad as it is, and it won't last the year. [[Zoltán Varga: I did! Kálmán Olga: That's what happened!]] However, these accusations were rewritten for a year, and the budget for decades wasn't real, and they didn't come in despite all the accusations. Now, as for children, if there is a need for child protection and safety somewhere, it is essential in their case, because the healthy development of children in an uncertain and unsafe environment must be seriously damaged. The first stage of child protection is the safest, most efficient and otherwise the most natural scene of the family. We mean all children in the area of child protection, obviously children at risk deserve special attention, but the most important area of child protection, once again, is the family. And from this point of view, this budget does serve child protection, because it holds 3300 billion forints for families, which is the sum of the family support system for the following year. In particular, let me draw your attention to items that are also very important in terms of child protection. One of these is the task of feeding children, which will receive more than HUF 105 billion in the following year, which is also 75 billion more than last year. And the food for children has proved on several occasions that it can save children's lives in serious, dangerous situations. Even in situations where a child's meal saved a child from starving to death, where not a family in the wrong row, but a family in a well-balanced financial position decided to feed the child with light, and if the child had not gone to a kindergarten during the compulsory kindergarten and had not received the meal for free, he probably would not have been able to avoid the tragedy either. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the amount and amount of free textbook provision will be increased next year, and I think that is not underestimated either. As far as risk is concerned, the state obviously has a key role to play here, but this task cannot be fulfilled solely by relying on the state, because it is also a whole social task. Here it is very important to further strengthen and expand the signalling system, because the dangers that arise are the social, health and psychological threats that are present in new areas, in new areas that carry much larger and still unmeasurable risks with long-term effects. For example, I am thinking of the digital or Internet world, where a generation is growing up slowly with the touch screen at its hands. The data are rather shocking and ominous, but it is certainly fascinating, as the survey carried out by the National Media and Communications Authority shows that children in these 8-15-year-olds stare at the phone for nearly four hours a day, and two out of three of the 10-15-year-olds are already on the social media, using this media, and apparently, the content appearing here is already a serious threat and represents a serious influence, causing an addiction that can easily be compared to drug, alcohol or nicotine addiction, since it has already been scientifically proven that the consumption of these content has caused the brain to select a so-called reward carrier, dopamine, which is virtually the same mechanism that is characteristic of other addictions. In the context of endangerment and in the context of the signalling system, it should also be said that there is a need to continue to be more and more attention, to provide a source, and to ensure that the violence against children can not only be suppressed but also eliminated. This may seem like an impossible goal in today's world, but anyone who doesn't try the impossible in today's world doesn't achieve what's available, what's possible. Here we are still in the position of zero tolerance in relation to violence, any violence, physical, mental, emotional violence, or pedophilia, or transgender or even LGBTQ propaganda. We have also taken a number of steps with legislative amendments, which have served prevention as a deterrent, and we have also set up an organisation that has radically reduced the number of violent cases in schools in the field of education, with preventive action in educational institutions through the institution of the school guard, and with deterrent action in recent years, and this system must continue to be maintained. And as far as sexual violence is concerned, there must be a serious assessment of anyone who, by the way, extras or supports what he is doing, because out of ignorance, this better case might extradite something that can't otherwise be expressed in cash, while otherwise it's all about money. You can also see this, today it is clear what billion-dollar capital circles stand behind the entire LGBTQ and transgenderity, while developmental philosophy has clearly demonstrated that growth has a specific order and can't be avoided, and anyone who interferes with this, who disturbs it, doesn't know what he's playing with and what damage he's causing. So in connection with this, it is necessary to broaden and strengthen the signalling system, because it has no place to be, and especially proudly there is no place for such ideas of nature, creation, God and life among our children. Leave them alone! Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[18.50]]
u2023-06-14-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-06-14-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State! Day two, so many hours ago, the House is debating the thing called the draft budget law. The reason I say this is because, in principle, the Parliament accepts the budget in order to plan and predictablely show both its citizens, entrepreneurs, home and abroad what it can expect from the country, how much revenue it wants to collect once more: from its own citizens or businesses, and what it intends to spend this money, of course, what tax system, what revenue structure it will cost; what growth it expects, what the value of the national currency, what inflation it will expect, and how everyone can shape their own lives to do so, of course, because without it, they have nothing, but entrepreneurs and kind citizens can also calculate what will happen to them. Dear Secretary of State, This proposal is not very good at complying with them. If you do this for the first time, you can come with me, but we'll see that it doesn't happen, and we won't scare you here, because this budget is gonna stand up. Mr. Secretary, that's just a bunch of bullshit. Last year we stood here, sitting in this building, when they were also kind at the end of the spring session during an outbreak of war, energy crisis, inflationary pressure to do the same stupid thing, that they had Parliament accepted a year in advance, and apparently my fellow Members from Fideszes-KDNP pressed the button cheerfully and singing, as if there were no budget tomorrow with Parliament last year. They're saying it wasn't worth the spring. Not only was this not worth the spring, I would also say, Mr Secretary of State, to my former speaking colleague, Fidesz, but it was not worth the winter. So before its entry into force, an empty bastard did not understand the law that was passed with this House, and you knew it exactly the moment you defended him here as a mother tiger, he said the clever things on behalf of the government. That's true now, Mr. Secretary. The following could not be hit with a budget, but this is a bit unpleasant. The rate of GDP growth has not been hit, not even a little. Four percent, technically, the country's been in a technical recession for months. We failed to hit inflation, which I stress once again to 5 percent: it was planned for 5 percent last year. I would like to note that whoever described this 5% has either not touched it or deliberately misled the Hungarian Parliament. None of them would justify putting a budget in front of this House this summer. Could not hit the forint exchange rate, which is a very small factor of a budget, given that very, very much, expenditure and revenue depend on it in the order of magnitude. As a matter of fact, fellow Members, the present proposal will be the same. He can't be different. This was also described literally by the Budget Council in flowering language when it said that redesign is inevitablely likely, and the budget for this I say the compass of the term "flora" cannot fill. I don't know yet what kind of character he is, by the way, six months before the entry into force, but to point us in the direction. I'm sure you won't. In my opinion, a decent Budget Council, which upholds the letter and spirit of the law, would not have written that, Mr Secretary of State, but rather that they should have concluded that, without knowing the closing act, such bluff laws would be adopted in advance under the budget law. They're fooling everyone, they're fooling themselves! Their own government members, the ministry staff, the companies, the companies, their own citizens. You can't adapt to that. And they still don't know what's gonna happen next year, Mr. Secretary. They don't even know what's going on. And before the final report of 22 is approved, this plenum, as Parliament, will not know, and this is how we adopt a budget for next year. Back to last year because you had the experience, what happened? They took themselves, and with a government decree, and let me not quote historical times, when it was, by the way, it never was, in the wildest period of time, when government decrees were issued in favour of a functioning parliament, a complete budget law is passed on a rainy end of December, if I remember correctly, or a new budget was issued in the middle of a snowfall, sharing a good day, as the boss used to say. Then, when it turned out that this was not appropriate in European countries, this spring, this House was discussing the whole new budget, with totally different numbers than the ones the House accepted last year. If I'm not mistaken, Mr. Secretary, you know better than I do, I'm sure this year's budget will have to be touched. It's another matter of bringing him in here, in front of the House, or rewriting him gracefully again with some government decree. So, overall, the function that you said originally was to bring forward the adoption of the budget by the end of the spring session, so that it can be predictable, planable for people and companies, well, this function must not be fulfilled at the moment, which, in contrast, will only cause chaos and confusion for everyone. Because we've seen exactly what's going on: government decrees are loading tens and hundreds of billions at 10:00 p.m., and government decrees are charging extra taxes on war. What does the extra Hungarian savings tax have to do with the Ukrainian war in Russia, tell me, Mr. Secretary of State? It's an indicative, indicative thing. This is not a budget, and this is something that needs to be dealt with in this regard. It would have been easier if a press release had been published that you thought they would spend more on this next year, and less on that, and we discussed the budget in the autumn, after closing the accounts. I always touch defense and law enforcement. If we look at it as a law, the first sentence that stands by itself is that the main amount of the Ministry of Defence chapter will be reduced next year. Now, I don't want to live with this kind of crap used by government parties to finish the sentence here. Of course, it won't be in the chapter section of the Ministry of Defence, the Defense Fund, and they're planning to spend a lot of money on developing the Defence Service. There are two small problems with this, apart from the fact that, as Vice-President of the Defence Committee, I am only very happy to acknowledge this. One is that on the revenue side of this Defence Fund there is some uncertainty about extra taxes, which is not coming directly from the budget, and on the other hand, as Vice-President of the Defence Committee, honourable Secretary of State, we still have no idea what this government spends thousands of billions on and why. And then there are such intermesters, as they are today, that the United States Congress is publishing a statement that Hungary can't buy HIMARS missiles worth $735 million, or HUF 260 billion, which is the most modern, and we can see that in the current war, it was the only instrument that effectively reversed the Russian march, and the Ministry of Defence is publishing a two-line statement that, yeah, we weren't planning to buy one. That's a defense reform really, so congratulations, everyone. One thing we know, we know by number: Minister, last year he filed a personal income tax return of some HUF 3 billion, which is obviously celebrated with tears everywhere by the whole nation. We don't know what the money is going to be spent on, and we still don't know, in vain, that the Fidesz majority of the Defence Committee has already voted to come in and tell the minister what's going to happen. It didn't happen. For example, if you look at the budget, how is the dismantling of the Honvéd Hospital now? We hear the chaotic things from inside, but we don't know what the point of it was, what it looks like now, and how the military part of it works. As far as the internal affairs wallet is concerned, because my time is almost up, it is to be welcomed that, at last, in the prison, it seems like they're actually starting to build a big prison, because we're in a lunatic state where you're releasing hundreds of criminals from prison, released from the door, because there's not enough room in there. That's great, I'm sure we've been listening to it in every Fidesz government program talking about security, but it's a good thing they're launching that program. For the record, 9 prisons have been promised, and I note quietly that many rural settlements would be pleased to receive them. Let me tell you one more thing quickly. You tell me, Secretary of State, that we can change the budget so that Hungarian firefighters have insurance. Because today was the day of the scandal that the Ministry of Interior didn't have enough money in its chapter, that it couldn't tie up today's firefighters, the accident insurance for us and the people who risked their lives. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] [[19.00]] The contract's over, and BM said he didn't have enough money to make it again. I would add, Mr. Secretary, this may be the time to see who pays such special taxes at the end of the day: the ministries and all Hungarian people. I would ask the Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, if you can, to give me a reassuring answer. Thank you very much.
u2023-06-14-126	Two-minute speeches are possible. I give the floor to Congressman Erik Bánki, Chairman of the Economic Committee. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2023-06-14-127	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We've heard a lot of nonsense in today's debate, but I see Congressman Bellozó is trying to win this bidding contest... [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: I expected it!]] We were counting on it because we were used to it in previous debates. So this nonsense, Congressman, you said, is literally this because the government amended the budget by regulation, and then presented a completely different, completely new budget to the House, after it seemed uncomfortable for you, this situation is not on a thank-you basis with the truth. That's literally a lie, Congressman. In no case has the government amended the allocations with its regulations. [[Interviews from DK: He rewritten the budget!]] He has made internal transfers precisely to finance the reduction of the rent, the increase in the Defence Fund and economic protection measures at a time when a war broke out in our neighborhood. He didn't rewrite the budget. [[Interviews from DK: But he rewritten the budget!]] You guys know that. That's the order you need to make. But, Congressman, you obviously remember that, and obviously everyone's starting out on their own, your party president, Ferenc Gyurcsány, has rewritten the budget. [[Kálmán Olga: Oh! Finally!]] And not only did he rewrite it, conned the entire European Commission, and then admitted that they lied in the morning and at noon. Hundreds of tricks were used in order to sweat out a budget that you have the nerve to submit and which you will try to swallow with the European Commission. Well, congratulations on that. That's your attitude, not our attitude. Mr Secretary of State, if you think you will tell us the details of the changes that have been made, but once again, the changes that have not affected the corner numbers have been made, transfers that have become necessary in such an extraordinary situation as the Russian-Ukrainian war in our neighbourhood. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-06-14-128	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, As no one has applied for a further two-minute speech, we will now continue with the speeches in the normal time frame. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mary Kállai, Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2023-06-14-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Knowing the budget for the year 2024, listening to Minister Mihály Varga's presentation, I can say that I am absolutely convinced that, despite the extremely difficult times in the budget of 2024, everything is together to further strengthen the country's defence. On the basis of the draft law, we can maintain the system of subsidies, full employment, the protection of jobs, and we can guarantee the protection of families and pensioners in wartime. If we look at these values, I think that such a difficult and, as my fellow Member has said, in times of crisis, this alone is an achievement. The points of gravity above show that responsible planning requires a defence budget that protects the country's security, families, jobs, pensions and reduced overhead. The prolonged war, the crisis, the unstable world economy environment, the negative effects of the failed sanctions policy are also facing very serious challenges for Hungary. A responsible proposal is the draft budget, which guarantees that it guarantees our most important values. If you look at the main figures, the planned economic growth is 4 percent, the general government deficit is planned for less, 2.9 percent, and the public debt is planned for 3 percent less, 66.7 percent. I am convinced that responsible planning is based on realistic soils. Defending inflation remains a strong objective. The planned inflation rate is 6 per cent, but we continue to aim at making this figure a single digit by December 2023. The budget of 24 is counting on the current war situation, but it would be good to believe that during the implementation period, we will have a period of peace. I would like to point out that, thanks to government measures, the performance of the economy and the work of the Hungarian people, the Hungarian economy performed well in 2022 and expanded by 4.6 percent. The government's explicit aim is to prevent the economic downturn and continue to grow again this year. Of course, based on what has already been said above, we are obviously counting on a much lower rate of 1.5 percent, but there is a realistic chance that this will again be 4 percent in 2024. As far as sectoral resources are concerned, we have said a lot, in many ways, here today. First, I would like to say a few thoughts about the educational area. Education costs exceed HUF 3400 billion in 2024 and this is an increase of EUR 2000 billion compared to 2010. If you compare it to a percentage, it's a 138 percent increase. My colleague Pósan spoke about higher education. If we take higher education out of this amount I have just mentioned, this increase is 158 percent compared to 2024. There is a significant increase, then HUF 400 billion for the following year, compared to the revised budget of this year. At the same time, we also see that the structure of the budget is very complex, so when we talk about education, other wallets and other sectors also enrich this system. As far as wages are concerned, the budget of 2024 provides more than HUF 1600 billion for the wages of education workers, nearly double that of the last budget submitted by left-wing governments in 2010. Yes, the government continues to expect that, under the agreement with the European Union, the funds that are rightfully due to our country are the basis for ensuring that teachers continue to raise their wages. As far as general education is concerned, if you look at its contents, the draft provides an amount for the different chapters. Some highlights without the need for completeness: as I said, further development of wage increases, development of IT infrastructure, support for kindergarten education, continuous support for talent management, compensation for disadvantages, provision of training, competitions for studies. It is also possible for the draft budget to be met because of the resources managed by the Education Office, which include a number of improvements, the task of continuing to develop public education, as well as the corresponding resources in the draft budget for the tasks to be performed by the Klebelsberg Centre. I think we all know responsibly that we need a very tight, very responsible, very economical farming at this time, but it is also clear that we can keep our achievements so far. As far as culture is concerned, it is also necessary to prepare for crisis-resistant operations in the year 2024. If anything, we can guarantee Hungarian people and families access to culture. Thanks to the Rezségvédelmi Fund, our institutions operate, and the preservation and development of performing art values remains an important goal. It is worth looking a little deeper at the amount invested in cultural activity. Again, in comparison with 2010 and 2024 we can say that there is an increase of 279 percent. I think, in addition to numbers and facts, that if we go to any settlements, any small settlements, even in the countryside, in addition to the numbers and the facts, all of this can be justified at the level of sensations. It can also be justified by numbers and facts that the expenditure on culture at European level characterizes Hungary. Dear Parliament, Any branch of human space could be analyzed for a long time. I think that this budget has its fair share. Minister Mihály Varga put it this way, and I quote him: "The draft budget before us is a draft plan to protect the results achieved in times of war. This is why I propose to the entire Parliament that it adopt the budget for the year 24. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-06-14-130	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Olga Kálmán, DK Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2023-06-14-131	Thank you very much. Do you know that an economics concept has already been named after the Prime Minister? Do you know that today, everyone speaks of our country as, oh, the place where inflation in Orbán rages? I know they still have a time frame, so they're going to protest soon, and they're going to speak out loud about Brussels, sanctions, evil left-wing politicians. [[19.10]] I often wonder when I listen to you: do you really believe all these lies? Or are they simply trying to save the unsavory in such an unprofessional way? Do you believe that Hungary produces three times the average inflation rate in Europe because it is the only way that we and Russia are affected by sanctions? Do you believe that Hungary is producing three times the average inflation rate in Europe because it is only us and us that is affected by the war in Ukraine? Do you believe that Hungary itself produces three times the average inflation rate in Europe because left-wing politicians with all their fat have managed to make things better in all other European countries, and not to reduce real earnings in all other European countries? Have we managed to make shopping in Austria cheaper than at home today? There have been so many examples in the last 13 years that we will soon catch up with Austria. Today, we have not only caught up with it, but we have actually prevented it, as have the other Member States of the Union. This Hungarian miracle, I told you, is a real Hungaricum. It's called inflation in Orbán. Yeah, we outrun Austria in food prices. Due to inflation in Orbán, Hungarian food prices doubled in two years, and there was no such increase anywhere in the EU. First in prices, last in wages in the EU. Even Romanian wages have preceded Hungarians, and only Bulgarians earn less than Hungarians. But let's look in detail at the Hungarian wages, which will increase the trouble, the trouble you caused! An average European citizen earns three times as much as a Hungarian, but an Austrian, for example, makes five times as much. Today, Hungarians should pay the highest prices in Europe from one of Europe's lowest salaries. And this is not because Hungarians work less or worse, because the Hungarian government has built Hungarian economic policy on cheap labour. The Orbán government does not see low Hungarian wages as a problem to be solved, but as an advantage and even desirable thing. After all, it attracts Chinese battery companies, assembly plants and low-paying, low-value investments to Hungary. For the past 13 years, you have ruined everything that can be ruined in a country's economic policy. Their unorthodox economic policy, the immeasurable corruption, whose greatest beneficiaries are the Prime Minister and his favorite oligarchs and family members. His sufferer, and his injury to the Hungarian people. We pay all the costs of the Orbán Mafia government. For the past 13 years, when planning the next year's budget, I'm optimistic, or rather saying that naively, you've always had a thought that you might come to your senses. If, in addition to keeping their own power, they think of the livelihood of the Hungarian people, our everyday life, of course, if the miracle happens and they manage to hammer a budget that can make our everyday lives better; it is finally not about how they can skin another skin off of us with extra taxes, which, of course, we pay; with extra high VAT, which of course, we pay; to stop the rustling, the mindless distribution of money. But it didn't. This year neither we nor the people who live here were thought of when their untenable draft budget was drawn up in all its elements. Even the Fiscal Council, which cannot be accused of government criticism, draws attention to risks. It is a strange toy of fate that these criticisms largely coincide with the criticisms expressed by DK, even in a more cautious way. According to this, the achievement of the deficit target can be considered to be very risky. In 2024 the government's prognosis considered GDP growth, consumption and exports to be more optimistic than the moderate macroeconomic analysts. The state budget for 2024 submitted by the Orbán government to Parliament is full of air-borne figures. Your budget does not account for inflation in Orbán, rising public debt and interest expenditure, nor for the lack of EU money. And as always in everything, the Hungarian people will pay for the consequences of your work. As their great economic guru Lőrinc Ripper used to say, "Well, be brave at last." Let's call this a paper called a budget: it's a budget for price increases. On this basis, inflation in Orbán will continue and the situation of the Hungarian economy will continue to deteriorate. The Orbán government's budget is based on false data and does not take into account the livelihood and debt crisis, the depreciation of salaries and pensions. On behalf of the Shadow Government, the Democratic Coalition presented parliamentary proposals for a resolution, which would create the budget for 2024 by halting inflation in Orbán. It is proposed to reduce VAT on basic food, overhead and fuel, to increase the wages of civil servants and to increase pensions in relation to real price increases and wage increases, with Swiss indexation. On behalf of the shadow government led by Klára Dobrev, the Democratic Coalition submitted an alternative budget for wage increases to the Parliament. This was therefore necessary because Viktor Orbán's budget will continue to cut back next year: price increases, tax increases, increase inflation in Orbán and deepen the livelihood crisis. Here's what we would do, what the shadow government would do, what Klara Dobrev's government would do. We would use 1325 billion forints to put an end to the livelihood crisis. We would raise the wages of teachers and social workers significantly, and we would also be able to improve the number of people employed in education and health care. We would help pensioners with a pension increase and a one-off retirement supplement, which would amount to a total extra HUF 600 billion for pensions. We would help families by doubling the family allowance, and by increasing the social and child protection support of the municipalities, to which a total of 341 billion forints would be allocated. We'd like to launch our Panel Program Plus home and house renovation program, the first phase of it. In five years, one and a half million flats and family houses would be renovated and isolated by the shadow government from EU and domestic sources. Next year, we would spend 100 billion forints on the energy modernisation of residential buildings, 50 billion forints to support small and medium-sized enterprises' costs, and another 50 billion to support the construction of environmentally friendly wind and solar power plants. In addition, we would restart the development of Budapest, which the Orbán government has taken from political vengeance: for example, the railway bridge of Gubacs, the subway line of the remaining 4 would be extended to Bosnyák tér, and we would finish the section of the M0 ring around the capital. We would raise the development resources of county-righted cities, small towns and villages, bypass roads, railway lines, ferries, rescue stations, we would spend some HUF 186 billion on a total of 30 developments, including the alternative budget of the shadow government. So the shadow government led by Dobrev Klára is working to break down inflation in Orbán and not to increase prices, but wages and pensions. But you're doing the exact opposite. Their budget for 2024 is proof of this. I would like to say that it is not too late to think, try to act for the country and not to keep their power, but it is too late, because the Hungarian families have already lived up to their reserves; which, of course, has not run out yet, and you will now be subject to another tax. Hungarian families are already forced to spend most or all of their income on food, maintaining everyday life, because of your power politics and immeasurable waste of money and money. They can't undo this! It can't be undone. But there is one thing you can do: to withdraw this power-policy instrument called the budget! Thank you. [[Let's hear it for the DK benches.]] [[19.20]]
u2023-06-14-132	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State. State Secretary Péter Banai would like to take the floor. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2023-06-14-133	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, With regard to the comments made by Congresswoman Olga Kálmán, let us make so many remarks that one should be a little pissed off when one hears expressions from this side of the Parliament horseshoe that are based on false data, a budget based on air figures. Of course, everyone has the right... [[Kálmán Olga intervenes.]] Madam Congresswoman, of course, everyone has the right to give their opinion, and we also know that in the debate on the budget, there are two organisations that classify the draft budget. In addition, one of the organisations that was set up after 2011 is called the Budgetary Council, which has a unique veto right before the adoption of the budget in Europe. [[Kálmán Olga: They didn't praise him either! Dr. Zoltán Komáromi: But they didn't say good things about him!]] Everyone has the right to give their opinion. Both organisations expressed their views through the President in the parliamentary debate here. He said that yes, there are risks in every budget. I agree that there are also risks in the budget of 2024. But the point of their work is that these risks have been weighed. The President of the State Audit Office stated exactly how much of the appropriations represent a risk, the reserves are sufficient to cover these risks or not. Both organizations have said that this budget stands on its feet. I'm asking you to consider that. Once. The second thing is that many criticisms are raised about the debate on the budget during the spring session, the Parliament adopts it at the beginning of summer. Yes, the early budget has risks, and we believe there are benefits. But when they recall how much these budgets stand on their feet, I would remind everyone that this is the ninth budget that Parliament can adopt at the beginning of the summer. Let's go back to the last nine years. Indeed, the 2023 budget had to be amended, but I would not consider this a failure, but rather I think that the government has reacted to radically changing circumstances. If you call it a failure that the budget had to be amended, then I would ask you to tell the European Commission that too. Let us look at the economic prognosis the European Commission issued last spring and how it changed its sequence in the autumn. [[Kálmán Olga: They don't even know the data on.23!]] So this was very important. The second thing I consider relevant... [[Zoltán Varga intervenes.]] Yeah, I hear the observation that it's a prognosis. Please, in budget 2023, the majority of the government and Parliament have set the direction that economic policy should follow in 2023. He has designated the areas on which we focus our resources. It was like... [[Zoltán Varga: Any luck?]] Yeah, I did. [[Erik Bánki: Absolutely!]] That's what protecting jobs was like. Did you or didn't you? [[Peter Cherry: That's right!]] That's how we cut our rent. Were we able to keep the overhead cut or not? [[Kálmán Olga: Sure...]] Based on Eurostat data, gas prices are the lowest for the population in Hungary [[Kálmán Olga: The most expensive!]] , electricity is the second lowest. This is something that is worth returning to with regard to inflation. The third direction was to preserve the real value of pensions. Pensions have been increased with an adjusted rate of inflation. It is possible that the inflation rate will be different, and then on the basis of August figures and continuously received figures, the government will analyse the projections. [[Kálmán Olga: It's not a budget, it's a prognosis!]] If necessary, it will carry out an additional increase and set it in the pension system...
u2023-06-14-134	Congresswoman! Excuse me, Mr. Secretary. I don't remember you talking, the Secretary of State ever interfered. I think we should give each other respect, Mr. Secretary, with sufficient professional content. Thank you. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-06-14-135	Thank you, Mr. President. The third was therefore the protection of pensions. The 13th month pension has been paid. The fourth is family support. I will never argue with the congresswoman that the conditions have changed compared to the budget originally adopted in 2023. But the four objectives set by the Parliament at the time of the adoption of the original budget law of 2023 were kept in mind by the government and tabled an amendment to the Honourable Parliament. It's only the year 2023. I repeat, it is worth looking at the practice that has been followed since 2016. The following factor, which has been discussed many times, is the inflation process you call inflation in Orbán. [[Kálmán Olga: Yes!]] For the manyth time, I have not heard this indicator in 2014 or 2015, when prices in Hungary have fallen exceptionally in European terms. I would add that in both years a positive increase was made in pensions. So what was due then, in 2014 and 15 to the negative level of the consumer price index? For example, the reduction of the overhead. I remember a lot of these benches attacking this measure at the time, but the Congresswoman said in her comment the term "residuality." So when we talk about inflation, I would like to highlight the reduction in overhead costs, which is also low in Hungary in the international context, which protects a large part of the consumption basket against the energy prices that are getting out of control, and the inflation that is getting out of control. As far as international data is concerned, our facts are up to the end of last year. I have in my hand the European Commission's sequence of figures. Last year, inflation was higher, for example, in the Baltic countries and in all three Baltic countries. This set of figures also shows that in 2021 the EU average inflation level was 2.9 per cent and 9.2 per cent in 2022. Thus, inflation has increased by more than three times, and inflation has increased in all countries. [[Kálmán Olga intervenes.]] That's right. Hungary... [[Zoltán Varga: How much is now in Romania?]] Hungary... I will turn to Romanian inflation if the Member does not intervene. So in Hungary we know that most of the energy consumption comes from imports. Thanks to this reduction in overhead prices, the current account has been hit much better than, for example, Romania, where we know what oil stocks there are. So let's look at the current account. Let's look at how spending has increased because of the reduction in overhead costs, because of the protection of households. Can we find a Rehabilitation Fund in the budget two or three years ago? Can we find him? [[Erik Bánki: No.]] We can't find him. This year we will spend more than HUF 2600 billion on this purpose. Thus, the current account is also influenced by the loss of energy prices, and, yes, by the budget. It also has an impact on the exchange rate. The Hungarian foreign exchange response to energy prices was greater than in other countries. Yeah, that's another one in inflation. Let us not forget that there has been a historical drought in Hungary. This appeared in food prices. Yes, if someone says that the efficiency of our food sector must also be improved, he expresses this kind of criticism, I say that yes, one of the tools we need to increase the Hungarian food sector from is the rural development programme. So there are many factors in the evolution of inflation. My statement from the European Commission is that inflation has increased radically in all European countries. Yes, there are differences, in which local specialties appear, and my statement is that the European Commission's latest public document expects a lower inflation rate by 2024 compared to that assumed by the Hungarian government. They count 4 percent. This is where I return to Romania. Let's look at this public document. The European Commission believes that inflation will be higher in 2024 than in Hungary, for example, in Romania, Bulgaria, Poland or Slovakia. So in this context, allow me to argue with your findings. As far as wages go. Once again, Congresswoman, I think you may not have used the latest data. In terms of purchasing power of gross average earnings, Hungary is ahead of eight countries, i.e. not one, and six countries at minimum wage levels. We can tell you how good it would be to get ahead of 20 countries. If you say so, Congresswoman, I will say that I fully agree with you. But let's also see where we started. Let's look at the rental dynamics of the last few years. Allow me to give you some numbers. Two thousand..., I do not know when, in 2016, the change in net real earnings compared to the previous year is 7.4; in 2017 it is 10.3; in 2018 it is 8.3; in 2019 it is 7.6; in 2020 it is 6,3 net real earnings, inflation-adjusted earnings; in 2021 it is 3.6 per cent, in 2022 it is 2.5 per cent. [[19.30]] So, at national level, there was a significant increase in wages, not in all areas, not everywhere, but, for example, in the area of health that you mentioned. Within public expenditure in health, wages increase significantly from 2023 to 2024; health wage expenditure increases more than fourfold in the central budget compared to 2010. So, I think that if the Member puts her comments in a way that there are still a few areas where we need to improve, there are other indicators where there is room for improvement in a European comparison, then I will never argue with you. At the same time, let me reject these statements and ask you to judge the draft budget law before us on the basis of the facts submitted, the projections submitted, on the basis of the figures submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-14-136	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, No one has applied for a two-minute speech, so we will continue with the speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Cseresnyés, Group Fidesz. [[Kálmán Olga is talking to Peter Benő Banai.]] Thank you for your understanding. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2023-06-14-137	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Just for one sentence. I hope that my fellow opposition Members have listened carefully to Mr Secretary of State's comment, if not, then I must say that it would have benefited them if it had, and then learn from it, and I think most of all in the drafting of comments on the ground of reality. Over the past few years, the concept of security has been mentioned in numerous contributions, and I would like to share some thoughts about the safe operation of the municipalities and some thoughts about their budgetary dimension. The central budget support system of local authorities is based on the task-based support scheme developed in 2013 which is adapted to the tasks of the local government in 2024. In addition, the design had to take into account the economic difficulties caused by the corona virus, the effects of the war in the country next to our borders and the failed EU sanctions policy. In addition to taking these effects into account, the general principles in the draft budget law will be reflected in the funding of municipalities in 2024 as in previous years. These include measures to support families and further increase employment. Also in 2023, the increase in salary resulting from the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, as well as the increase in wages in the public education sector, which also affects local authorities, has led to a significant change. The draft budget law for 2024 contains the necessary resources. It is a very important area in the field of care, education and education in both the state and the municipalities. Local governments play an important role in the care of the youngest generation to receive adequate education and care, as a successful future will be based on the next generation. In addition to education and education, this is why the budget pays attention not only to the feeding of children, which has been a priority so far, but also to the effective organisation of the small children's care system. Accordingly, the amount of allowances for nursery and mini-cradle care is constantly increasing in parallel with the increase in space. Task-based funding has provided for years in the case of nursery and mini-cradle care to cover the salaries of daycare workers, while providing an adequate contribution to daycare operating expenses. The government has given priority to the task of ensuring institutional children's meals and holiday meals, and significant resources remain available for these purposes. From 2021 onwards, the solidarity contribution will be used to compensate for the income inequalities in the municipal sub-scheme, which will be met by a part of the high municipalities with a tax capacity per capita. The solidarity contribution improves equal opportunities as it contributes to improving the financing of lower-income municipalities and to meeting other funding targets. This enabled the smallest municipalities to carry out their tasks without any major problems and to carry out their planned improvements in the interests of the people living there. According to the 2024 bill, the solidarity contribution is based on the tax base of the municipalities, which is the same as in 2023. The category and extent of the solidarity contribution, depending on the tax capacity per capita, did not change, with the planned revenue allocation of approximately HUF 307 billion. Any item supporting general operation will continue to be supplemented by an additional item for municipalities with low tax power. The categories and extent of the addition vary compared to 2023. Instead of 13 300 forints, municipalities can gradually receive a variable supplement in the event of an industrial tax capacity of up to 15 600 forints per capita. This decision is also conducive to the daily lives of municipalities with more modest opportunities. Local authorities are expected to manage some HUF 4186 billion in 2024 without credit resources, as already stated in the debate, with a central budget of approximately HUF 1050 billion. Like this year, in 2024 the extended Rezségvédelmi Fund is a key element of the budget, which ensures the protection of Hungarian families and businesses from energy prices due to war and sanctions. The Fund also provides compensation for central budgetary bodies and local governments, support for church and civil institution-holders and public-owned companies. This is complemented by support from the central budget. The Rezségvédelmi Alap supports the payment of the bills of families, state and local government bodies, companies by about HUF 1400 billion. These measures not only ensure the operation of the municipalities, but also provide the municipal contribution of the development opportunities obtained in the tenders, if necessary to the well-farmed municipalities. Allow me to show you, through some examples, how effectively this has worked in my constituency, for example, in the past, even in difficult times. I am doing this because, despite the complaints of the opposition at that time, the operation of the municipalities and its thoughtful and thoughtful developments were smooth. In my constituency there are 81 settlements of less than five thousand, most of which are settlements of less than one thousand. These settlements have been able to spend more than 10 billion forints on development in the past period, and let me highlight one of these development lines, the development under the Hungarian village programme, which meant more than 4 billion forints to these 81 settlements, with the help of which community squares, medical clinics, kindergartens, roads and sidewalks could be renewed. These small settlements were able to make unprecedented improvements during the previous period, and under more modest circumstances it will continue in the next period as we intend. Let me give you an example of when left-wing politicians can only complain. With this complaint, they may point to their own incompetence, and their incompetence is always compensated by pointing out to others, or by government not paying attention. The majority of my city, Nagykanizsa county town, can be mentioned as an excellent example. Nagykanizsa has received more than HUF 2 billion since the Covid outbreak. These funds could or could have been used for wage measures, operations or specific developments, because the majority of the left-wing players in Nagykanizsa have not been able to use the HUF 588 million granted by the government for development for more than two years. The majority on the left are unable to spend this money on development in the interests of the people who live there. [[19.40]] Yet they, this majority on the left, are constantly trying to make people think that the government is hurting our city. Contrary to this statement, the government has also proved with this HUF 2 billion that, despite the difficult economic environment, it can support and help local governments to solve their problems. Despite the challenges of an unstable international environment, the aim is therefore to maintain the security of the economy, families and municipalities. This objective can also be realistic today because work-based economic policy has been in place in Hungary since 2010. Unfortunately, in the light of the recent manifestations of the left, it should be concluded that if they were to govern, there would be no one million more Hungarian workers in the labour market today, there would be no reduction in government deficits and no reduction in public debt and no investors would come to the country. The crises over the past years have demonstrated more clearly than ever the validity and results of the economic policy of the last decade, and precisely because these results are tangible both in the operation and in the development of the economy, I would ask my fellow opposition Members to consider, among other things, the proposals made by the Secretary of State, to adopt the budget when it comes to the vote. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-14-138	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Statement will be made by Mr Zoltán Varga, DK Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-06-14-139	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Well, the set of paper in front of you has been classified in many ways, we've classified it here. You usually call it a budget, but in fact put your hand on your heart, you know you're obviously not going to dare to admit it, but it's not a budget, it's a voluntary confession that the Orbán course can't govern, either well or badly. Stealing, that's brilliant, so much so that they stole themselves so much that they stole the foundation out of this whole story, and now it's all starting to fall apart. And, well, it was probably your job and your colleagues to try and subdue this somehow, see if we could make it. Well, I'd like to tell you that this whole thing is creaking, I don't know how long it's gonna take. And we can agree on another thing, I think, that is, and this will also be the same as the previous, that you secretly agree with me, obviously you will not admit that an inhuman and vile course that doesn't notice millions of people in poverty, but it is also inhuman and vile that politicians, or politicians, who, with arrogance and arrogance, make laws that kick even more at those who, by birth, opportunity, age, or life situation, are unable to hold on to real state, without government help in life, and so fall into prospects, poverty, in many cases nothing. The Orbán course is just like that. It's inhuman and vile, who are puffing the elderly, the poor, and those who may never have been given the chance to walk on the sunny side of life, and, in fact, whose present life situation, let's say, his torture, is actually your sin. The Prime Minister, and the NER vassals serving his system, well, creating a kind of deep state, alternative scythian rule, has been pocketing billions for 10-13 years, with the least interest in the fact that tens of thousands of Hungarian families are in ever more impossible situations, that the much-mentioned social safety net has simply rotted over the past 13 years, and that, in the absence of it, not only the poorest, but also slowly the middle class members of the lower middle class can fall into nothing. It doesn't matter to you anymore. It's only about your pockets. Remember? Once upon a time, it was a long time ago that your slogan was to dare to dream big. Well, that worked. Let's face it, you did it. And there is the problem, not only you, but ten million Hungarians as well, that in Europe the great dream of the former young Democrat Viktor Orbán was built in just 13 years, and the richest 1 percent of Hungarians own 33.5 percent of the Hungarian wealth. And we know the richest one percent by name, by face. [[Péter Cseresnyés: Gyurcsány!]] Some families are connected almost exclusively to the NER aristocracy with a past of 13 years and a judge, and within it to the government. Well, let's just say we're talking mostly about well-known, self-proclaimed political celebrities. It's them, yeah, we know. And let's talk a little bit about what we've heard so many times in this House, the work-based vision of Orbán. But this is nothing more than a fascism, inhuman political product, where, in fact, everyone thinks they're worth as much as they have. The illiberal system of NER is the world of Taigetus, where if someone is not a beneficiary of the inner circle of NER, or is poor, they need care, they need help, who, because of his age, his health, has been excluded from the world of work, or has never been able to work, for the NER State Machine, for you, he does not exist, in your eyes, he is not really human. You remember, in the autumn session, in the debate on the despicable and inhumane social law amendment, you tried to blunder one of their most terrible measures, which is now the law itself. They insisted then that your deep state did not want to withdraw from social care, and the government did not want to shake off the burden of social care. But what happened? In recent months, it has turned out that this is what you have done, and this is what you have done. You, despite all your dissenting arguments, have taken your hands off the help, the need for care. The Taigetos Act is your world, honourable government representatives. And the budget of 2024 that we are looking at is an eloquent proof of this: while inflation in Orbán once again says that inflation in Orbán is unique in the heavens in Europe, and I would like to say, Mr State Secretary, that inflation in Orbán is twice as high as Romanian inflation, basic food is priceless, and even fresh fruit is a luxury on the table of Hungarian workers, you are, in a mean way, reducing the amount of social benefits by more than 18 percent in nominal terms. They do so by adding this inflation rate to the inflation rate in Orbán now, in the middle of the year, to more than 20 per cent, and by adding this inflation rate to the inflation rate in Orbán, and why shouldn't we do so, because the Hungarians are waking up with this, in a unique way in Europe, they give 39.7% less to those whose share is bitterness instead of yachting and free castles. It's you! And I'd say there's no excuse here and there. While your esteemed gas mechanic, Mr. Mészáros, earns every minute the net monthly salary of last year, or HUF 340 thousand per minute! - ; while the billions of public funds are pouring into Orbán's son-in-law, of course, tactfully hiding behind non-refundable subsidies; while the Orbán family, you know, people who, according to their own admissions, were never rich and who were not really interested in the money, so the Orbán family's wealth now officially exceeds 100 billion dollars, and who knows how much else is and how much else lies in the Lőrinc stromanok's cushioning house, which is also likely to be in their account sooner or later, compared to last year's otherwise outrageously low social subsidies, also taking into account the level of inflation in Orbán, will be cut by 38 percent in the Orbán budget. Here we go. [[19.50]] It's an inhuman and vile world's inhuman and vile budget. This is you, this is the reality of NER, this Hungarian obsession, this is the torment of the Hungarian poor. While the government, the friends, the holy family, in their agony, do not even know what they are throwing away all the wealth, the millions whose lives, futures have been ruined, lived up to, reprimanded, can no longer obtain basic social services next year, not even as much as they did this year, even though this year, they have received a hell of a lot of money. It is no longer the case that, for example, government promises regarding subsidised housing are being kept or not, or we are not talking about it anymore, because we cannot talk about it, because all statistics have taken out ever more severe child poverty, or that the government would fight against it in any way. There's no such thing. Compared to 2023, for example, social and welfare institutional services will be cut by roughly one billion, but even other social subsidies will be cut by HUF 751 million in the budget for next year, 2024. It's you! This is your world! Your budget is nothing more than the budget of depravity, the budget of inhumanity, a confession that shows that you see no further than your pockets or the tail of Viktor Orbán, and you have nothing but yourselves, and that is the worst thing. There's a lot I could talk about here. I've prescribed Debrecen here for me. Unfortunately, Congressman Pósán has left, he has said many things about Debrecen, or also Congressman Tasó. But they didn't tell us what the Orbán government had taken away from the Debrecen, only in the last week, as Debrecen was deeply affected by the 270 large investments that were taken. But that's where we are now. And I suppose you can feel it, even if you do not dare to say that the budget of 2024 before us is not only a budget of inhumanity, but also a budget of passing away. In fact, it's not a budget, as I said before, but an exitus of NER and the Orbán-smelling sire dictatorship. That's what we're seeing now, and that's what's gonna get you killed. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-06-14-140	Dear Parliament, We will continue our work with two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr Imre Pesti, Fidesz Group.
u2023-06-14-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr Varga's speech made me speak in two minutes. He considered the budget to be despicable and like Taigetos. Says a congressman whose party had removed 16,000 hospital beds, sent 6,000 people out of health care, took their 13th month salary, closed hospitals, closed the National Psychiatric Institute, where he sent people to the streets and wandered around the country, shut down Schöpf-Mere Hospital [[Kálmán Olga: It's not true! We should be telling the truth.]] and introduced... Congresswoman, please hear me out. , closed several hospitals, introduced the visit fee, resulting in statistically proven much fewer people being able to consult a doctor [[Kálmán Olga: Sure!]] and they were hospitalized in a much more serious state than before. [[Peter Cseresnyés: That's right!]] This was indeed a measure in Taigetos. [[Péter Kálmán Cseresnyés to Olga: Have you worked in reality? You sat on TV and watched the screen!]] If that's what the congressman meant, I agree with him. But if that's not what you meant, then... [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] I'm not very qualified for your comment because I'm bound by doctor-patient confidentiality. [[László Sebian-Petrovski: Oh, how beautiful you were!]] Thank you very much.
u2023-06-14-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Since no one has applied for another two-minute speech, I give the floor to Congressman Károly Kontra, Fidesz Group.
u2023-06-14-143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. The budget for 2024 is the budget for protection. We are living in a time of danger: a prolonged war in our immediate neighbourhood, a sanctions policy as a consequence of war, global economic difficulties, war inflation, energy and trade reorganization, an ever-increasing migratory pressure, together with the Balliberal approach of the Union's immigration regime which has developed in recent days. The economic crisis caused by war and the proposals that may become final, which weaken the current, stricter framework for EU border protection, which many Member States do not respect, can lead to further migratory flows towards Europe. Dear Parliament, There is a need to strengthen the defence, to develop forces, to protect the cost reduction, to protect the family support system and the pension system, and to protect jobs. Our internal security is guaranteed by law enforcement. Year after year, crime statistics, the prestige of police personnel and citizens' confidence are growing. We thank the police for their staff's service. The biggest challenge is border protection, in which Hungary can count only on itself in 2024. There is no progress in financing border protection costs in the EU, while Hungary has spent more than EUR 1.5 billion to build these capacities. We have repeatedly asked the Union to contribute to the costs of external border protection, but we have done this in vain. There's a noticeable increase in migratory pressure. As the EU's asylum reform accelerates, regulatory difficulties need to be prepared, which could lead to additional burden on the budget. The best response currently available is to strengthen border protection by developing a physical border barrier and creating border-hunting centuries within the Alert Police. The system works and the budget of 2024 provides the necessary resources for its operation. Dear Parliament, The entire budget of the law enforcement has been given special emphasis in the draft of the 24th. Law enforcement spending exceeds HUF 1300 billion, which is about HUF 860 billion compared to 2010, i.e. nearly three times the increase. In 2024 the government spent nearly HUF 1000 billion on the wages of law enforcement personnel, which is more than HUF 600 billion higher than in 2010, and 60 billion more than this year, in 2023. Since 2010, wages have increased nearly threefold in this important area. The budget appropriations of all central police bodies managed by the Ministry of Interior will be increased as proposed compared to the budget for 2023. The police, TEK and the National Defence Service work together as three pillars of law enforcement to strengthen order and public security. A total of HUF 517.5 billion is planned in the 2024 proposal, which exceeds the 2023 framework by HUF 100.5 billion. The police receive nearly HUF 95 billion in surplus, the budget of the TEK, the Counter-Terrorism Centre is expanding by HUF 4 billion, and the National Defence Service spending line is HUF 1.7 billion higher than in the previous year. Penalty execution will receive HUF 28 billion more according to the plan, and for HUF 87.5 billion a new prison with a capacity to accommodate 1,500 people will be built in Csengeren. For disaster protection, you will receive HUF 31 billion more, which will provide the full background of your duties in the protection of human life and values. The National Directorate-General for Foreign Police receives an additional HUF 1 billion. In 2024 special attention will be paid to making permit procedures more efficient, while at the same time increasing the proportion of digital administration that does not require personal appearance, which is expected to reduce both the workload and operating costs. Among the appropriations managed by the chapter, mention is the already mentioned investment in the execution of the sentence and the additional support of the National Civil Service Association of HUF 100 million. Looking at the appropriations, it can be seen that next year's budget has an important objective to ensure the proper functioning of law enforcement, thus ensuring the safety of Hungary and the Hungarian people. All appropriations which can contribute to the strengthening of public security, internal security, the strengthening of protection against international and domestic terrorism, the development of disaster protection or the improvement of the detection efficiency of small-scale crime and the improvement of the enforcement of sentences are adequately and stablely financed under the proposal. [[20.00]] Dear Parliament, On this basis, it can be concluded that there is a proposal before this House that does not lose sight of the challenges facing the country in the field of security in the coming year. In 2024 we will have a budget that takes into account the expected circumstances in which the Hungarian people live, trying to provide an adequate source of protection for our values and security. Now let me also say a few words about the investment in my constituency and in strengthening the security of the country; this is the defence industrial investment in Castle Palace. In 2021, the government decided that a State-owned joint venture would produce medium caliber ammunition in Várpalota. For this, the government has taken the necessary measures, designated the real estate, secured the source. The protection investments in Castle Palace were planned in the 2024 budget for HUF 95.7 billion. The government provides the additional resources necessary to develop the area of the Defence Industrial Park Complex in Várpalota for non-fence development, for public works, for the construction of the road network and for the implementation of other developments related to the municipality of Várpalota. The total resource requirement for the development is HUF 24.5 billion, which covers the period 2023-2026. In the planning of the budget for 2024 HUF 6.3 billion was planned for the year XVII. Department of Energy chapter. Dear Parliament, Thank you for your attention, and I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the defence budget for the safety of the Hungarian people and Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-14-144	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Sebian-Petrovski, from the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-06-14-145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We are discussing next year's budget in these days this is what we have here in a time frame, with particular attention, because we are talking about one of the most important laws, which basically underpins every year how the next year will be for Hungary. We all know that for decades, and it's natural to do so. It follows to me that this is a very well-founded, very well calculated, very well thought out, all-inclusive proposal, because if it is ruined, if it is not well founded, the national government has not thought through all the cornerstones of this, if it pleases, then there will be a great deal of trouble, and we all share that problem. So I expected such a bill from the government as a proposal for the annual budget. I was prepared to make it clear that there would be a lot of points that I am opposed to as opposition representatives, transfers, highlights in certain areas that I do not consider appropriate, but otherwise the law itself will be a well-founded, fairly assembled, risk-observing, caring, calculating proposal. [[The chair is occupied by Dóra Dúró, Vice-President of the Parliament.]] Compared to this, my ancestors have used up all the signs that can be used for this, a piece of work, a bill that is clearly not based on reality, not on what is clearly seen today. With a number of speeches before me, Mr Secretary of State has tried to say that this is the ninth draft budget law that we will adopt in summer and is due next year. As I understand it, this meant that they already had a lot of practice in designing and putting it together. However, I have to say the same thing as the opposition Members before me said that this year did not succeed. We've seen what happened in the last year's budget, we've seen what happened in the previous years, how many times we've had to modify it, how many times we've had to modify it with a government order, and how and how it had to be... You're shaking your head, Mr. Secretary. We've been sitting here. We've seen it. Now, I'm gonna tell you, just like my predecessors said, it's gonna be the same thing. A budget has been planned for funds that are wobbly. The ones that are wobbly in its basic numbers and in the reference points that determine it; from the euro exchange rate, we could list a lot here, and my fellow Members have also classified it. That's not what I'm going to talk about. I'm going to go to another aspect of this issue. Minister Mihály Varga in his expo also stated that this budget had planned EU funds to arrive in Hungary. This budget calculates as if there are no problems and problems with the arrival of EU funds in Hungary, as if everything was nice and good, as if we could forget the nightmare of the last year, which has been in the form of not having a penny of EU funding. By the way, this support would have been due to the Hungarian people, which was also calculated last year, and it seems to be counting again this year and counting for next year as well, only the political work that is necessary for these funds to actually arrive, this government has clearly not included in this process in recent months. You can say that Minister Navracsics also tells us every two weeks that these funds are almost here, they are already on their way, we have practically to receive them, but we are here that we have not seen a penny of this year. This can and should be discussed separately, but in the context of this law it should be noted that you are treating next year's budget as if it were a fixedly planned source of income. In particular, in the EU Development Budget chapter, the total development expenditure, if I read it correctly, will be HUF 3880 billion, approximately 90 percent, 3562 billion from EU sources, and a little over 300 billion from domestic sources. At the same time, on the revenue side, I see 392 billion as a fixed income coming in, which is all I want to see, and that is what I want to run for, that the budget is absolutely clear, even though it is building on EU grants and building on their full arrival, even though it is still expected that, in addition to domestic co-financing, the budget should be paid in advance for each development, so that these amounts should be pre-paid from domestic sources. If I read the numbers correctly, it would amount to 3488 billion forints. The point of this issue is that you have planned the arrival of EU funds in the budget, and you are counting on a full amount and a full framework as if next year the serious problem that you have created will be restored, let us not forget. You have produced it by building an autocracy for 13 years, evacuating democracy and turning Hungary into a country in which you steal EU funds and domestic funds. The Union was satisfied with this last summer and said that it was okay, then I will impose conditions for these EU grants to come. Since then, the government has apparently suffered to meet them somehow without having to break down its own NER system. Even though news comes that, for example, the government meets judicial needs, it is not really a decision either, although they like to treat it as there is. What we know today and that should have been taken into account in the planning of next year's budget is that this is a terrible shaky area, so far there is no decision in the Union to lift even part of the blockage, the blocking of EU funds that Hungary, the Hungarian government, has achieved with the effective work of the last 13 years. [[20.10]] So this is a serious problem, Mr. Secretary. Mihály Varga said that they don't have a plan B if the EU money doesn't come. I've planned a family budget, not a state budget. I would never dare to plan that I would say for an uncertain item, and when I am asked that and otherwise, if that uncertain item really remains uncertain and does not arrive, I would say that I have no answer, I have no solution. That's what you're saying, and that's what you're doing. In addition to EU funds, I have already mentioned another issue: let me talk about it a little bit more: this is that this particular EU punishment, if you like, for which the Union does not allow the money to come to the Hungarian people, is a significant part because you have dismantled the rule of law. You have turned Hungarian democracy into a system of authoritarianism, and therefore a large part of the expectations of Brussels represent expectations of the rule of law in relation to the administration of justice. Some of these were, by the way, accepted by Parliament according to your intentions; we also indicated that they would not be enough at all. But what can now be read from the budget is that the budget is being pulled hard right there, that is to say in the judiciary, there is a huge reduction in the operation of the courts, for example, where it would otherwise be important for it to work well and fairly, because the expected rule of law, not only in Brussels, but also in the state of law required by Hungarian citizens, is, for example, that the courts work well. I'll give you figures, because that's what you like, Secretary of State. While the budget fell to HUF 157.2 billion in the operation of the courts in 2023, this will be reduced to HUF 152.4 billion in the budget plan next year. If you look at the decrease as a sum, it's a 4.8 percent decrease. If you look at the share of the budget, it will decrease by about 3 percent within the budget, but in real terms it is more than 20 percent, so there is more than 20 percent less money for the operation of the courts. This obviously means that, in addition to the insanely high leadership and impact of inflation in Orbán in Europe, not only will the courts receive more resources for its operation, but less, and this problem has also been mentioned by the Budget Council, mentioned by you: specifically, he said that the other operating appropriations of the budget chapter of institutions not governed by the government are typically reduced by more than 10 per cent, which causes a significant decline in these institutions, not by me, but by the Fiscal Council, which you so much love, which may require either targeted savings or task-related measures, or without the risk of extra money from the government to preserve their functioning. What does that mean? This means that, thanks to this budget, the justice system will work either worse next year, the courts will work worse, or they will have to touch the reserve and replace it with the reserve next year. Obviously, you'll have to replace chapters and parts of the court system to your liking. The essence of this system is, therefore, that you have designed the budget on a shaky basis; you have planned EU revenue at 100%, there is no doubt in you that this is not coming, and I have not quoted any Plan B to the Minister what if this does not come. This is an insane risk in this case, and in particular, the amount of money that comes to justice in real terms is reduced by more than 20 percent, which means that this will be rescinded and cut off by the government with this budget proposal. Of course, the Democratic Coalition cannot support this. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2023-06-14-146	Again, I welcome my fellow Members. The debate will be continued with the speech of Mr Attila Gelencsér from the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2023-06-14-147	Dear House, Madam President! Thank you very much for the floor. I am honoured to be able to speak on the most important legislation of the year, the budget for the 24th. First of all, it is difficult for me to stop responding to two DK speeches in my time frame. One of them. Zoltán Varga was able to do the bravure by talking for 10 minutes about a budget full of numbers, a budget of billions, that he himself did not give an account. Markers, however, yes... [[Zoltán Varga: Well, you're wrong!]] Yeah, he said a few, maybe I heard a percentage twice. [[Zoltán Varga: I also said specific numbers!]] For the most part, inhuman, depraved, slutty, fascified. [[Zoltán Varga: Thank you very much! I'll pay you something...]] So maybe the congressman is in the wrong place, because maybe if he's talking about an artwork, we're using adjectives, we're talking about numbers and processes in a budget. [[Zoltán Varga intervenes.]] So, you were charming, Congressman, that's rhetorical performance. [[Zoltán Varga: Praise!]] And Congressman Sebian is nothing when he confronts us here with why EU funds are not coming, but I would like to talk about this later, while Csaba Molnár, your European representative, calls it his patriotic duty to stop the European resources that we have rightly had. [[Zoltán Varga: Do not steal! Kálmán Olga: Stealing should be...]] I didn't say anything about your comments. That's kind of a difference. Feel free to do so, because that's what the voters see, and they can make a difference. You know, it was just as hard for me to listen to you as it was for you, obviously, but I did it because I can control myself. I can't imagine what a government would look like with you who can't control themselves. So, after Csaba Molnár, you are free to hang EU funds for European forums out of patriotic duty and then come here and have the nerve to ask us why the funds are not coming. And I understand that you have various ideas for this, but they are again about denying reality, they have nothing to do with real processes, and they are just as unprofessional as Zoltán Varga's speech in 10 minutes without numbers. Congratulations. So, as an individual constituencies representative, I would like to comment on this budget by translating it into ordinary language, daily odds, difficulties. And let me begin by saying that Kaposvár is a military city; there are nearly a thousand soldiers and military families in Kaposvár who make a living by helping, supporting the government, or perhaps destroying it. One of your now-regulating congresswoman, who was, by the way, the Secretary of State for Defence during the Gyurcsány government, contributed to the total and total demise of military and defence in such a powerful way that everyone at the Füredi I barracks in Kaposvár was already wondering when they were going to close. And by the way, he still gave bread to a thousand people, and they did a job there with enormous knowledge and professionalism that soldiers do. Now, at that time, the buildings, the property stock, the purchase of technical equipment were not at all, and let's not talk about the wages of soldiers. Compared to this, the fact is that there is progress in all three, there was a battalion there earlier, and I was there, too, so I am attached to it, and now there is a logistics regiment, the fact is that both in the building stock and in the procurement of equipment and obviously in the wages of the soldiers, we have moved forward. Why was there and there a possibility, Honourable Left? Because next year, in 2024 there will be a 7-fold defence expenditure page or budget compared to 2010 when you handed it over; not double, not three-fold, but seven times. And by the way, this is happening, or has happened in your time, by the way, that it was known and visible to everyone that global crises were going to take place in the 21st century. to come in the century. [[20.20]] Known processes have taken place, so migration, which requires border protection, has arrived at Covid, where soldiers have also done a great deal for us, and not to mention now, when our neighbor is at war. So, as opposed to your former government, we'd rather thank you and support the soldiers sevenfold. Public security, police. This is interesting, because when I first received a mandate from the people of Kaposvár and Jelici, there were four thousand crimes in Kaposvár every year. We are talking about a rural Mediterranean city, where there is no reason for the city or the people living there to have such a high number of crimes: a quiet small town. Four thousand crimes have now been committed. Obviously, it took your government, but I'll keep it quiet that police, police, security were also underfunded in the time of Gyurcsány Bajnai. The 4,000 crimes we know last year's statistics are about a quarter to a fifth, down to a thousand crimes a year. How is that possible? The left could ask, of course, that is not what he is talking about, but rather uses indicators instead of figures in the budget debate, so that the police budget has tripled compared to your last government, and this means HUF 860 billion in this respect. Kaposvár, by the way, is a school town. Like a proper county seat, it has countless schools and high schools. Allow me to include a personal element here: I taught 16 academic years, including thanks to the Horn-Kuncze government, I became a politician, and I am interested in the discussion, demonstrations and opposition opinions around teachers and schools, because of the amazing processes in education. I, who come from this world, don't remember having this company under left-wing government, getting this case, this profession, our children, anything good. We suffered so much in my teacher's time that I actually thought that I needed to move forward on the political path [[Zoltán Varga: We made it...]] so I can help ourselves. And then, six months after the election of Gyurcsány, I became President of the county government, President of the county assembly in Somogy, when I was forced to suffer the institution funding that you were kind enough to do at the time. Zoltán Varga, because he is still here, I cannot say to Mr Sebian, because he is no longer here, but thank you very much to the left-wing Members present, that I can tell you and remind you that when we are accused of educational matters here, I do not remember exactly, but I have been given a mandate to maintain nearly fifty institutions from the Somogyi, and imagine that the normative that Ferenc Gyurcsány provided to the institutions was enough for half the necessary expenditure. [[Kálmán Olga: And now?]] Compared to this, the other leg of our income, which was then the tax revenue of the county municipality, was taken away by Ferenc Gyurcsány. After that, the left-wing Balliberal Government announced from the counties that they were inoperative, unfit to perform the tasks, and that was when we went out of the bond issue, more commonly, more generally: towards the loans, it led us there. And in comparison, I am interested in hearing both their slanders, their accusations about education funding and their accusations about making municipalities impossible. I don't know what it would be... How is all of this possible now, when, in particular, there is HUF 2,000 billion more in this sector than in your last year of government? So, so much for schools. Kaposvár also has a center of gravity hospital, where two thousand people work, hundreds of doctors do their healing work every day, and we are very proud of them, and we are very grateful to them. This area also receives more than HUF 2,000 billion in the next year than in 2010. They've been through a significant increase in the doctor's wages, and now we're preparing to raise another laborer's salary. By the way, this is obviously not included in next year's budget, we are over it: Kaposi Mór County Training Hospital was renewed from HUF 30 billion. It would be very interesting for you to come down to Kaposvár and tell us your analysis of the deteriorating health situation, when there is a beautiful new hospital on top of which the helicopter lands with the most modern devices and diagnostics. [[Kálmán Olga: Is there a doctor?]] And a doctor, yes, we have a lot of doctors. Tomorrow we will be very fond of Mrs Kálmán Olga, speaking at an acute stroke conference, and just toasting at a scientific conference where the country's visitors will report on the results of the past ten years in Kaposvár. You don't think there's a doctor [[Kálmán Olga: Do you think there is?]] Well, come on, we'll start tomorrow at 11:00, and we'll welcome you to the 4th floor of Kaposvár Hospital. The next point is that 18,000 pensioners live in my constituency, Kaposvár and Zselic, including my father, who is retired, and I can tell you that in 2010 the average pension was 85 thousand forints. Well, I don't know what Zoltán Varga said, inhuman, mean, arrogant? [[Zoltán Varga: Taigetus.]] So this is what the 2010 pension looked like, that it was inhuman and mean, well, that really didn't make a living. Before the 13th month's pension, we have already achieved it, and obviously in several places or almost everywhere in the country, there has been a double increase in pensions. [[Zoltán Varga: Are pensions twice in Kaposvár?]] I'll tell you because apparently [[Zoltán Varga: How did this happen?]] Yes, there are numbers where the Statistical Office shows the level of pensions in one city. [[Kálmán Olga: Are pensions twice in Kaposvár?]] But Zoltán Varga can't behave the same way, I'm happy for him, because the voters see over and over again that you can't control yourself, and I'm very happy about it, because Zoltán Varga and Olga Kálmán's comments show that what I'm saying hurts. Now, if you guys would listen, I'd feel bad about what I'm saying, which means I'm not interested in what I'm saying, but I think you're very interested in it, so I'm still giving you the gas. [[Kálmán Olga: Interesting, but not telling the truth.]] The fact is, how is it possible to give 13 months' pensions and double pensions? I'll tell you: 2747 billion was the pension fund in 2010, and now 6010. It's as simple as that. It's not so complicated, we have to take pity on ourselves, we have to acknowledge that as we take care of them, we are also setting an example for our children of honesty and perseverance. I'm afraid you didn't make it. Let's move on: economics and jobs here have been expressed a number of terms or speeches about this. Let me tell you something interesting here too. This bad economic policy, which you have described, and the opening of the East, which you are constantly cursing, is the fact that in 2010 four thousand people in Kaposvár and Jell-O were looking for jobs and their lives were completely hopeless. It's about a thousand, wavy, but it's down to a thousand somewhere. I would like to say that we knew exactly what we needed to have jobs, we also knew what we needed to have higher wages, we knew that we had to do road 67, we knew that we had to build an industrial, business environment, industrial parks, and we had to pursue an investment-enhancing policy and external economic policy. Everybody knew that. The people of Kaposvár, the common people, knew it. István Kolber was now called the Minister of Development compared to this, and an excellent DK politician today, the Kaposvár people are ashamed that he could be a minister, but the point is that during the time of István Kolber, there was no road 67 built. In fact, what I am hearing from you in this House is that when an investor arrives and receives government support, which is just a fraction of his investment value, you regret it, and you think it's a wrong move. [[20.30]] I would like to say that we do not regret this, and thank you very much for the fact that the Turkish glass factory has received state aid and we have been able to create an industrial environment for it, and the Chinese investor announced two weeks ago, which will produce hydraulics in Kaposvár and will give work to 200 people. We are happy about these, and this budget will ensure that. EU funds. As I understand it, this is the area of expertise of Congressman Sebian, or at least that's the kind of expert you've just shown yourself here. Here I would like to bring in a context before this House, which I have not heard very much about our side, that it has been said, that I may not have been here at that meeting, and that is the next one. I was lucky to apply for European funds as county general meeting president for the first full planning and budget cycle. This period 2006-2010, when you are taking place, I think it is the seven-year cycle of the EU called the National Development Plan. I was faced with it myself, because what we have here is that once a year we meet with the 246 mayors, we go away for days, and we call performers, including members of the government, and that's when we invited István Kolber, unfortunately, and we expect them to set a course. The thing is, we would have expected it, because there was a rumble in the national development plan, we were waiting for the resources, Olga Kálmán and Zoltán Varga, which you are now taking account of, we were expecting, because here is the National Development Plan, there is no global conflicts, there is no migration, there is no war, there is no Covid, there is nothing, there is no reason why EU funds are not coming. I would like to inform you that we are now, in 2023, at about the same or exactly the same period of this seven-year European planning budget cycle as we were in 2010, when you were replaced by voters, and, if I remember correctly, perhaps around 3-4 percent of the payments were made during a period where no global crisis could disturb the payment of EU funds. I'd like to tell you what happened: you don't know how to do it. The same way Zoltán Varga doesn't know how to budget, says signs and doesn't say numbers. At that time, there was nothing to prevent EU funds from being brought here and paid. As County General Assembly President, I couldn't bring a source of your national development plan to Somogy, and when the 245 mayors looked at your calls, they didn't find themselves in it, they were written out for the wrong reasons, it was impossible to win them, and then it was extremely impossible to implement them. That's why it's all popped in one place. What I do not understand is why you are saying today that you would give direct resources to the municipalities, while we are at it, dear Congressman Sebian. First of all, that's impossible. I don't know why you have to lie to voters. [[Zoltán Varga: We ask the same question! Kálmán Olga: I wish you'd stop!]] They and you know very well that there is no such thing in the EU system, that total cohesion funds are given directly. But there was a way for you to do that, they had a national development plan. Well, why didn't they just give it to me? Do you know what's going on? They didn't give it to me directly or indirectly, because they didn't give it to me in any way, and now they're trying to campaign by saying that if you were on the government, you'd get it on purpose, and you're working on it now, or that's why you're working in Brussels. Well, it's kind of like these adjectives, the adjectives Zoltán Varga just said here. Obviously, anyone who says such things either doesn't know how to do it or looks down on voters or both at the same time, and thinks that voters don't know how to allocate such complex European resources, so it's safe to say something to them that everyone knows isn't true, who knows a little bit about it. If I were you, I'd stop doing that, because you always catch up to a liar first, so I think it's pointless, but you know that's your policy. So, closing point: you can't always do what you have to do, but you always have to do what you can. This budget can't do everything it's supposed to, but it's doing everything it can. I'm honored by your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-06-14-148	The next speaker is Mrs Andrea Hegedüs, from the DK faction. I give you the floor, please.
u2023-06-14-149	Thank you very much. Madam President, Dear Parliament, The country is in trouble, so is my city, Miskolc, because it is gradually and methodically looted by the government. We're facing an alarming rate of poverty, budget failure. More and more taxes are being imposed on bank savings. Hungarian inflation is a European record, and pay is less and less valuable. Almost all basic food prices have doubled. There is no such thing in neighbouring countries. This is proof that this inflation in Orbán, or even the little food, is already at the throat of Hungarians, because Fidesz also has to swallow the European championship's price increase along with the bite. Power eliminates the local government. There's no help, of course. Instead, there's more and more withdrawal. Miskolc inherited heavy debts, unbalanced accounts from the Fidesz city administration. Long-term loans, increasing debt to MVK Zrt. towards it. Over-planned revenues, under-planned expenses. Therefore, the financial room for manoeuvre is very small. But Miskolc doesn't forget, he doesn't forget how much loss of income he's suffered from the withdrawal of the car tax, the suspension of the collection of the tourist tax, the loss of parking revenue. The city's solidarity contribution has increased from HUF 1.3 billion to HUF 3.6 billion. The solidarity contribution system must be radically transformed and transparent. It takes a predictable and responsible public engagement to ensure the provision of public services in order to achieve the renovation of kindergartens, crèches, social institutions and energy modernisation. The condition of the equilibrium budget, you know, is that the revenue side and the expenditure side must be the same, which is required by the law in force, at least for now. Everyone knows the state doesn't have any money, it's being paid by private individuals and companies into the state register. The government, on the other hand, is mismanagement because it does not spend it on municipalities, education and not on health care. Miskolc paid 300 billion forints into the state register, of which the municipality received only 17 billion. It is a requirement that the state distributes the money collected fairly. It would cost at least 50 billion forints in the city so that it could perform the public tasks safely. The government should not stop at the shore with a stopwatching the drowning local governments for how much longer they can hold their breath, but should quickly throw a lifeline or jump into the water and save them! Miskolc, therefore, is experiencing the crisis in close proximity. On the main street of Széchenyi, in the small shops in the suburbs, in the iron factory market, from Zsarna, Hejőcsaba to the St. Petersburg gate, from Lillafüred to Selemrét, the following goes back: there is no fidesz representation of Miskolc in the house of the country. DK is present in every part of the city every week. We hear what people say, we are available, so I interpret what they have heard: Please tell here in the Parliament the. semhallsela, 135 fidesz, who are forging their empire from our paid taxes to include the following in the budget. They touched the Castle of Diósgyőr, our historic treasure, misguided, recklessly. Every Miskolc's heart aches at the sight of the castle. During the reconstruction, it was discovered that they were unable to strengthen the castle towers and created a torso. 2 billion are lacking in stability, and this needs to be included in the budget. A lot of concrete from the Ellipsum experience spa in Tapolca was closed a few months after the visual transmission, and the municipality was forced to rebuild it. After the job, you guys took off, left him in town to solve the problem. Of course, the city needs money, the city needs money for the operation of the bath instrument. This must also be included in the budget. [[20.40]] Why did the Y Bridge have to make sense of turbo-circle traffic, by the way, by the way, rust already eats the cabling buoys? How good would that few billion have been for the energy renovation of the Kazinczy Ferenc Primary School! Speaking of which, the teacher of Miskolc, who has already deposited his resignation, from the introduction of the Vengeance Act, sends a message that the minimum salary increase of 45% is expected in all parts of the country. The elected two Fidesz Members of Parliament, Katalin Csöbör and János Kiss, and Zsolt Kovács, who is a surrannó rink and invisible, are asked to lobby the budget for the renewal of the road section between Martinkertváros-Szirma, which destroys cars, because they have already done half-work in this part of town again. The Diósgyőrians, the Győr Gates, the Kilians, the Bulgarians, are impatiently awaiting and watching for the inclusion of a shopping centre among the budget lines of the stadium, the construction of which was guaranteed by János Kiss at the time of the elections, but no news, no ashes. What kind of government wants to strengthen its position at the expense of quality of life with meaningless luxury investments, while underfunded and high energy prices have led to a difficult situation for MIVÍZ. I quote from the company's employee:. The water service provider's wallet is empty due to the reduction of the rent, and can't raise any fees. Costs are rising, revenues are falling. Instead of nationalisation, public financial compensation is required. The capital replacement will be covered by the Retirement Fund and tax exemptions granted to the water utility provider. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Miskolc's water and sewage system has grown old, clean drinking water and sewage have been leaking into the soil for weeks. Make sure you have enough resources to refurbish the network. While some fidesters use water only for yachting, or see it flow through sewer pipes, the plan to renovate our water base sleeps in a bedside manner. The budget lacks support for house and house renovations. It appears that the Panel Programme Plus is exclusively part of the DK's shadow government's program. We are calling for a five-year renovation programme with half a million panel apartments and a million other types of condominiums and family houses to be modernised without any extra support from the European Union. Miskolc's housing stock is particularly affected by 69 thousand dwellings. Refurbished until 2010, teleheaters have been reduced, but those living in flats without individual measurements on energy renovations are at risk. The Orbán government has made the panel program impossible, and the Fidesz city administration has followed it. However, it supported failure investments, such as the reconstruction of the Castle of Diósgyőr. A passerby from Miskolc said that the Christian government of Fidesz had learned one thing: everything for the eyes, more for the hands. In the area of panel renovations, Miskolc is in the twenty-fourth hour. Among the investments that have been stopped, please take out the development of the road connecting Miskolc with the Bükkszentkereszt, this section of the road must be built! Why don't you finally understand how to work for us, how to ask us if it's about us, our town? He's sick of Miskolc deciding over his head, socializing afterwards, not consulting. It is not true that there is no money when 660 billion is wasted on Vodafone, 204 billion on athletics or Lebanese temples. There's money for everything but the lives of the people of Miskolc. This budget is meaningless even at the moment of its adoption, it is not suitable for the orientation of entrepreneurs and investors, it erodes confidence in the state. In difficult times, serious people are needed. So there is no war and penalty inflation, there is only inflation in Orbán, and only here in Hungary. In the meantime, however, the shadow government led by Dobrev Klára will do everything possible, and the alternative budget of the shadow government is ready, and you should read it. Only a social democrat, disciplined, controlling alternative can make us a country of wage and pension increases instead of a country of price increases. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2023-06-14-150	We will now continue the debate with two-minute speeches. In the framework of this, Mr Zoltán Varga, from the DK faction, will follow. Here you go.
u2023-06-14-151	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear House, Dear Congressman Gelencsér, The truth is, you've made our evening look great, and it's been really nice listening to you. I thought of two things while I was listening to you mouth-to-mouth. One of them is the other band. You know, he's got this known evergreen thing that my doorknob dragged him around screaming, doing it right, just the other way around. He said my name 27 times, and Gyurcsány didn't say it once. I think the faction office told you the exact opposite. You're gonna have to take care of that when you go back, because you've really messed up this story. [[Defiance.]] The other one. My grandfather told me he was always dead, he was a brilliant man, he was a brilliant man, he was the little man, too bad he didn't know you, because I think he could have talked about you long enough, that my boy, he always smells of self-gratitude, he's got a flat tire. You talked about me. I, I swear, I'd keep it quiet till the end of the day, but I don't think that's the point of tonight. So I'm happy to hear what other great things you've done, how you've cut the dragon's head off, I don't know, but it might be in the budget debate, and I've said a few numbers, although in social institutional support, you probably were polishing your résumé at the time, and that's why you couldn't listen properly, and that's why you couldn't hear it, but don't give a damn about it. However, there is one thing I would like to correct in any way. You said that Csaba Molnár felt it was his patriotic duty to fight so that we would not receive funds from the European Union. No, not only Csaba Molnár, but the Democratic Coalition feels it is their patriotic duty not to steal. 'Cause they can steal from their own pockets to another, but stealing the country 13 years in the business, that's it. We're gonna end this. Then you can nod after him. Thank you very much. [[A voice from DK's ranks: That's right! Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2023-06-14-152	We will return to the speakers that have been announced. In the framework of this, Mrs Csöbör, from the Fidesz faction, will be Mrs Csöbör. Here you go.
u2023-06-14-153	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, In recent years, there has been a crisis. First there was the immigration crisis, then there was the corona virus, and now the prolonged war. And if that wasn't enough in itself, on top of that, the failed sanctions in Brussels. We deal with these crises all the time, and I come from Miskolc, and it's scary to think about what would have been or what would have happened if any of these had meant that the left was on the government, like in Miskolc, that they couldn't develop the city. In recent years, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade has taken a thorough part in the resolution and management of these crises and is now taking a lion's share in protecting jobs and guaranteeing energy security, and it is therefore appropriate to take a few minutes to examine the budget of the portfolio. The Ministry's wide range of tasks includes, inter alia, investment and export promotion, economic development for national policy purposes, international aid and energy import, but let me talk about classical diplomatic tasks in the first place. This is all the more justified, because the largest item in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade budget is, of course, the operation of diplomatic and consular networks at foreign representations, for which approximately HUF 117 billion is available next year, almost 14 billion more than this year. This surplus will amount to HUF 3.1 billion for the renovation of one property in Warsaw, 2.1 billion for the renovation of one in Brussels, and 1.7 billion for the opening of three new foreign representations in Osaka, Vientian and Kinshasa. The Ministry's central administration, operation, operation, implementation of domestic professional programmes, temporary foreign missions will be available in 2024 with HUF 2.3 billion more than this year. [[20.50]] This surplus is largely used to cover the cost increase resulting from the implementation of the.Hungary Helps.The two new blocks of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant are designed, built and installed. As regards the content of foreign policy, continuing a high level of mutual respect dialogue with European partners and further strengthening cooperation, particularly in the fields of economy, energy, defence policy and migration, is a priority. The portfolio prioritises the strengthening of North-South political and economic relations in Central Europe, the coordination and strengthening of V4 relevant activities, joint projects at government level. It is also a priority for the Euroatlantic integration of the Western Balkans and its representation in international organisations and fora, as it is a fundamental interest for security, economic and national policy purposes as a basis for stability in the region. In order to protect our interests, we must also find in European forums the partners we agree with in matters of particular importance to us. We are still interested in strengthening our relations with the United States. Even if at present this is only possible on a pragmatic basis, we have an important interest in further strengthening security policy and economic cooperation. In the spirit of the Eastern opening policy, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade continues to pay particular attention to the countries of Central Asia and the South Caucasus. Our growing participation in the Turks' Organization is a priority, given that international changes following the Russian-Ukrainian war have significantly assessed the geopolitical importance of the region. The Ministry pays particular attention to the development of relations that have gained particular importance for the energy supply of our country as a result of the Russian-Ukrainian war. Hungary's energy security in the new situation cannot be guaranteed without the Turkic states, and cooperation with them, which is of strategic importance, will also make a major contribution to sustaining our economic growth. From the point of view of Hungarian external relations, the Indian and Pacific regions are one of the most important and dynamically developing regions. Our country is committed to strengthening relations with the countries of the region along the lines of mutual respect and common interest. For the leading states in the region, attracting new investments of high added value to Hungary is an ongoing task. In relation to the countries of Southeast Asia, increasing Hungarian exports remains the priority, taking advantage of the links already established in the fields of food industry, agricultural innovation, water management and new opportunities. It remains important to deepen our ever-increasing cooperation with Israel and the Arab States. In the sub-Saharan region, we are working to strengthen mutually beneficial economic cooperation, building on our significantly enlarged foreign representation network. Our aim in Latin America is to consolidate our presence and deepen cooperation, particularly in the areas of education and technology and knowledge transfer. As far as multilateral diplomacy is concerned, the United Nations is its main forum, which, as a global organisation, offers us the opportunity to represent our national position on matters that are important to us, to increase our visibility, recognition and to enforce Hungarian foreign policy and external economic interests by taking consistent action. Hungary has played a key role in the development of a sustainable development framework, and we remain committed to its implementation. In addition to national efforts, our country plays an active role in all relevant international organisations, including the European Union, the UN, the OSCE, the Council of Europe or NATO. I also consider their parliamentary dimension to be important, which is why I am also a member of the OSCE, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The special area of diplomacy is cultural and sports diplomacy. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, in close cooperation with the Liszt Institutes managed by the Ministry of Culture and Innovation through its network of foreign representations, contributes to the formation of diverse programmes in the field of culture and science diplomacy. The presentation of the results of Hungarian culture, science and innovation strengthens the positive perception of Hungary among the decision-makers and opinion-makers of the host country, thus contributing directly to the achievement of our foreign policy and external economic goals. The portfolio also supports the presentation of the educational and cultural values of Hungarians through Hungarian courses at foreign universities, in particular the dissemination and promotion of Hungarian language and literature abroad. Sport diplomacy plays an important role in the promotion of domestic sport and thus the country abroad, in the development and visualization of the country's best possible image. With the help of our sports diplomacy projects, our foreign representations, we promote Hungarian-developed sports innovations, presenting them in many parts of the world; we present Hungary's extremely rich sports history and Hungarian intellectual capital related to sports. Several of the Ministry's projects serve to address Hungarians across the border through sport, to build a relationship, thus strengthening Hungarian identity. The flagship of the soft diplomacy tool system is the Stipendium Hungaricum Excellence Scholarship Programme, which promotes internationalization of Hungarian higher education, the dissemination of Hungarian language and culture, the promotion of student mobility and the long-term social and economic strengthening of foreign states, as well as the economic recovery at local and national level, and plays an important role in the development and catching up of rural universities and their region. The programme launched in 2022 allows hundreds of students of other nationalities from Ukraine and Ukraine to continue their studies in Hungary, who were forced to flee from Ukraine as a result of the war. Within the framework of the Diaspora Higher Education Scholarship Programme, we support higher education studies in Hungary of young people living in diaspora with Hungarian roots, while through the Balassi training programmes, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade offers diverse training opportunities to Hungarian and non-Hungarian foreign and foreign Hungarian young people interested in Hungarian language and culture. The last element of the training portfolio is the Hungarian Diplomacy Academy, which helps the establishment and maintenance of even more prepared Hungarian external and external personnel in 2024. These scholarship and training programs will receive just as much as 42 billion forints this year. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to say a few words about the national policy area as well. Economic, legal and diplomatic instruments complement each other in the portfolio's activities. As far as economic instruments are concerned, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade helps to improve the living conditions of Hungarians living in neighbouring countries, including through targeted economic and infrastructure development support, comprehensive cross-border economic development programmes, increasing the competitiveness of the region through cross-border investments and development of Hungarian businesses, promoting the sustainability of developments, and supporting the economic preservation of Hungarian populated areas. The Hungarian companies, which are gradually participating in the development of the programmes, will continue to support the development of Hungarian exports. For national policy purposes, including cross-border economic development programmes, Csángó magyar co-operation programmes, Diaspora higher education scholarship programme and support for European territorial associations, the Ministry will spend a total of HUF 4.7 billion next year. [[21.00]] In addition to economic preservation, it is equally important for Hungarian communities living in neighbouring countries to have a European legal environment for national minorities in that State. With neighbouring countries, we have established intergovernmental minority groups in the Treaties to protect and support our national minorities. In the area of minorities, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade is responsible for promoting the inclusion of national minorities within the framework of the UN, the Council of Europe, the OSCE, the European Union and even NATO. The situation of Hungarian national minorities in each neighbouring country shows a very different picture. We have several neighbours where the situation is exemplary, where European standards are fully respected, but unfortunately, we also need to establish that there is also a country that has been systematically destroying the rights of Hungarian national minorities for years, which is difficult to interpret in a different way than an attempt to eradicate and drive away the Hungarian community. External economic activity, based on two pillars, investment and export promotion, is of paramount importance in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. The primary objective of the aid from the investment promotion target is to facilitate the implementation in Hungary of investments of key national importance in terms of capital inflows. It also includes the "Production Savings" programme, which is used to improve the energy efficiency of large companies and to improve their energy self-sufficiency capacity. For investment promotion next year, the amount will be substantially the same as this year: 127 billion forints. The Ministry helps to strengthen the Hungarian export activity by coordinating government programmes that encourage Hungarian companies to access foreign markets, implementing the tied aid loan concept, and increasing the foreign market competitiveness of domestic companies, as well as through their own trade development programmes. The primary framework for the review and development of bilateral economic relations is that of the Economic Joint Committees, and it is of particular interest that they operate effectively and effectively, as this form of cooperation also contributes to the emergence of Hungarian companies on foreign markets and to the development of bilateral economic relations. Ladies and gentlemen, Our security must be strengthened not only because of the war, but also because of the migration that threatens Hungary's borders. The economic crisis caused by the war can trigger further waves of migration towards Europe, and Brussels has not stopped to install tens of thousands of migrants in Hungary. The fundamental pillar of our country's migration policy is the need to bring the help and the solution where the problem has arisen. Help must be brought there, not the problem brought here. Migration must be stopped and not managed, the best way of doing so is to improve the conditions in the countries of origin. International development cooperation contributes to reducing poverty and inequality in the world, but is also an important external economic instrument. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade provides support for our country's priority partner countries, notably Egypt, Jordan and Lebanon, in order to strengthen our economic relations. The flagship of the Hungarian International Aid Programme, Hungary Helps, aims to alleviate the international migratory pressure on Europe and strengthen Hungary's international engagement and partnerships through humanitarian aid. The aim of the programme is to provide immediate support to people and communities in areas of need, persecution or humanitarian disasters, in order to help them stay in place, to carry out supportive projects to protect free religious practice, in particular with regard to the preservation of the value of persecuted Christian and other religious minorities and vulnerable communities. Hungary Helps also provides an opportunity to conduct higher education studies in Hungarian training places for Christian youths between 18 and 30 years of age who are subject to religious persecution or threats in their own country. Dear House, The war and the failed Brussels sanctions policy have led to a significant increase in energy prices across Europe. The Hungarian families pay the lowest energy prices in the European Union, even in the face of rising energy prices with sanctions, thanks to the measures that have been maintained since 2013. Own generation of electricity is a key issue for keeping energy prices in check and maintaining energy security, in which the new blocks of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant will play a key role. The rational coordination of security and climate policy aspects of energy supply, the presentation of Hungarian interests in international negotiations, and their support through professional diplomacy are a government priority. The construction of two new blocks of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant serves the strategic interests of Hungary's national security and national economy, and nuclear power is the most sustainable, predictable and cheapest energy source. The recent energy situation highlighted the importance of investment in Paks. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade shall be responsible for the professional management and professional coordination of the implementation of the operating and maintenance assistance agreements on the design, procurement and execution of the two new blocks. One of the priority objectives of the portfolio is to allow the two new Paks nuclear power stations to start commercial operations as soon as possible in full compliance with nuclear safety standards. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, let me address an area that may be less spotlighted in the current situation, but it is crucial for the future in terms of technology and knowledge transfer, and this is the Hungarian space industry. Three years ago, the government classified it as part of the economic defence action plan and declared the development of the Hungarian space industry as a priority, and from then on it has given priority to the creation of domestic space capacity. The government's intention is to further develop the sector, significantly increase skills and make it decisive at regional level. The main goal is to further develop the Hungarian space industry building on Hungarian space research results, to increase its international recognition and connectivity system and to integrate it into the international space value chain. The implementation of the Hungarian research spaceship project HUNOR continues. The four candidates have already been selected. The creation of sovereign national space capabilities as soon as possible with the largest possible Hungarian space industry participation and delivery is in Hungary's fundamental security policy interest. As Minister for Foreign Affairs Orsolya Ferencz has done an excellent job in this area, I am particularly pleased that this week our Fidesz faction has enriched with another talented female politician. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2023-06-14-154	State Secretary Miklós Dukai asked for the floor, so he's next. Here you go.
u2023-06-14-155	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Madam President, Dear House, I asked for the floor because several of the representatives of DK and other representatives were dealing with municipal issues, and in the speeches the representatives of DK mostly spoke only about untruths, misinformations and slippages, and I would like to put this right a little bit. [[21.10]] I think we should start with the situation of the municipalities by 2010 with the measures taken by left-wing governments between 2002 and 2010. Local governments were in a situation where the governments of the time decided to fill the municipalities with tasks and, compared to that, to draw funds in the sector. I think it is in addition to the debate that, by 2010, the relocation of tasks and the withdrawal of funds had caused 2000 billion minuses in the municipal sector, which is why, after 2010, the measures had to start with the consolidation of the municipal sector, the government had to take over 1368 billion forints of debt from the municipalities in order to be able to perform their operations in a stable way and to perform their basic tasks or mandatory tasks at all. DK representatives say to the government that we are robbing the municipalities, or that we are throwing the municipalities to nothing. Well, about the looting, it's just that they cut the municipalities short by at least 2,000 billion forints. This is why it was necessary to create a new municipal law in 2011, to redefine tasks between the State and the municipalities, and to take on tasks that were difficult and easier to solve at the state level from the municipalities. This was, by the way, health and education, both of which are in much better hands on the side of the state than on the part of the municipalities. Then the DK representative, Andrea Hegedüs, said that we would liquidate the municipalities and eliminate the local government in Hungary. I see that the municipalities live and thrive in Hungary today. They carry out the tasks imposed on them by the various sectoral laws, and the budgetary law provides them with the resources from which they can operate in a calm and stable manner through task financing. The sources added to this, because it is also important to clarify this, because we will always be charged with constantly charging local governments with separate taxes, and then on the other hand, opposition representatives say that we are taking away the taxes that belong to the municipalities. Please respectfully, it must be clarified, on the one hand, that there are local taxes in the tax system and that there are central taxes. The car tax was never a local tax. It was always a central tax, whenever in this period after 90, only the National Assembly decided in the various fiscal laws and tax laws that certain parts of it were or were not entitled to the local governments. [[László Varju: Secretary of State, then personal income tax returns!]] That's exactly what personal income tax was. There were times when local governments were given a task. However, at the time of Covid, for example, the government asked the municipalities for solidarity so that the tax on cars could be fully taxed into the central budget and not be affected by any part of this tax. This was indeed part of solidarity, because the car tax was paid to all municipalities. At the same time, it should be added that not only the tax is now being entered into the central budget, but the part of the tax administration has also been transferred from the municipalities to the side of the state. The National Tax and Customs Office is responsible for the entire tax administration of this tax type. This task is not the responsibility of the municipalities. Then local taxes are part of the local business tax. This has already been said in this House, but I must repeat this because opposition representatives do not argue with us, but simply ignore the facts. If we look at, let's say, the last few years, what went into the municipal sector from local business tax, for example, we see that in 2020 703 billion had been paid only from business tax, then in 2021 it was 754 billion, then in 2022 it was 890 billion forints, to which the 70 billion was added in scale, which was due to the municipalities, and the government made a separate decision when we asked the municipalities to collect 1 percent, the rest could remain in small and medium-sized enterprises, but the government gave this to the municipalities. Our expectation for this year means that the business tax that could come in this year from local governments will be HUF 1149 billion. [[László Varju: 330 will be withdrawn!]] Indeed, there is also a solidarity tax, as Congressman Varju has said in his intervention to me, but I will deal with that in a separate way. In the draft budget of 2024 the government expects that this local business tax of 1149 billion will continue to increase to HUF 1337 billion. I feel that this does not rob the municipalities, but rather the economic policy that this government has been pursuing since 2010, which creates jobs, encourages investment, and we are bringing investment into the territory of municipalities from which the municipalities can enrich themselves. Indeed, the contribution of the solidarity tax will increase from this year to next year, but compared to that, the increase of HUF 70 billion from this year's local business tax will increase by HUF 170 billion by the municipalities, and compared to this year, the budget of 2023 will increase by HUF IX. Nearly HUF 80 billion is the increase of the budget bill in 2024. The municipality shall be entitled to the principal amount of Chapter 3 of this Official Journal. Another topic that DK MEPs, left-wing representatives, like to say is that we are insensitive in the social field. I would just like to take an example to the honourable Members and gentlemen of the system of eating children. Last year, it looked like we started the year from HUF 89 billion. Then, with the first measure, when the surplus resulting from the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed wage was received by the municipalities, we gave the part per child meal to the municipalities with a separate decision, on the one hand. Two. The Budgetary Act contains a section called resignation in May and October, and we are doing a bit of work on a replacement, but I think it is worth going into this, so it is possible to resign in May and October for municipalities to correct the budget's resources with their own numbers. With these two decisions, we added more money to the municipalities, plus at the end of the year we provided another financial assistance to the municipalities. That is how we got to the end of last year, from 89 billion to nearly 104 billion for children's meals. It's a significant increase. That's our starting number. This year looks the same. As early as this year, the government provided the surplus resulting from the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, the May additional requirements will be processed by mid-June, and in June we will pay the local authorities the resulting surpluses, and then we will reach October, and next year's budget is planned to make a separate decision if there is an increase in the minimum wage and a guaranteed minimum wage. But to go further and prove how good or bad the left-wing city councils are on the front of the municipalities, there is no better proof of what Congressman Péter Cseresnyés said perhaps an hour and a half ago. In connection with Nagykanizsa, we provided the city with HUF 588 million, HUF 588 million, precisely to compensate for the business tax lost in Covid. The city has written to us many times, under the pressure of left-wing representatives there, that they would like to spend this money in this way and so. Now we are talking about the fact that the use of this money will expire on 31 December of this year, and the city of this money is nearly 600 million forints, and there are a number of things listed on what they would like to do with a spoonful of iron that they have not yet spent, and it is most likely that if this attitude of the settlement, they will not be able to spend this money. So you can't say to the government that we don't want to help the municipalities. This government doesn't want to bleed out the municipalities at all. And then I'd like to mention one more important thing to you, because I don't think it's possible to go. Last year, when everyone saw, starting in the middle of the year, how the various overhead costs, i.e. the price of electricity, the price of gas, the government made a separate decision and set up a separate negotiating delegation to coordinate with the municipalities what difficulties the local authorities face in the price of rising electricity and gas energy. [[21.20]] A detailed negotiating line was carried out by the government during the September-October-November period last year, and the decision was made to decide that the government decided to provide additional support to municipalities below 10,000 and above ten thousand due to the increase in overhead costs. Overall, this year represents an additional HUF 77 billion of funding for municipalities in five areas that affect all municipalities: this affects the maintenance of nursery schools, affects the maintenance of kindergartens, affects public lighting, public catering and affects those social specialized institutions which are a child-inhabiting institution, an institution of the elderly, which is considered and held by the government to be of high social interest. So much for the social sensitivity you're asking us to be. And just one more thought about how much next year's budget will contain when energy prices are re-acquired: HUF 83 billion is set in the draft budget for next year so that the government may still be able to provide support to local governments to increase energy prices. Thank you very much. That's all I wanted to say. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-14-156	We will return to the list of speakers that have been announced, and in this context, it will be Mr Pesti Imre, from the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2023-06-14-157	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Dear House, According to the Hungarian Fundamental Law, everyone has the right to preserve their physical and psychological health. Hungary promotes the enforcement of this right through labour protection, health institutions, medical care, support for sport and regular exercise, and the protection of the built and natural environment. When we look at this budget, we need to look at the fact that the budget was made in the spirit of the Fundamental Law. We need to clarify some of the basic issues. In terms of life expectancy, lifestyle plays a role of about 43 percent, genetic factors are 27 percent, health care is only 10 percent or 15 percent. There is a specific Hungarian situation with regard to life expectancy, since according to the data of the 20th century, the life expectancy in Hungary is 75.52 years, it is 72.8 for men and 79 years for women. There is a special situation when we evaluate Hungarian health care, this so-called Central European paradox. The essence of this is that mortality is extremely high in the 35- to 65-year-old population, virtually the worst in Europe. This obviously includes obesity, lack of movement, smoking, extremely high consumption of alcohol, but the social change that occurred in 1990 could also have contributed to this so-called Central European paradox reducing life expectancy. Interestingly, it takes 65 years, over 65 years, who are worth 65 years in Hungary, and her life expectancy is even the same as in Sweden, so it only covers this particular period. However, a very important factor is the extremely low social health awareness. What does health mean? Markos Kyprianou, the European Union High Commissioner for Health, said that resources invested in health are the pillars of a competitive economy, good health is a significant individual and social asset and resource, whose preservation and development is of national interest; the state of health of the population fundamentally determines the fate of a nation and its prospects for the future, and the country's economic competitiveness. The government, driven by its responsibility for the health of the population, launched national health programmes. From 2019 to 2030, five national health programmes have been launched, the source of which is also provided by the 2024 budget. These are the national anticancer programme, the national circulatory programme, the national musculo-skeletal programme, the national mental health programme and the national child health programme. What's the goal? Raising awareness of health; strengthening and extending screening programmes; improving the patient's cooperation with the health system is essential. The public health programme, which runs from 2021 to 27, is also important, and the budget of 2024 also includes sufficient resources. The tools are continuously monitored health development programmes and health protection programmes, environmental protection, occupational protection, food safety, disease prevention programmes, vaccination, screening and rehabilitation, and the provision of research and development of human resources. In recent years, the government has been trying to make health better, more efficient and more stable in the budget of 2024; at the same time, it has previously prioritised the elimination of gratuity money and, at the same time, wage development, compensating and compensating for gratuity money. The government, the national government, spends enormous resources on health services and health care. Compared to 2010, the amount of money spent on health wages has increased more than fourfold. Between 2010 and 2023, health spending increased from 1470 billion to 2670 billion, almost doubled. The budget of 2024 provides resources for health care, with a total of HUF 3200 billion in government, which is 420 billion more than in the previous year. It is very typical and typical that it provides HUF 2552 billion in government, which exceeds 2023 by 10.4 percent. The wage increase that has taken place and is taking place and is also taking place in the budget of 2024 in the health care sector, namely that the wages of nurses have increased more than three times and that the wages of doctors have increased by five to ten times. I give a concrete example: the salary of a beginner doctor was HUF 129 500 in January 2010, HUF 687 thousand in January 2023; a doctor working 30 years ago received HUF 225 425 in January 2010, and now HUF 1 million 794 thousand; and finally, a doctor working 41 years ago, who received HUF 262,000 in 2010, now receives nearly HUF 2 million 400 thousand. The same significant increase in wages can be seen, as can be seen by the workers. It is very typical that, combined with the pay increases of 2023 and 24 hours, there will be a wage increase in July, and then there will be only a 41,6 percent wage increase in 24 hours, which is extremely important for health professionals. Plus, it provides a surplus of HUF 57,000 per person among hospitals and health supporters. All of this indicates that it is of the utmost importance for the government to ensure the stable functioning of health care and the respect of health workers. There are many debates about the medical situation in Hungary and how fewer doctors are. Let us not forget that in 2004, when we joined the European Union, we also agreed on the European Union's intention to bring some 25,000 doctors from the ten countries we wish to join to Europe, Western Europe, only 5,000 doctors from Hungary. What's the status quo? The current situation is that doctors who had escaped before were slowly coming back, and it was just the last year when more doctors came back than they had left. [[21.30]] Details of the medical supplies. The residency support programme introduced in 2011 contains six types of scholarships, with an additional income of HUF 100-150-200 thousand for the participants. Since the start of the program, about 8045 doctors have participated in this system. The government has provided nearly 30 billion, which is also available in the 2024 budget. Ninety-one percent of the doctors who graduated signed contracts. In fact, 4500 of the 8045 medical scholarships are currently taking part in specialist training, 2700 have already obtained their exams, but they are still performing the mandatory service, 660 are already over this contract, the contract's commitment, but they continue to work in the state care system. 143 persons, so less than 2 percent of all doctors are those who returned their scholarships and do not wish to operate in the state system, they can act in private services, this is less than 2 percent of all doctors, and exactly 1.7 percent of all doctors. Strengthening the basic supply of government priorities is essential. Population change: on the one hand, the population has decreased, on the other hand, some areas have been depopulated, others have increased significantly, the system of basic care and practices need to be re-established. It's not possible that the operation of a practice is determined by the relationship between the doctor and the mayor. There were many examples of where this was positive and where it had a very unilateral impact on patient care. With the state taking over this, the system has become even. However, everyone needs to see that in a poorer area, municipalities have been able to provide much less opportunities than in a place where a rich municipality has been able to be more generous with its general practitioners. Significant structural changes are or have been made in the healthcare system under the law. I forgot to tell you that the restructuring of on-call care, the management and takeover of practices, but especially the on-call reorganization provides a kind of security, an on-call system available to everyone, against the former, completely chaotic situation. Some institutions have been transferred to future center hospitals, such as the University of Szeged, the University of Pécs and the University of Debrecen. In addition to structural restructuring of inpatient care, the government is committed to introducing a new governance system and new technologies. Last year, so-called robotic surgery, Da Vinci, was published, and its further development is also on the agenda. It is important to improve the supply of medicinal products to the general public. There are small-scale pharmacies that could operate at very little profit or even without their support, it is absolutely necessary to provide access to pharmacies everywhere, which applies mainly to small-scale pharmacies. There's a rule that in the pharmacy, you have to be 50 percent owner of the apothecary, who may not have enough resources. The 2024 budget also provides funding for this so-called patical loan scheme. The development of nursing homes is very important. In addition to training, it is important that the nurses are surrounded by appropriate social conditions. This is also typical of a significant nursing home development. It is very important that state-owned institutions ensure the development of the institution, the minimum conditions, a kind of responsible asset management, and adequate instruments are provided by the government, which will indicate the development. There is also about HUF 10 billion in the budget for the Budapest Healthy program in 2024. Conclusion: the budget of the responsible Hungarian national government in 2024 is in line with the Basic Law. Priority wage development in the sector, maintaining the health structure and making it more effective, improving the quality of patient care, improving patient satisfaction and improving patient satisfaction are the main objectives. It is safe to say that this is a holding, trusting, and a humane budget. I just want to compare what happened before 2010, when the wages were reduced, hospitals were closed, nurses were sent away, salaries were reduced, 16,000 beds were cancelled, visits were made, care deteriorated. It did not meet the conditions of constitutionality in any way. It is safe to suggest to opposition representatives that if they compare this budget with their health policies and budgets before 2010, they can bravely support the health aspects of the 2024 budget and then all of it. Thank you so much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-06-14-158	Congressman Csaba Nagy, Fidesz fraction. Here you go.
u2023-06-14-159	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, In the debate on the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2024 in T/4181, I will begin my speech with a brief historical overview of the programme "Hungarian Village" in Hungary. The aim of the project was to strengthen the belief that Hungarian villages have a future, it is worth staying there, working there, starting a family in the settlements of some 2,900 settlements below five thousand inhabitants. Today, progress is felt in almost every small settlement. After the parliamentary elections in 2018, on 15 May, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán announced in my constituency in western Baranya, Vajszló that, in order to develop small settlements, the government would launch a new programme under which he would entrust our fellow Members, Alpár Gyopáros. The main aim of the programme is to give immediate answers to the needs and problems of rural Hungary's settlements under the five thousand inhabitants and its development ideas. The aim of the programme is to increase the number of people living in villages and to improve the quality of life of the people living here by reducing the disadvantages affecting small towns. Since the change of regime, this program is the only one that provides comprehensive, accurate and fast solutions to small settlements in Hungary, with the programme being implemented exclusively from Hungarian sources. Since the start of the Hungarian village program in 2019 the government has spent more than a thousand billion forints on the development of small settlements. The most important feature of these developments is the support of the Hungarian village, so that the municipalities can complete the project in full according to local needs, i.e. from the bottom up. It is also worth noting, so it is very important that since the launch of the Hungarian village programme, a number of rural forums have been organised every year, where mayors, municipal representatives, parliamentary representatives, experts can comment on the calls for proposals and the operation of the programme. At these events, we can pay attention to each other, and under the direction of the government commissioner, Alpár Gyopáros, responsible for the implementation of the programme, fine-tunings always take place by listening to the views of the local authorities. Overall, between 2019 and 2022, the applications of the Hungarian village programme provided support to virtually all settlements with a population of less than five thousand people, so the number of beneficiaries is virtually one hundred percent. In my constituency, in Western Baranya, 170 of the 174 municipalities correspond to the announcements of the Hungarian village, in 170 settlements the municipalities, churches and schools of small settlements were able to carry out 740 winning applications from more than HUF 8.5 billion. If we also count the enterprises operating civil society organisations and village shops and municipal event subsidies, the aid amount is close to HUF 10.7 billion. Complementing all this, Hungarian Public Road Nonprofit Zrt. Taking into account its developments, this figure is much higher, we are talking about more than HUF 12 billion, and this does not include the support amount of the village CSOK. This is a major opportunity for this region that it has never received in the last 30 years since the change of regime. [[21.40]] Dear House, The Hungarian village programme is based on four pillars, which complement each other to strengthen and develop small settlements, improve local quality of life and stop population migration. The first pillar is the village CSOK, which can be used for the purchase and modernisation, expansion of used dwellings or houses, and for the modernisation and expansion of existing property. The aid is part of the tax refund aid, which can be claimed together with and outside the village CSOK. The aid concerns the VAT on the costs of upgrading works. I would like to say a few words about the amount of support. If you already have a child in your family or if your parents take one child, you can receive HUF 600 thousand, HUF 2 million for two children and HUF 10 million for three or more children. A maximum of half of the aid amounts can be spent on purchases, the remaining part can be used for modernisation and renovation. The village CSOK support is currently available in 2631 settlements. This is 92 percent of our country's settlements of less than 5,000 souls. The list of affected settlements is updated following demographic changes, 59 settlements have been removed from the list as, fortunately, the number of inhabitants in these settlements has increased significantly in recent years and 11 new settlements have been included in the beneficiary circle. Since the launch of the programme, applications have been received for more than HUF 215 billion. So far, 40,000 families have received support from the village CSOK framework. This form of aid is granted until 31 December 2024. I think it is very important to highlight the fact that, since the introduction of the village CSOK, population growth has restarted in more than 1,200 small settlements where there has been a loss of population. This is an excellent measure of the success of the measure. The second pillar is the village road base. Since 2019, nearly 3,700 kilometers of side roads through villages have been renovated. This has greatly improved accessibility of rural settlements and road safety. To mention concrete examples, the road between Somogyapáti and Patapoklos road has been renewed, the road between Hobol and Teklafalu, the road between Sörény and Zador, the road from Zador to Somogy county border, the road to Drávafok, the inland road section of Felszentmárton, the road between Vajszló and Baranyahídvég, the road route from the Királyeghegyháza, the road to Abaliget, the entire inland road section of Bodolyabér, Bodolyabér's access road, and a section of the road between Oroszló-Mindszentgodisa, or, for example, the path to Péterpuszta. The renovation of rural roads will continue in 2023, with the expected development of hundreds of lower roads of approximately thousands of kilometres. The third pillar is the tender system for improving the quality of local life. The system supports the improvement of the quality of village public services and the development of small-scale civil society organisations. In any case, tenders shall grant grants in the form of an advance of 100% of domestic aid. The beneficiaries of the tenders have been municipalities, local government associations, schools, parish communities and civil society organisations since 2020. The beneficiaries can have more than 31,000 winning applications worth over HUF 301 billion. Alpár Gyopáros, the government commissioner responsible for the development of modern settlements, and the experts and staff he led have done the responsibility of their own in an exemplary way. Thanks to the application system of the Hungarian village programme, in my constituency, in all its small settlements there was a local development of local importance, which contributes to the development of community transport, community life, the strengthening of municipal tasks, the modernisation of educational, social and health services. As an individual representative of 174 settlements, I have been able to attend events, events and celebrations of the communities and settlements of my constituency on a number of occasions, in which we have handed over successful development of the Hungarian village and programmed development, and we have been able to rejoice in our success together with the local communities. For some reasons, in the case of a specific and exemplary village in Western Baranya, I would like to illustrate the possibilities offered by the Hungarian village. Two new villages are located in the southwest of Baranya, and the settlement has a central role in the microregion. The common municipal office serves the municipalities of Bürüs, Endrőc, Gyöngyösmellék, Kétújfalu, Kisdobsza, Szörény, Teklafalu, Várad and Zádor. In the settlement there is a school, kindergarten, the nursery is currently being built, the general medical practice and the pharmacy are in operation, as well as several shops are located in the village. In two new villages there are 679 people, and in the microregion there are 2528 people. In the development concept of the settlement and in the developments soon described, it is clear that they serve not only the interests of Two New Villages, but also the interests of the region and the surrounding settlements. For example, the Sunflower Kindergarten and the Ignác Primary School of Konrád, operating in the Kétújfalu, which have been renewed with the support of the Hungarian village, as well as the area and local development operational programme. The Hungarian village programme is a tool on its own, but it is possible to achieve outstanding results by integrating the various development goals into a complex application system. Back in 2017, in my position as county president, we started thinking and developing an operational programme project for territorial and urban development with the Mayor to complete the energy modernisation of the kindergarten by 2023. In addition, it was possible to expand the building with a new wing and to develop the playground in kindergarten. The Hungarian village program also created the opportunity to renovate the road cover of the street leading to the kindergarten. The Konrád Ignác Primary School in Two New Villages is also a good example of the joint development of the Hungarian village programme and the regional and local development operational programme from applications. The modernization of the school building and the energy modernisation of the school building could take place in the framework of an operational programme application for land and settlement development, while the school's gymnasium could be renewed in cooperation with the Szigetvár school district and the municipality as part of the Hungarian village programme. From 2021, as the fourth pillar of the programme, market participants in the villages were able to obtain support through two basic programmes, with the support of small settlement shops, and with the start-up programme of the Hungarian village. In the case of a few hundred settlements in rural areas that are further away from the larger regional centre, it is considered a more transport-geographically isolated elementary issue that the less mobile population can obtain basic food locally. Of the 174 settlements in my constituency, I could give you a number of examples of the problems they face. Thanks to this decision, more than a hundred small settlements will have a business selling daily consumer goods in the framework of retail activities. These are therefore settlements where such a business was not operated and thus also have a job-creating significance. The other key issue is the case of settlements where there is a convenience store, but with government support, it can be further operated, more competitive and retain a job. This means that 1357 retail stores are being developed, renovated and expanded to sell daily consumer goods. The sum of the investments generated by the aid, combined with the minimum self-force undertaken by the entrepreneurs, amounted to approximately HUF 50 billion. At the end of 2022, 724 small-scale settlement shops received additional HUF 563 million public burden support to keep jobs and create jobs. I think it is important to point out that the programme of support for small-scale food shops continued in 2023. On 15 December 2022, the Prime Minister's Office launched a new tender to contribute to the increased operating costs of small-scale food shops. The aid is one-off, lump sum, one-hundred percent prefinanced, non-refundable, self-reliance aid, for which more than 3,000 aid applications have been received. In 2022, the tender was launched with a HUF 3 billion framework, and a decision was taken on 31 March 2023 to increase the available funding. The maximum amount of support that could be obtained was HUF 3 million per business. In this way, the government provides operating support to 2806 small village shops in the framework of the Hungarian village programme. [[21.50]] All companies applying for a valid tender won the tender; on average HUF 2.7 million could be spent on rent, rent or wage. In my constituency, Western Baranya, support for small settlement shops received more than HUF 1.4 billion in support, which involved 49 businesses. The support that can be obtained through the.Hungarian village's re-launching programme ensures the development of small settlements' businesses through the involvement of EU funds. The aid can be used for the acquisition of new equipment, machinery and real estate investments, such as the construction, expansion, modernisation and conversion of shops or workshops. The total amount of subsidies paid in 2021 and 22 is 8 thousand small village businesses, which share nearly 70 billion forints. To sum up: since the launch of the programme in 2019 the Hungarian State has spent more than HUF 1000 billion on the development of Hungarian small settlements in such a way that, in addition to the basic support, it responds to the needs of small settlements, such as support for small settlement events, the development of rural railway stations or the transfer of state property to municipal property. Dear House, The proposal for a budget law is a budget for protection, which protects the value of pensions, has created one million new jobs since 2010, keeps the allowance up to average consumption and protects the family support system. Despite the difficult economic situation, the government remains committed to supporting the Hungarian countryside and small settlements. This year, as well as next year, in the draft budget law of 2024, the programme "Hungarian Village" will continue. In this chapter it contains HUF 34.8 billion. Thus, the budget of 2024 ensures the development of the countryside, through the rural development programme and the Hungarian village programme, despite war inflation. I would ask my fellow Members to support and adopt the bill. Thank you very much.
u2023-06-14-160	Ferenc Varga asked for the floor in a normal time frame. Seven minutes and seven seconds, please.
u2023-06-14-161	Thank you very much. Madam President, Dear House, Even this year's draft budget has been presented well in advance, as is their good habit, and the problem is that the base data of the previous year are not available and the country's accounts have not been accepted. After the submission, the real domestic economic processes change for another six months, and the conditions of the global economy are also changed, so the soundness of the budget is extremely uncertain. Uncertain as the livelihood of the poor in our country today. As they say, inflation hits the poor most, and inflation is a tax on the poor, so you tax them well as usual. Eurostat still recorded inflation in May at 21.9 per cent, and whatever they are trying to convince the injured, above all, this is inflation in Orbán. The euro area inflation was only a quarter of that, although war and sanctions do not affect them any less than we do. The reason for our inflation is Viktor Orbán's failed economic policy, he raises prices, we live worse every year because of him, and as long as Orbán stays, his inflation will remain with us. The price of the two product groups on which saving is the most difficult and painful: domestic energy and basic food, more than one third, is clearly the worst hit by inflation. According to Eurostat, one fifth of the Hungarian population lived in poverty in 2020 and 21, with which we were ranked 13th in the EU. I note that at the time when you took over the government, this ratio was much less than a third, with which we stood in the 4th place of the EU, and you managed to take us down from there. And that's nothing. Who is poor is the poorest, written by Attila József, and it seems that you have literally fulfilled it. The average income of the poor was just two thirds of the 101,000 HUF poverty threshold, 67 thousand HUF. This is the worst figure in the whole EU. According to KSH, the fifth part of the population with the lowest income also needed 80,000 forints a month in 2021 to make a very, very scarce living. So the average Hungarian poor, the small pensioner, the public worker, and the majority of the gypsy were already crippled, let alone now, when inflation in Orbán is at its peak. Speaking of Hungarian gypsies. I have already asked you in last year's budget debate to start a real catch-up in the country. There's work to be done, dear Members of the Fidesz. Most of you have won a single mandate district. I suggest you visit the segregations more often at least in your own constituencies. Go down there, see what the circumstances are like there, how it is possible for the XXI. In the century, in your constituency, a multitude of people live in terrible conditions. Find a solution if the EU funds for this have already been stolen. Before you accuse me of the untruth of the following data, I would like to point out that I copied these from the documents of the Assembly Information Service, which you will have access to at any time. Find a solution to the fact that today the relative income poverty rate among Roma is 36.4 per cent, more than 300 per cent higher than for the non-Roma population. Then work to ensure that there is no more than 650 percent more of Roma in households with very low labour intensity than in non-Roma households. The proportion of those at risk of poverty or social exclusion among Roma is 66,6 per cent and for the non-Roma population 17.1 per cent. The difference is nearly 400 percent. That's something they could work with. As far as housing conditions are concerned: in 2021, when you had been in government for a long time, 91 percent were the proportion of people living in overcrowded housing conditions. According to a study in 2022, 80 percent of children living in the same room as their own parents live in the same living environment. Moreover, Roma residence segregation is one of the highest in Hungary. Have you done anything in 13 years? In my opinion, no. Life expectancy at birth is 83.2 years for women in 27 EU Member States and 77.5 years for men. Do you know how much this is for the Roma? In women, 72.8, and in men, 67.3 years. That is, today a Roma woman lives 10.4 and a man lives 10.2 years less than a non-Roma woman. I do not see in the budget the political will to help the victims of the economic and social crisis themselves, nor do I see that they have a real political will to catch up with the Roma. Dear House, And in the next few minutes, let me respond here to our debate with the Secretary of State, because if someone asks me what problems Hungarian gypsy face, I usually say the same thing as the country, only in a much larger proportion and all at once. This means that if we have bad health in our country, bad education, bad infrastructure, this is going down nicely among the Roma. I also told you where our educational indicators are, our health indicators are catastrophic, and you are always defending yourself with one thing: employment! How much more jobs have become in the field of employment! Indeed. For example, you have created the community work, which has been very nicely cosmetics the data, and you have claimed that this will be a bridge to the world of work, and it turns out that it is not so much, because to date there are nearly 100,000 public workers in our country, and they will also be returned to the public works programme in the same proportion from one public working cycle to the next. You guys are saying that if there's work, there's everything. In recent times, you have created workers' poverty. This means that today in our country, work is not enough for hundreds of thousands of people to make a decent living. If someone has a job, it doesn't mean that they appreciate him at work and that he can earn enough to support his family fairly. Here's where the problem begins, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for listening. [[Laszlo Varju applauds.]]
u2023-06-14-162	Imre Pesti, Congressman Fidesz, applied for a two-minute speech. Here you go. [[22.00]]
u2023-06-14-163	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr Ferenc Varga's speech led me to reflect. I don't want to argue for a long time, but if you look at Eurostat data, poverty looks quite different than you say. It is a matter of health care and Romaism. I said, if you have noted that it is good, if not, then I'll tell you that health care is only 10-11 percent responsible for people's health, 43-45 percent of the way of life. You need to look at what lifestyle means in terms of life expectancy. Unfortunately, alcoholism, smoking, obesity have significantly lower life expectancy in those social classes that are affected by this. He mentioned the pensioners. Let me say that the largest item is the retirement, HUF 6540 billion, and poverty has decreased, since pensions have more than doubled between 2010 and 24. Only in real terms, they increased by 20 percent. It is very important that women's benefits are present, those who work can retire after 40 years of work, they are entitled to an early retirement pension. This represents some 467 billion for the budget. The 13th month pension also means that there should be no poverty among retired Roma, a pension supplement that your fellow Members have taken unscrupulously. All of this indicates... [[László Varju: They paid seven times!]] All of this means that there is considerable support for the social class, especially pensioners, whose members would be most vulnerable to poverty. It is very, very important, and I suggest, my fellow Member, that you pay attention to this, that health services do not work without cooperation, without a change of lifestyle, without which the rise of the Roma in health cannot be expected. Thank you. [[Ferenc Varga intervenes.]]
u2023-06-14-164	State Secretary Miklós Dukai also applied for a two-minute speech. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-06-14-165	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I cannot go without saying what you said about Roma and employment and jobs. So let's look at where the country has reached by the end of the Socialist governments period. Three and a half million people have supported ten million people in this country. [[Laszlo Varju: 3.8!]] This was the data in 2010. Compared to that, when we started public employment, there were 300,000 people in public employment. Today, more than 4.7 million people work in employment [[László Varju: Of which 600 thousand in Europe!]] And compared to that, the proportion of public workers today is not 80,000. And you claim it didn't lead people into the world of work? We have transformed the system of public employment precisely to create a system for those who have not worked and lived on welfare during your administration because today, who wants and can work, goes to work and lives on earnings, they are transferred to the public employment system into the world of work. These numbers prove that very well. I don't know where Congressman lives or what numbers he works, but I don't think it's worth arguing with the facts. Thank you very much. [[László Varju: Yes, you can! With the fidesz facts, I'm sure.]]
u2023-06-14-166	I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak out against the remaining time frame. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see an application, so I'm going to conclude that we have reached the end of today's agenda. The general debate will be adjourned, and the continuation will take place tomorrow morning at 8 a.m. I thank you for your work, your perseverance, and the service of the staff of the Parliamentary Office today. Parliament will resume its session at 8:00 a.m. Meeting day's closed.
