u2023-04-17-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] I welcome my fellow Members and everyone who monitors our work. The 15th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and Sándor Szabó will help me in leading this meeting. Dear Parliament, Today we start our work with speeches before the agenda. Then, from 12:35 a.m. to about 13:45 a.m., the hour of immediate questions and answers will take place, and we will conclude the Parliament's meeting with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, Deputy Head of the Group, on behalf of the LMP, has applied for a pre-meeting address entitled "Our current affairs". There you go. I'll give you the floor.
u2023-04-17-1	Madam Vice President, Dear House, In my speech before last week's agenda, I asked the government to be brave and to ask the Hungarians how they wanted to turn Hungary into a battery ring. Tamás Menczer, State Secretary for Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs, replied that I was a party killer. Let me be clear: in your view, the party killer who, contrary to the government, would like to ask the Hungarian people in a referendum about the battery strategy or whatever to call it. Do you understand that the beach killer who wants to protect the field? Do I understand that it is a coastal killer who, unlike the government, understands what extended producer responsibility for battery production means for our country? And do you understand that in your reading, democratic functioning is equal to party killing? Dear House, Everyone already knows and understands that the government is a coward to ask the Hungarian people. They looked and considered: in one pan there was national interest and in the other the financial interests of international multinational companies. Finally, you voted for the interests of foreign multinational companies instead of protecting Hungarian agricultural land, our air and our waters. Last Monday in the Chamber, Viktor Orbán himself spoke out: László Lóránt Keresztes answered his immediate question, the Prime Minister literally, "These factories pay taxes." But if the factories do not pay taxes, the people working there will pay contributions and taxes. The fact is that the Prime Minister has made the point: these factories receive so much support from the Hungarian State in money, instead of the investor in investments made by the state, in tax incentives, that they almost do not pay taxes. If we add that most of them imagine production with Far Eastern workers, it is not difficult to calculate that the plants are not only destroying our environment, but ultimately they are not giving our country any financial benefits. This government attitude is an economic dead end, because a responsible government should strive to keep our young people at home by creating quality jobs, and those who have already left our country because they have not found their calculation, to lure them home. The responsibility of the government is serious, honourable House, because about half a million young people live and work abroad. They were forced to leave their country because the government did not create an economic environment for them that would provide them with a peaceful livelihood and a secure future. They really think that you can keep our talented young people home with the promise that, look, here's this super battery factory, you can go to the machine line, and if you're doing extra shifts, and you're working this weekend, then and only then will you earn a little better than the average wage, which, let's add, is in the last place in European comparison. I can almost see in front of my mind how young Hungarians living in London, Berlin and other Western European cities are excited to enter Google with the title "Accumulator Factory" and job offer. But I think we can agree that this will not draw our countrymen home. Instead of supporting the relocation of foreign factories by tens and hundreds of billions, the government should focus on supporting Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises with tax reductions, state aids and R &amp; D subsidies, because this could create the economic environment that would allow our countrymen who are trying to get lucky abroad to stay home. This could make it possible for young people not to have to move or even move home if possible. Now, who is the party killer, my fellow Members? Have the decency, for example, to make a decision, to issue a referendum, to ask the opinion of the Hungarian people. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of LMP and Dialogue.]]
u2023-04-17-2	On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Zsófia Koncz answers. I give you the floor, please.
u2023-04-17-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Here's the thing. With regard to battery production, we have had the opportunity to coordinate several times here, within the walls of Parliament. I think that the subject is important in this regard, and this subject must certainly be addressed, and, as with all investments in Hungary, it is necessary to comply with the strictest environmental rules, and we fully agree with that. What gives the whole situation strange, which I have already said, but since I see that LMP is now taking this subject very strongly, I have to point out that a few years ago there was virtually complete agreement that electric cars should be converted, and battery production is an important thing, they even protested at a joint press conference that a very large battery factory is not being built in Dunaújváros, and many quotes could still be made on this. [[To Antal Csárdi and Timea Szabó:]] I really like it when you ask the government representative, and then you can't listen to this, and I think it's very rude. Let's try to listen to the other one, because that's really how I stand with you, and I think it's important for the future. When we talk about serious matters, we do not talk to each other, at least the person who is the questioner. I think you should do this to the speaker, because I think that is the minimum in this House. [[Timea Szabó and Antal Csárdi intervene.]] I would also like to take a position on the issue of waste, for example, here. On several occasions, you are expressing virtually incorrect information about this. There has been a practice here since 2006, which says that the first person who placed the battery on the market is obliged to take back and manage the waste from the battery. [[Antal Csárdi: This is the factory!]] Technically, you're trying to get information about this that doesn't cover reality and basically points in a different direction. [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] Here is the new technology... I still feel that parallel communication is taking place, but at least I am glad that my speech is of great interest. We also agree, I am sure you know that from 2035 onwards, new vehicles with virtually zero emissions will be able to be placed on the EU market. I am sure you will also agree, or I hope, although sometimes I am uncertain that it is a huge achievement that we have been able to create a million jobs in Hungary, this is an incredible thing. [[11.10]] And when we announced this... [[Turning to Szabó Timea:]] I am pleased, Congresswoman, that you particularly do not like this. So when we announced this, it was practically not a supportive attitude from the opposition side, and I think it is an important thing. It is also important that hundreds of thousands of Hungarians work in the automotive industry, and it is also important to see that there is a competition to see who is involved in battery production. And you have to see these, because in this competition it would be very, very bad to miss, because the automotive industry provides a solid livelihood for many Hungarian families. [[To Antal Csárdi and Timea Szabó:]] And no matter how much they try to make up for what I'm saying, if they laugh at it, I think they're hurting the Hungarian people and those who might be working in this area. I would like to highlight a few things in this regard. Frans Timmermans, who, in principle, is the EU Commissioner for the Green Agreement, called on the European Union to produce electric accumulators. Today there are battery factories in France, the Netherlands, Poland, Great Britain, Italy, Sweden and Spain, and it is expected that half of the 27 Member States will produce lithium-ion batteries. Only in Germany is expected to be 14 battery factories, and all countries except Cyprus and Malta will participate in this value chain as producers in some way. I think it shows very well that our neighbouring countries, Poland and Slovakia, too, are also trying to participate in this competition, that Porsche has recently announced that it will set up a battery plant worth around EUR 1 billion in Slovakia. By the end of 2022, in Poland, there were 60 companies directly involved in the production of lithium-ion batteries. I would like to close with a quote from the LMP:. The May Other Politics wants to make Hungarian people the winners of the era of electric cars, renewable energy, green light, smart devices and smart cities. Mr President, I would like to ask you to return to this line. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-17-4	The president of the Szabó Timea Group, on behalf of the Dialogue, also spoke before the agenda. You have the floor, please.
u2023-04-17-5	Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday, the Göd-Ért Association organized a demonstration: It's an address. The site of the protest was a playground located between the homes and Samsung's battery factory. This distance was about 50 meters. If we look here, say, from wall to wall at Parliament's meeting room, the distance was a little bit bigger than here. For that reason, there is no such thing in Germany, Poland, the United States, France. In practice, the Fidesz government installs toxic battery factories in the mouth of people in Hungary. Speakers said, for example, that children in Göd should be taken to a doctor regularly, because there is constant noise, deep murmuring, murmuring, and therefore there is severe neurological damage to the children living there. The property of the people there is devalued, destroyed, people lost their homes. You are ruining the lives of the Hungarian people with this nightmare of a battery factory. They poison drinking water, soil, destroy the best quality of agricultural land. There were accidents in the Göd factory and fires and even deaths. Now, that's how much you pay attention to the so-called environmental rules. Here they like to say how much jobs battery production creates. It was precisely the Göd factory, whose own leadership acknowledged that more than half of the people working there were foreign migrant Chinese, Vietnamese, Malaysians, Ukrainians, that means more than 3,000 people in Göd alone. You have constantly accused the opposition of being pro-immigrant, while Viktor Orbán recently said that 500 thousand foreign migrant workers are expected to produce batteries in Hungary. 500,000 is 5 percent of Hungary's population! Hundreds of Chinese Vietnamese migrant workers are being deployed to some settlements without the local population being prepared, and immigrant workers are not being prepared, causing serious conflicts throughout the country. The Dialogue-Greens, to put it mildly, cannot be accused of anti- foreign affairs, but what you are planning with this immigration policy will destroy the Hungarian population. [[Intercoms from the pro-government ranks.]] Yes, see if you can find out whether Viktor Orbán said that or not, and try to disprove it. Fidesz's fever dream will practically bring a period of Rákosi 2.0 to Hungary. What you're doing is exactly Mátyás Rákosi's nightmare. [[Defiance and interrogation from the pro-government ranks.]] He was the one who imagined that Hungary would become a country of iron and steel, only then didn't have the raw materials that were necessary. The same is true of battery production: we do not have water, we do not have electricity, we do not have labour for battery production, but this is what we are forced to do. It's exactly the same as in the '50s. What kind of industry wants to be competitive without having anything to do with it? Here you, Zsófia Koncz, on the part of the government, will say once again that competition is the most important thing, that we should be the first. But how can we be the first to do something we don't have anything for? This is a total nightmare. You say that you will say again in the answer that we are not green, but this has nothing to do with environmental protection, it has nothing to do with green. This is what you do with battery production, this is a net treason, honourable Members. They're doing the exact same thing they did in the 1950s, putting our country at risk for Russian gas imports, so that we can never get away from Russian influence. Orbán announced that in order to produce batteries, we need to build three more gas power plants, and we will be transporting gas from Russia. Then he also quotes the Rakosi times as they silence people here. If you're so sure that this battery production is so good, why don't you allow the referendum initiatives? Why are all referendum initiatives canceled? Mothers of Mikepércsi for the Environment launched such a referendum in Debrecen. Do you know how the local election committee, the Fidesz, rejected it? That the ban on battery construction violates the right of those who hope to profit from it, your right. Only you have good battery production, not for the Hungarian people. The Dialogue-Greens again call on the government to withdraw from the Rákosi methods and to stop selling Hungary out to Chinese and Russian interests. Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2023-04-17-6	On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Zsófia Koncz answers. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Maybe I'd like to start by saying that we didn't think in any way that they could be accused of being foreign. I'm sure you've pointed that out here. I think that if you are dealing with politics, it is a very important thing that you always take national interests first priority. I would also like to propose this to the Group of Dialogue here in this House, as well as on the European Union stage and internationally. We would always like them to take their stand for the Hungarian people, and if they had to, they would still stand up for it, even in really difficult circumstances, when we may not be so many with this position. I wanted to highlight this in all aspects. Here, it highlighted environmental aspects related to battery production. I still do not see clearly what they can say about the fact that the Green Party Minister handed over the environmental license of the CatL plant in Thuringia, highlighting that authorisation procedures were conducted in record time, as the factory is an important contribution to environmentally sustainable mobility. However, we would also like to achieve our environmental and climate protection objectives, our climate policy goals, and I think that there has been agreement in this House so far, and for some reason there has been a virtually 180-degree turnaround on your part. [[11.20]] We have already talked about the importance of environmental rules, and indeed the strictest environmental rules must be observed. One of the most thorough official authorisation procedures is the combined management of the environmental impact assessment procedure and the single environmental authorisation procedure, i.e. the consolidated procedure. This guarantees that the investment must meet the strictest possible environmental conditions. In the case of the Debrecen CATL battery plant, this is the most stringent procedure has been carried out. In order to protect environmental elements, such as soil, air, nature, water, and noise protection, the Government Office of Hajdú-Bihar Vármegyei imposed a number of obligations on the investor. The environmental authority granted the authorisation on 13 February 2023, the decision became final on 18 February 2023. The document is available to the public on the website of the Government Office. After the factory has received an environmental permit, it must comply with its requirements and shall be subject to regular monitoring by the environmental authority. In addition, the factory shall ensure compliance with the permit limits by means of self-checking with an independent lab. This check should be carried out at least annually according to the legislation. But at the other battery plant in Debrecen, they check the emissions every month, and the emissions every six months. We're looking at these rules very seriously. Here, in principle, EU rules must also be fully complied with and very strict environmental rules are observed during construction. Congresswoman mentioned balancing energy. You are constantly trying to speak on renewable energy, but you are also practically pretending to ignore the very important role of balancing energy in the use of weather-dependent renewable energy. In this context, it is important that we build new blocks for balancing energy. I think that if your proposals were implemented by the Hungarian government, the Hungarian energy supply would be completely upset, Hungarian families would not have predictable and affordable energy. I think it would be good if they were to be treated in a package, because they are speaking against nuclear energy, while with balancing energy, we are building new blocks in Tiszaújváros and Visontan giving conflicting information. I would like to ask the congresswoman that if she speaks on energy policy, she should always take into account the serious consequences of saying something. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-17-8	Also before the agenda, Mr. István Apáti, Deputy Head of the Group, on behalf of Mi Hazank, asked for an address:. Change the on-call system equal to the death penalty. It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-04-17-9	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, In the context of a specific case study related in part to my constituency, I would like to demonstrate how the on-call care will not work or how tragically operate in Hungary from 1 March. What I am going to talk about is not only about the municipalities of Chengersima, Szamostatarfalva, Szamosbecs, Szamosgyalos, Komlódtótfalu, Csenger, Csengerújfalu, Ura, Pátyod, Porcsalma and Tyukod, and also 15 other settlements belonging to the district of Fehérgyarmat, but I can say without exaggerating that we are facing a national problem. Until 28 February 2023, medical care and medical supervision were provided with general care and on-call care for 168 hours out of the 168 hours of the week in this care area. From 1 March, the situation changed to this: from 8 a.m. to 16 a.m., there is general care on the working day, from 16 a.m. to 22 a.m., and from 22 a.m. to 8 a.m., a single ambulance provides 30,000 or 30,000 citizens in 26 settlements. It's even worse on weekends, public holidays and holidays, from 8 a.m. to 14 a.m., and from 14 a.m. to 8 a.m. the next morning there's nothing except this one ambulance. It is not difficult to calculate that this means that out of 168 hours of the week, care is provided for only 86 hours, which means that more than 51 percent of the week does not have any benefits outside an ambulance in a supply area of this size. It is therefore not difficult to see that this must be changed urgently, but not urgently, but immediately. Why did I bring up the bell-blank supply area? Not only because I have a natural bias towards my hometown, but because, ladies and gentlemen, I have achieved the worst of the best here. It is true that there are four vacant posts in the GP category in this area, but eight doctors signed the supply contract for the on-call system. There are eight doctors in the Csengeri district, and six of these eight doctors live in the district of the district, two live in the area of the district of Fehérgyarmat, so all eight live geographically close, and they can safely give out the 24-hour or 168-hour care for 168 hours. It is inexplicable why they blew up what has been relatively precise for many years. There was a medical on-call car until February 28th, and it hasn't been since March 1st. The other big problem is the issue of emergency care, which must be brought up here. I am sure that what I am going to say in connection with emergency care is also true of all or almost all of the country's walks and supply zones. There are two ambulances in total, but usually only one can do the service. Basic patient recording devices, drag rails, vacuum beds for fixing broken limbs, patient monitoring monitors are missing. The defibrillators are nearly a decade old. Tell me, in addition to such an elderly society, in such a health-care community, in such an on-call system, how can any meaningful improvement be expected with such an emergency care? So, with all due respect, in the spirit of seeking a compromise, I would ask you to change the on-call system, restore the original state of play. In integral restitution should be used in this case. It is very simple, because we have the right staff in such a fortunate situation. You don't have to do anything, just let the people of Satmar organize their own lives, and give you a little bit of help. As part of the rescue, however, the district expects immediate assistance, both in order to provide professional equipment for the two ambulances and in order to ensure an emergency car that has been promised for 30 years, since at least 30 thousand people in 26 settlements deserve this. The nearest paramedic and the nearest infirmary can be found in Matthew Salkan and Fehérgyarmat 35 kilometers away. What I would like to say to you, plus an extra argument, is that a little empathy, political empathy, if there was such a thing at all, is that if the MSZP-SZDSZ governments had designed such a supply system, such an on-call system and such a rescue, then what would have been your reaction to this opposition? Well, they'd probably have organized national protests and yelled out ordenar treason and stuff. We ask for nothing but the restoration of the original state and what this region has deserved for a very long time: development and at least a paramedic supply. Thank you very much, and I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's meaningful reply free of misconception. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-04-17-10	On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will respond. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-04-17-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Allow me to rebut from point to point what you said, and for a change, I'm going to rebut everything you've said from back to back. First of all, as far as the rescue and equipment are concerned, there has been a pull-rail and pelvic belt change in both cars within two or three years. This claim was therefore not real. [[Dr. István Apáti: It's not true, because it only happened on paper!]] It's been replaced with the Ambu balloon for ventilating. So that statement is not real either. The medical bag and the defibrillator were also replaced. And if you look at it, the average age of ambulances was around eight years or over the age of eight around 2010-2011, and now the average age of ambulances is about five years. So local equipment, national and local average age of cars has decreased, making it safer to supply. [[11.30]] As for the on-call system, why did you have to deal with the on-call system? Perhaps you have met many in recent years, and even in the letters and communiques of the Medical Chamber, they would like to see the on-call system become safer, because as many houses, as many customs, as many settlements, as many solutions were provided by the general doctor, where there were kft. he did this job; there were some places where it worked well, and they picked up the phone, some where they didn't pick up the phone, one was picked up, the other wasn't picked up; some where there was a person with a medical degree at the end of the phone line, some where a person with a normal administrative job was reached at the end of the line, so he was very, very heterogeneous, and in most cases there were a lot of complaints about the fact that he didn't, that the care doesn't work well enough on duty. What's happened since then? The system has been described by you as having regular general health care from 8 to 16 hours on weekdays, followed by general health care, and on weekends from 8 to 14 o'clock, during these additional periods, so the emergency services provide health care from the afternoon to the night hours on weekends. If you look at the data, the numbers, because you obviously talked about a lot of things, that the system is quasi-academic, from afar, in an abstract way, what you think is wrong with it, but let's see how it really works. Well, if we look at the numbers of the rescue service, because this system now works to log every event, we have the statistics, so we can look at them exactly; we can do this because we don't have to call 30 different numbers in these counties now, but we have the 1830 number, so everyone knows that if there is a problem, they call 112, if there is a problem, they call 1830, they don't have to browse the numbers, they don't have to browse the numbers, they don't have time to go up to the Internet, then I'm in which settlement or which part of which settlement I'm in, which service provider the municipality has signed up with, what number of the three phone numbers on the website, which phone number they don't pick up, which phone number they don't pick up; there's a four-digit number, 1830, and you can call, you can't quote any kind of complaints that you couldn't even quote at the 1830 number, let's say, we don't answer the phone. So the first previous problem, that they did not reach the on-call, was, fortunately, eliminated in recent months, because the new on-call system is under constant fire throughout the left, but they could not say a single case, not a single situation when the 1830 number was not responding; it is a telephone centre meeting the same serious conditions as the 112 universal emergency number. Overall, until mid-April, 22 363 patients were assisted in the new on-call system, 43 premises were on general care, between 16 and 22 p.m. on weekdays and between 8 and 14 p.m. on weekends, 13,490 patients were assisted on everyday night duty, so from 10 to 8 a.m. to 8 a.m., 1561 patients were treated on emergency duty, and from 14:00 p.m. on weekends, from afternoon to night, until 8 a.m., the emergency services provided 7312 patients, according to the data. Paramedics also have a seven-stage classification, and according to the seven-stage classification, most of the reports were in the case of grade 0, 1, 2 and 3, of the 22,000 cases mentioned above, 32 were in grade 4, 5 and 6, so those who really needed faster assistance and faster care. You couldn't say anything, and no one else did, because if you multiply these numbers, it means that an on-call doctor has to treat one patient per hour. It is not true that this would be an under-planned or non-patient assistance system, since if one patient is to be treated per doctor and per hour, there cannot be congestion or delayed intervention. There are separate cars in the emergency room, the media. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] In front of the public, we presented a separate driver, electronic road control, in the back with a separate wardrobe that will take the doctor out to where he needs to be, and there he can treat the patient. No specific complaint has been received, honourable Member, and you have not been able to say a single specific case. Thank you very much. [[Dr. István Apáti: Next time I'll bring you some! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-17-12	János Bencze, representative of Jobbik, applied for a pre-meeting speech. Are you willing to protect Hungarian farmers? It's an address. You're the word.
u2023-04-17-13	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, The events are spinning, and thank God, it is possible to modify my comment a little bit, so action has been taken in Hungary, we have to acknowledge this, because there is an import ban on Ukrainian grain, and we have reviewed it with fellow farmers, and we have read what the situation is, and it is true that until 31 June 2023, cereal products from Ukraine, including sugar, are forbidden to be imported into the country. The farmers are sending a message. First of all, they thank me, they propose a small amendment to make the defense meaningful: they ask for a number in this, at the, 2023, the, 3, a 6, the 30 June 2026 will be perfectly satisfied, and they are protected against the Ukrainian grain. Why am I saying this? It is well known that the beginning of the harvest is Péter-Pál, according to folk tradition, 29 June, so if we go to this, the Hungarian farmers won a day. They have a genuine fear to convey: the Ukrainian party is uploading its containers in the border areas on the Ukrainian side, and after 30th it covers this crop volume to the country. The request is therefore to do everything possible to ensure that Hungarian farmers are protected for as long as possible. The Hungarian farmers have one more request for you: it is in question that what has come into the country so far, with which the silos are known to be full, because those who had brains, opportunities and connections, have bought themselves full of Ukrainian grain, they would like to know what is happening to the grain in the containers, they ask for rigorous tests on what has already been imported. There are the Slovak results and the results of the measurements, there is a product in which a thousand times the amount of the plant protection product exceeded the limit value by a thousand times the limit value. We'd like to know how you got into this country. In addition, Hungarian farmers ask you and here, regardless of the policy of opinions, who are the companies in Hungary who have poured this relentless amount of products of inadequate quality, in many cases normally toxic, onto the country. I'd like to see the list of these companies in public by volume imported. And the farmers also ask what we have already said, and this request continues and the Jobbik-Conservatives stand by it, because Hungarian agriculture must be protected to hit these companies with an extra profit tax, from which the Hungarian farming community will be compensated. Because it has to be noted that in the last seven months, because I have indicated that there is a problem with these products, and I am not the only one who has indicated that this has come to you from many forums, they have already indicated that it will cause problems so that they can compensate these farmers for the damage they have suffered in the last seven months. And what are these damages? Well, for example, let's see how barley, which will harvest in two months' time, is tied down at what prices the barley is now selling for Ukrainian cereals! For about half of last year, so we have to stick to all kinds of EU standards, our farmers, whether we like it or not, until the Ukrainians do not respect anything compared to that. And this grain has already spilled on the country, these products are already here. There is one more request, and many of you know that I am also a beekeeper, I came to Parliament as a beekeeper; if you have heard one half of the society of Hungarian farmers, why they have not heard the beekeepers' request, the honey coming from the territory of Ukraine causes at least such a problem, you have to respectfully ask the government to extend these sanctions to honey, so that Hungarian beekeepers can enjoy protection, because honey is the same as in cereals and agriculture: Ukrainian colleagues produce freely, unconditionally, we have all sorts of EU conditions, and this is nothing but equal competition. This is a kind of free market competition, in which we have very strong disadvantages. So thank you very much, that's all we're asking for. I hope you find an audience. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2023-04-17-14	On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Sándor Farkas responds. There you go. I'll give you the floor.
u2023-04-17-15	Thank you very much. Madam President, Dear Parliament, Congressman! The question you raised was almost answered by you. The additional questions that you have raised at this moment are also addressed by the Agricultural Ministry, not only with regard to the honey issue, but also with regard to all other incoming, oily seeds and other products. But I have to say to you that this is practically the case now so that everyone can understand, because we, who live in agriculture, know exactly what this is about, but the wide-ranging Hungarian society does not always know that the situation was developed and that it was possible for everyone from Ukraine to be transferred through the Black Sea to African countries, I could say that a significant part of the goods to be delivered through the solidarity corridor will not go to Africa on the maritime route at all to get to Africa, that is the question, but a significant part of these goods started through land, Hungary, Slovakia, Poland, Bulgaria and Romania, and this cereal has flooded these countries, including us and not only us, but also a significant part of it has gone on to other European Union countries. [[11.40]] It is also important to know that this decision, which has just been made in the days, the day before yesterday, serves to protect Hungarian farmers, Hungarian agriculture, because, in full agreement with the ideas you have raised, these goods, which have come to Hungary, are produced under other conditions of cultivation, if I may put it so, so they are not produced under strict plant health conditions as they are produced either in Hungary or in other countries of Europe. They are much looser, much simpler, so their cost of production is much cheaper, they can produce at much lower prices, and economic sizes could be added. Thus, products of uncertain origin come in, which is also examined by the Nebih and other authorities. In many cases, now that this issue has been raised in the days of last week, in order to examine the intrinsic values of these products and the different residues, they have indeed found a high level of active substance that can be harmful to health. Therefore, these products should be withdrawn from the market and are expected to be destroyed. So in this, what you're asking us to do is mark those businesses, companies, we're going to get to everyone with these items, and we're going to investigate them. However, I must also say that there was an initiative in this. Eastern European agriculture ministers or I can say this: from Poland to Bulgaria, the agricultural ministers of this North-South axis have already sat down on one occasion in January to try not only to prevent it, but also to provide adequate compensation to producers whose grain is stuck, if I may say so. This has been rejected, but interestingly, Poland, Romania and Bulgaria have received ridiculously, I say EUR 53 million, which, if distributed, is an insignificant amount for farmers in the three countries. We have been left out of this, and therefore the Prime Minister has launched another series of negotiations, and we are looking forward to the outcome of this. Unfortunately, we did not get ahead of this, and it is clear to us that Hungarian farmers must be protected at all costs, precisely in order to prevent such a case from happening again, and that Hungarian producers with their products not only in terms of grain, but also in terms of oily plants, honey and goods that are exported to Hungary, either with quality controls, or until the European Union Brussels has taken a protection measure that is acceptable to us, it is possible to postpone the deadline. We would like to make it possible to move Brussels forward on these issues until 30 June, Peter and Paul. If not, further sanctions will survive in the interests of Hungarian farmers. Hungarian farmers are fully protected and supported by the Hungarian government. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-17-16	Imre Komjáthi, on behalf of the MSZP, also applied for a speech before the agenda:, Security for all Hungarian workers! It's an address. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-17	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking again in favour of the Hungarian working people in this House. The word "empathy" has been said, so I am asking you for empathy for the Hungarian workers. When you have a glass of wine after Sunday's lunch and take a nap in front of the TV, the Hungarian worker kisses his loved ones, grabs his bag and goes to work at the factory. When you decorate the tree with your loved ones at Christmas, my former colleagues do their job with the same decency. Ladies and gentlemen, And I'm thinking mostly about the pro-government. You do not know or do not want to know that you have sentenced tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of Hungarians working with a single push of a button to life imprisonment when they abolished early and early retirement. Many of my former colleagues could have retired at the age of 57, after 40 years of work, and enjoyed the well-deserved rest, but you took that opportunity away from them. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian workers need real security from the moment of birth until the good Lord calls us to stop a worker's life telling us that he's working overtime for a sick person, that at the age of 40 he flips the boots, leaves the family with a professional door full of debt, and he may even have to do his funeral on credit. Because we don't live to work, we work to live. Ladies and gentlemen, You and my fellow liberal self-regulating politicians know that there is no capitalism with a human face. The capital is trying to reduce its expenditure in order to benefit more, and it is least likely to save on its own gain, at its own expense, and most likely to save on workers. It is therefore the duty and duty of the governments at all times to protect workers from the cost of capital being wasted. Brakes and counterweights are also needed in the world of work. Rather, the safety of working people should be greater than the benefit of capital. Ladies and gentlemen, I have no doubt that petitions here, signatures there, unfortunately, the battery companies will be built. Therefore, this is a great opportunity for you to prove that the interests of Hungarian workers are indeed more than the interests of Hungarian and international capital. We want guarantees for the working Hungarian people. The government should consider the Hungarian working people as strategic partners. I therefore ask Minister Péter Szijjártó to sit at the negotiating table with the unions as soon as possible and to conclude a strategic agreement with them, not just with employers. This should include OSH and labour guarantees, guaranteeing that the weekly working time limit will under no circumstances exceed 48 hours. The number of overtimes should be more than 250 hours per year only if permitted by collective agreements. It should be laid down that only jobs with collective agreements can be authorised to employ third-country workers to the government. It should be noted that only the employer who ensures the right of workers to establish and join a trade union can be identified. The agreement should ensure that employers who intentionally and severely violate the requirements of established labour relations are not able to receive domestic or EU budget support for two years. Confirm and expand the number of official inspectors of the National Inspector General for Labour and Safety. Protect the interests of Hungarian workers, instead of the interests of Hungarian and international capital! Security for all Hungarian workers, for our common future, for Hungary! Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2023-04-17-18	On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State János Fónagy responds. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-19	Thank you. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, From 1998 Fidesz and KDNP have been constantly working towards full employment and building a work-based economy. The number of people employed has been around 4.7 million for over six months, which is one million more than in 2010. The unemployment rate is below the EU average. In 2010, unemployment was 11 percent in Hungary, in 2023, in February this year it was 3.6 percent, which, according to the international standard, means practically full employment. Compared to the best data so far in March 2022, the number of people in the job search register has decreased by about 7,000. This has decreased by 400,000 since 2010. [[11.50]] The government's aim, as I said, is to increase full employment, further employment. In particular, the government plans to meet the ever-increasing labour demand by increasing the economic activity of the Hungarian population, involving the inactive in the labour market. Labour support for businesses launched in December last year and support for work experience will substantially help create new jobs and the workforce to fill them. The applications have already been submitted for the employment of 12,000 jobseekers, worth some HUF 12 billion. Thanks to the programme, about 9,000 people have been working so far. The government supports intra-country mobility with travel and accommodation support with a work discount. Our goal is for those who can and can find a livelihood in the world of work. Wages continued to rise in January 2023. Gross earnings increased by 16.1 percent over a year, with average earnings rising by 2.6 times compared to 2010. In order to reduce inflation and protect families, the government has so far taken some twenty measures, of which ten are specifically protecting businesses and jobs. We support energy intensive companies with a HUF 220 billion framework; we announced the Széchenyi Card Programme, which allows Hungarian small entrepreneurs to obtain a loan with a 5% interest rate. This year it is 290 billion forints. We have announced the factory rescue program and the factory rescue warranty and loan program. For large companies, we have launched an energy efficiency programme of HUF 230 billion and a loan programme of EUR 200 billion. We've announced the Baross Gábor reindustrialization loan program. We extended the interest rate stop to the loans of small and medium-sized enterprises, affecting some HUF 2000 billion of loans and 60,000 businesses. We announced a moratorium on the repayment of agricultural loans; we announced a tourism action plan; we increased the level of support for work and announced a support programme for jobseekers under 25 years of age and over 25. Honourable Congressman, Last but not least, I would like to mention that, since 2010-2011, Hungary has had work peace in terms of material services, such as energy and public transport. [[Gergely Harvesto: You banned the strike, that's why!]] That's hundreds of thousands of employees. You mentioned, Congressman, that we are not aware of what it means to go to work. I mean, I've been working three shift jobs for almost two decades, and I have some idea what it means when they blow in the morning, and I have to get up at 3:45 in the morning. I also have the idea that, at the time, the early retirement pensions you have just put forward concerned primarily gay workers, underground workers, and in the relevant annexes to the collective agreement, they have been regulated in detail. Undoubtedly, there are still jobs where this issue is on the agenda, which are constantly subject to negotiations; I am thinking of drivers, bus drivers, workers in cold or hot jobs, and so on. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] If I may, Madam President, one more thing. We are in constant contact with the unions, both with individual organisations and with their organisations. Thank you for your patience, Madam President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-04-17-20	From the Momentum Group, Mr Szabolcs Szabó has applied for a speech before the agenda:. On our current affairs, please order.
u2023-04-17-21	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, A pretty shocking thing happened last week. The Embassy of Russia in Putin had the nerve to issue a statement expressing their current outrage on the basis of the 56 Freedom Fighters. We are talking about the embassy of Russia in Putin, which shows clear continuity with Stalinist KGB Russia. Putin is the same as Stalin, Beria, Malenkov, Zhukov, Khrushchev, Molotov, Kaganovich and his associates [[Nacsa Lárinc: Your buddies?]] where Anna Politkovskaya is simply shot down on the street like a dog; where opposition representatives are shot down on the street or poisoned on the plane; where plain, simple citizens are taken to prison because their children draw something in kindergarten, or are talking in a café between them, that means exactly the same thing, they are the same thing. [[Harvesting Gerely: Look around your bench first!]] In addition, we are talking about Russia in Putin, which has invaded a sovereign country in the neighbourhood in violation of all international conventions. As a Hungarian, I would expect the Hungarian Foreign Minister and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to enlist the Russian ambassador after such an impertinent Russian announcement, and send him home for two weeks to study our common history: read about 1849 and 45 and 56; because I may say something new, but I remember that in 56 our freedom fighters, our ancestors, fought against the repressive Russians, and in my constituency the most intensively: Csepel held the longest; at Juta Hill in Soroksár we achieved the greatest victory against the Soviet-Russian invaders. And perhaps I would send the Russian ambassador to look at Russian public collections, such as St. Petersburg, Moscow, Sergijed Posad or Nizhny Novgorod, where there are Hungarian art treasures kidnapped by these corpse robbers, because they are still there to this day and have not been returned. However, quite amazingly, this was not the case after the impertinent Russian announcement. Szijjártó didn't order the ambassador, he went to Moscow to negotiate the joint business. How exactly did you imagine that? How does this serve the Hungarian interest? Where's the national pride, where's the respect for our heroes in '56? But I could also refer to the Hungarian interest in bringing the Russian spy bank here. And it's really amazing that the member of the board appointed by the Hungarian government, who, by the alias D8, was a state security operative, is still going into your fidesz propaganda, and lamenting about what is going to happen now. I was quite young at the time of the change of regime, specifically 11 years old, but I can't imagine that most of the Fidesz-KDNP representatives sitting here, who were either young adults then or were a little older, middle-aged, wouldn't have been appalled in an amazing way, and wouldn't have sent everyone to a warmer climate if the Russian ambassador had issued such a statement, or heard that in 33 years the Russian Embassy might have issued such a statement. Or they wouldn't have been upset about it, and rightly so, that a former State Security operative is defending your position in your media. So I can only suggest that they represent Hungarian interests, because I think that is the right Hungarian position and the right position that I have just said here, that this was an impertinent Russian communication. That is why they should represent this, and not to mention start restoring confidence in our allies and friends, because Poland, Romania, Slovakia, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Sweden, Finland, Romania, Croatia, the United States, Germany, France, and I could list NATO and EU members, they are our friends and allies; Putin Russia is our enemy because, as I said, they represent exactly the same KGB Russia as Stalin, Berija, Zhukov and the others. Let us Hungarians stick to this together! You guys should stick to this. [[Applause from the benches of DK and MSZP.]]
u2023-04-17-22	State Secretary Levente Magyar responds on behalf of the Government. I give you the floor, please.
u2023-04-17-23	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for the historical outlook. Perhaps it is worth a few more motives to dwell on this. Hungary and Russia, Hungary and the Soviet Union are aware of all the pregnant aspects of their past, everyone who graduated from Hungarian school and studied Hungarian history. [[12.00]] We know exactly what kind of power threat Russia has posed to Central Europe over the centuries. Only four times in the last 200 years Hungary has faced Russian occupations and attempts at Russian occupation. The Russian troops from Tsar from the summer of 49 became a champion in the smothering of the freedom fight of 49. During the First World War, the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy and its Hungarian troops fought life and death in Galicia with the Russian troops in Tsar, which broke into Hungary several times. A lot of people can remember the brutality of the Soviet occupation of 1944-45 even today in Hungary, and as you said, Member, 1956 is a foundation for political and national identity training for many of us. At the same time, honourable Member, you have been embezzled by the fact that Mr. In the second half of the century, a significant part of today's generation suffered physically all the brutality and consequences of Soviet imperialism. This was possible because in Hungary there was a Hungarian collaborator class, which served this imperialist Soviet presence unconditionally, willingly and politely, which was marked by a Communist and then called MSZMP, through a regime that was willing to intervene in the repression of millions of Hungarians. And you, honourable Member, have started in the last parliamentary elections with the political heirs of this power. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Nacsa Lőrinc: He was on the posters. Szabolcs Szabó: I was 11, you poor bastard!]] You are in a political alliance with the people who have served this partly from a actively controlling position, the sinful regime that brings the suffering of millions of Hungarians. What are you talking about? [[Szabolcs Szabó: I was six years old.]] What are you talking about? What are you talking about? You are a community, you are a personal community with the people who have led this Russian-Soviet imperialism, Congressman. I think it's infinitely false. [[Eszter Vitalos: That's right! Szabolcs Szabó: Pathetic!]] As far as current relations are concerned, Mr President, if we assume that 50 years ago, 70 years ago, 100 years ago, 200 years ago, Hungary had to defend its independence against whom Hungary has been in conflict with in the last centuries, and on this basis we make our daily decisions and shape our diplomacy, Hungary will be able to establish a constructive and future relationship with at least a few countries in this troubled Central European region. After all, there is hardly any country, a people with which Hungarians would not have had a greater or lesser conflict in their history. Undoubtedly, the Russian people are among those to whom the current state power, which is always current, posed a threat to Hungarian sovereignty. It's a pregnant past, but it's a historical past. And we assume that today we have the responsibility to ensure that Hungary is a fully protected place with prosperous energy security, physical security and military security. Hungary has no enemies against your rhetoric, Hungary is not currently an enemy of any country, we strive to have the best relations with everyone. Congressman, I would ask you to observe what the Hungarian Government has done for peace in recent months, over the last year, to monitor the programmes that we are doing for peace, and these, if you look carefully, are fully in line with our rhetoric and the steps that we are once again defending Hungary's security: physical, energy security, and in which we strive for a constructive, pragmatic, fair relationship with all the great powers around us, including Russia. Thank you very much for your attention, Madam President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-04-17-24	From the Group of the Democratic Coalition, Mr Gergely Arató has applied for a speech before the agenda entitled "Active affairs." You have the floor, please.
u2023-04-17-25	Dear House, My fellow Members and members of the Government with much less respect for Fidesz and KDNP! [[Bence Rétvári: The style of man!]] What have they done to our country, what have they done to the Hungarian economy and the forint? How could they do this to Hungarian people and Hungarian families? ! A kilo of bread for a thousand forints, a sour cream for 800 forints, a chicken breast for 900 forints? Is it a luxury item for trapping cheese and butter? I know, Congressman, the truth hurts, but that doesn't mean you have to yell. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] In 2023, what kind of government in the middle of Europe does that to its own people? ! What kind of prime minister would rather destroy the entire country if that was the price of staying in power? The answer is that he's like you, like the Orbán government. The Orbán government has done this, and the irresponsible weakening and unpredictable economic policy of the Orbán government has created the largest inflation in the European Union, which has proved to be lasting. The Orbán government has unleashed this economic nightmare on Hungary, which we call inflation in Orbán. The policy of the Orbán government increases prices in stores every day, the Orbán government bleeds out the reserves of Hungarian families in these months. You have doubled food prices in just two years, which is so unique across the continent that even in the war-torn Ukraine, this has not happened between mass graves and bombed buildings. This has nothing to do with the war or the sanctions that you voted for in Brussels. This has to do with one thing: how much Viktor Orbán loves power. That's how it is. Orbán loves power so much, he doesn't have expensive bread, he doesn't have expensive cheese, he doesn't have expensive butter, he doesn't have expensive sour cream. It's not expensive for him that we buy in stores for that, because nothing is expensive for him, as long as we Hungarians pay his bill. Honourable Members, It's not the sour cream or the trappy cheese, it's the Orbán government. Your government costs us that much. The Hungarians cannot afford this luxury to remain in power. We can't afford the luxury of staying in the Orbán system, because by this year real wages have been reduced by 5 percent, which means that whoever has received a raise is worth that much less money. Of course, the exception is Viktor Orbán himself, who in advance has more than doubled his salary. There is a reason why the shadow government says that the European minimum wage must also be introduced in Hungary after we have fought this out in the European Union under the leadership of Klára Dobrev. We Hungarians cannot afford the luxury of keeping the Orbán system and inflation in Orbán, because pensions have lost significantly since the pension correction in January. There is no reason for the shadow government to say that a quarterly pension correction should be introduced, because pensioners would rather spend their money at the end of the month than lend to the state. We Hungarians cannot afford the luxury of keeping the Orbán system and inflation in Orbán, because the poor already spend more than a third of their income on food. It is no coincidence that the sales of retail shops have fallen most in Hungary throughout the European Union over a year. Yes, there are Hungarians who lie down with a growling stomach at night because they cannot pay for the inflation in Orbán increased food prices. Even according to KSH, there was 43 percent increase in food prices in Hungary, while inflation is now one-digit in most of the European Union. Even György Matolcsy told you that this would happen, this is clear evidence that as long as the Orbán system remains, inflation in Orbán will remain. Today, it has been said in Parliament that twenty measures have been taken to combat inflation. And what's the result? The fact that inflation is stuck over 25 percent. Well, congratulations. I'd rather you didn't take any more action, because it's gonna cost us a lot of money. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that you really are fighting inflation by not doing anything in the world, continuing to spend money and hoping that it will get better someday. [[Eszter Vítalos: Sit down, that's enough!]] Ladies and gentlemen, How much does a kilo of bread cost to make the country more important to Viktor Orbán than power? Will he resign at 2,000 forints of bread? Will you wait for the 3000 thousand forints of bread and with it for the hunger riots? One thing's for sure: there's already a governorial alternative that can heal the wounds. The shadow government led by Dobrev Klára is Hungary's only hope of leaving inflation in Orbán behind us and making shopping affordable again. We will clean up the ruins left by the Orbán system to the Hungarians. Don't look back. We're ready for the job. There will be a European minimum wage, there will be a valuable pension, we will still be a European Hungary, and we will live in European prosperity. Thank you very much. [[Eszter Vítalos: Only then you will not govern! Applause from DK's ranks.]] [[12.10]]
u2023-04-17-26	On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-27	Thank you very much. Madam President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, [[Dr. Robert Répássy to Gergely Arató: This was the editorial of the Free People!]] Well, let's see what this governor-capable alternative looks like. If you'll allow me, I'd like to start with the time when you were responsible for dealing with the crisis when you made the decisions in the country; in Hungarian, you governed, in 2008-2009. Consequences: Hungary will be insolvent; only with the help of the European Union and the World Bank will we be able to avoid paying pensions and salaries in Hungary. Twelve percent unemployment, 600-700 thousand people out of work as a result of your crisis management. Government debt is climbing above 80 percent. In Hungary, there has never been a debt as big as your crisis management. The real value of pensions is decreasing, pensioners are losing, 13th month's pension is being taken away; in fact, pensioners had a problem with living. [[Gergely Harvesto: Not now! Everything's fine now!]] They don't know the incomes... The value of real income is falling. The budget deficit is skyrocketing, Hungary is bankrupt. Then comes the change of government. But before we get to that, [[Gergely Arató: The 2024 turn!]] Let's see what you do in times of crisis, when in the country, in Hungary, you cannot decide, because you are not in parliament, you are not a government. Number one, you support the sanction, loud and clear. [[Kálmán Olga intervenes.]] The sanctions invented by the European Union and imposed on European Union countries are supported. In Hungary, the sanctions are not supported by 97 percent of the people and by your voters. [[Kálmán Olga: Why did you vote for him? Eszter Vítalos: Let's not talk about lying. Kálmán Olga: It's the truth. Eszter Vitalos: Sure! Sure.]] If you were in the government, this sanction would now mean that Hungary will not receive oil or gas. In Hungary, the economy would no longer work, there would be no petrol, and who knows what else. [[Intercoms in DK's benches.]] I'm asking you, how many dollars did the left hand get for doing this? How many dollars did you get? [[Gergely Harvester: Less rubles than you! Eszter Vitályos: Of course, he made sure of it.]] Then let us continue to look at your role in Hungary's lack of access to European Union funds. Ferenc Gyurcsány said:. We were there, we were working. Yes, we have made sure that Hungary, the Hungarian people, the Hungarian economy and the Hungarian state do not receive EU funds. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, [[Kálmán Olga: I mean you! It's an honest sentence.]] Thousands of billions of forints are missing from Hungarian households, the Hungarian economy. Did Ferenc Gyurcsány admit that they did it? There is a crisis, they cannot decide in Hungary. What are you doing in Brussels? What are they doing in the European Union? They are trying to destroy the Hungarian people; of course, they say that this is for the change of government; the real consequence is that the economy did not work at your time, but fortunately the government can replace these resources. I ask you: how many dollars did they get from their clients to destroy Hungary for this activity? [[Defiance, interruptions in DK's benches. Kálmán Olga: Weak!]] Then I ask you, did you play a role in speculation against the forint? [[Gergely Arató: Ask Szijjárto! Eszter Vítalos: Volt, volt! Yes, there was.]] Will Ferenc Gyurcsány admit that, yes, we agreed to attack the forint to destroy the forint and to have the highest forint price at the most difficult time? And I ask you, these three types of activity that you do outside the country, in the European Union and elsewhere in the world, this is the effect on current inflation, honourable Member, on what effect it has had: a huge impact. But what's real, anyway? [[Gergely Harvestó: Talk to Matolcsy at least once in a while!]] GDP increases by 4.6 percent in 2022 and we want to reach 1.5 percent in 2023. The number of unemployed does not decrease [[Sic!]] The employment rate in the European Union today is one of the largest compared to 2010. We preserved the real value of pensions and the real income grew by 2.6 percent in 2022. The investment rate is 28,5 percent; it is the highest in the European Union during the war year. Honourable Congressman, If you had dealt with the crisis like this, this country would be in a much better state. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Gergely Harvesto: You've been on the wheel for 13 years!]]
u2023-04-17-28	On behalf of the KDNP Group, Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén has applied for a speech before the agenda:.Welcome to the Holy Father. It's an address. I give you the floor, please.
u2023-04-17-29	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. As well-known to this House, Pope Francis arrives to our country for a three-day official visit on 28 April 2023. Of course, every visit to the head of state is important, but the Pope's visit stands out in particular. In history empires have risen and fallen, fallen and disappeared, but the authority of the Roman pope is unbroken, the ultimate basis of which is the continuation of the present pope's mission of St. Peter, to whom Christ has entrusted the leadership of his church, from whom he has heard three times: "Gift my sheep! I'm sorry, I'm sorry, It is a special gesture of Pope Francis to visit us Hungarians for the third time. He came to Csíksomlyó, visiting God's people in Transylvania; then to the Eu-charistic Congress in Budapest; and now, on a three-day apostolic journey to Hungary, for an official visit. It is well known that an official visit to Pope II was first made. Pope John Paul did so in Hungary in 1991. Then, at the time of the change of system, his message is that you should not be afraid! It meant strength, faith, and hope. His second official journey in 1996 ensured the establishment and flowering of the ecclesiastical institutional system. Here again, I would like to stand up for our Polish brothers when the great and holy pope is being attacked with no means, the pope to whom we Central Europeans owe our freedom without blood. The focus of Pope Francis' visit is on the students of youth, church schools and universities. The foundation of everything is St. It was at Pope John Paul's second visit to Hungary. The current meeting of Pope Francis at the Sportarena with young people and their teachers and at the Pázmány Péter Catholic University with professors and students is based on this foundation. It is worth quoting from Ex Corde Ecclesiae: The Catholic University born from the heart of the church belongs to a tradition that can be traced back to the origin of the university as a university. All Catholic universities, such as universities, are a scientific community that strictly and critically promotes the protection and development of human dignity and cultural heritage, research, education and other activities that they provide to local, national and international communities. It has institutional autonomy that is necessary for its effective functioning. As regards church public education, we can add that, especially in recent years, the number of ecclesiastical public education institutions has increased several times thanks to the service of the church, the free choice of Hungarian citizens - students and their parents - and the equal funding of the state. The official symbol of the visit of the Holy Father is the Chain Bridge. The bridge refers to the Latin title of the popes, Pontifex Maximus, which appears at Pope Damasus I, and became used with Great St. Gregory. Pontifex, or pons facere, is literally a bridge builder, the largest bridge builder. The symbol is obvious: a bridge between generations in terms of education, a bridge between people and social groups in terms of solidarity. The Chain Bridge connects the western and eastern banks of the Danube in Budapest, symbolically the West and the East. With Szent István Hungary became an integral part of the West; but we understand and do not deny the East. Dear House, Right here, right now, this bridge refers to a bridge of peace. Luckily, political wisdom can come to terms with common sense. Only the heart and the soul can make amends. [[Grumbles and interrogations in DK's benches.]] Pope Francis is a man of life and peace. May God grant that the good seed, which is now sown in Hungary, should fall on a good earth in our heart and in the heart of the world, sprout, blossom, and produce its good fruit! Welcome, Holy Father. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Dr. Agnes Vadai: Yes!]] [[12.20]]
u2023-04-17-30	On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will respond. There you go. You have the floor. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]]
u2023-04-17-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, Dear House, The old saying is that all roads lead to Rome, and we can see that the Pope Francis of Rome, on the other hand, leads most to Hungarians, Hungary, because in 2019 he visited one of the most visited places of pilgrimage of the Hungarians, in 2021 he was here at the International Eu-charistic Congress, although not all of them had the Holy Father, and this year he arrives on an apostolic journey to Hungary. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: The pedophilia within the Catholic Church, ask!]] I think this visit is important not only for Catholic people. In particular, the pope pays particular attention not only to Catholics when he arrives in a country, and not only for Christian believers, not only for Catholics, Protestants, Orthodoxs, but also for all well - feeling people, I think that a visit to the Pope is an important event, and for us Hungarians, it is a special pride that the Holy Father really visits us several times. Hungary is the first country to which the Holy Father will and will come several times, and I believe that this too can fill us with pride. Peace was the main message of the first papal visit to Hungary when, in 1052, IX. Leo tried to reconcile Andrew I and Andrew III during Bratislava Castle. Henry. After the change of regime, the end of the Cold War was indicated to us when II. Pope John Paul arrived, brought a sense of liberation after 40 years of communist oppression, and in 1996 we were also proud to see the Holy Father visiting the thousand-year-old Pannonhalm Archabbey celebrations celebrating his millennium. But there were popes in Hungary before their papal appointment or election. Thus, for example, when the Eucharistic Congress was held in 1938, Cardinal Pacelli, the later XII. Pius and Archbishop Montini, later VI. Paul was here in Hungary. In the late 1800s, there was Roncalli, who later was XI. He's a Pius. [[Sic!]] and XXIII respectively. Pope John also had two previous trips in Hungary, not as Pope. Karol Wojtyła II. And John Paul visited the community here, so as Archbishop of Krakow, he also visited Hungary before being Pope. We also know that a papal visit requires many and thorough preparations, so in 2022 the government appointed Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén in a government decision to prepare for the visit. Obviously, there is a huge interest not only in Hungary but also across borders in visiting the Pope, and therefore the law enforcement agencies and government agencies are well prepared for this visit. All ministries, according to the involvement of all State Secretariats, have completed their technical preparations, the police, TEK and the rescue services have been working for months to ensure that the visit of the Holy Father is undisturbed. Of course, for this occasion, the Swiss Guard and the Vatican City Gendarmerie will accompany the Holy Father, and their commanders will be here, but now they will take care of the Pope's safety in a dark suit, not in the fancy Swiss Guard uniform, but rather in a dark suit. MÁV, Volán and GYSEV provide free travel to anyone who wishes to meet the Holy Father. Throughout history, people have devoted months to going to Rome, visiting Vatican City, meeting the Holy Father, and rejuvenating their souls. We now have two weeks before the Pope comes and we can be a part of it. Others have spent their whole lives preparing to make such pilgrimage. We are lucky to have him here, he is coming to Budapest, and not for the first time in the Papp László Sportarena with young people, and in Kossuth Square all well-meaning Hungarian people are welcome to meet the Pope, and all Hungarian authorities have made their preparations. The symbol of the Pope's visit has already been mentioned by Deputy Prime Minister, his motto: Christ is our future. For weeks, months, at the end of every sacred Mass, let us pray for a prayer for a papal visit:. He is our sure future, he has come to live our lives in peace and unselfish love. That's why it's important for us, for all religious people, to visit the Pope. After NEK he said that he was touched by the Hungarians, that he was touched by the ecumenism he experienced in Hungary, the ecological awareness and family love he said that Hungarian legislation is similar to the French law, but more advanced, and said that the religious feeling is the life and life-giving sap of this nation, a nation so connected to its roots. As a result, he felt how closely the Hungarians and Christianity have been intertwined over the past period. The Pope is not afraid to express current messages. He also developed his own peace plan for the Russian-Ukrainian war, which defines us and our daily lives, where he said that both sides should stop attacking each other, sit at a negotiating table and discuss positions, that the parties to the conflict should not be armed by other countries. He said what Hungary says: let there be a ceasefire and peace! We hope that you will send a message from Budapest to the whole world. In these days, it is certain that the attention of all parts of the world will be focused on Budapest, Hungary. Allow me to conclude with a few lines of the song "Hungarian Prayer" written for the Pope's visit: "Be on our side, protect our country, our holy Father, you are peace in the time of war." Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-17-32	Mr Barna Pál Zsigmond, on behalf of Fidesz, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-04-17-33	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear House, We are well aware of the Hungarian people's position on the issue of war: the Hungarians want peace as soon as possible. It's a perfectly logical, in a way, the only logical point of view. If we want to stop the bloodshed, the destruction, then the first thing we need is a ceasefire, and then we need peace. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] And everyone who has a significant impact on the course of the war should be working to ensure peace as soon as possible, not that the war lasts as long as possible. And because the Hungarian people do not support the war, it is clear that the Hungarian government does not support it either. Unfortunately, however, we must acknowledge that not everyone is in this position. For example, the Democratic Government of the United States, which has the greatest impact on war in the Western world, is in favour of continuing it. In fact, there is a completely different picture of a war when it takes place in a neighbouring country and another if it is 6 to 7 thousand kilometers away. According to the news, the Americans have about a dozen professional soldiers in Ukraine, compared to this, people are being taken from Transcarpathia every day, not to mention that our economy is facing serious challenges from the war, and theirs is also profiting from it. So the fact that the American position is different is completely understandable, because they follow their own interests. The problem is that they want to force their own interests on us, and, ignoring the opinion of the Hungarian people, they want to force us into the war. However, the will of the Hungarian people is clear, so we will not allow ourselves to be dragged into the conflict, we will not carry weapons and we will stand on the side of peace. Dear House, Unfortunately, much of the European leadership is also on the side of the war, for various reasons the Central Europeans, most of the Westerners because of the Americans. There is a strong and increasingly general view in Brussels that European foreign policy making should simply be outsourced to America. The most important and significant exception from this is perhaps the French President, who follows the tradition that Europe should not imitate others, but start from its own interests. Unfortunately, no matter how big France is, this view is not decisive in Europe today. Dear House, Hungary is a reliable and committed member of NATO, and we meet all the obligations arising from it. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Hungary does, but the Hungarian government does not!]] We are one of the Member States who will meet the requirement of a 2-percent military expenditure as soon as possible. In our approach, NATO is an exclusive defence alliance and cannot be involved in any direct attack conflict with any external force. We therefore expect NATO to refrain from any statements, resolutions, gestures that may cause misunderstanding. Hungary is also pursuing a policy of national interest and ally duty within NATO. Dear Parliament, It is therefore somewhat understandable that there are countries that are in favour of war, because they have different perspectives, or because public opinion is divided and different strong opinions conflict with one another, but that only the Hungarian left can oppose the clearly dominant position in its own country, the overwhelming will of the people. In international relations, internal unity is important, so we have tried again and again to convince the left to take sides, not on the party of war, but on the side of peace, security and the Hungarian people; so far it has failed. Last time we presented a proposal for a resolution to the Parliament, which confirmed that Hungary does not want and will not participate in this war, does not carry weapons, and calls on the international community to mobilise its energies instead of supporting the war for the negotiations that bring about the ceasefire and bring peace. [[12.30]] We asked the left to support this proposal, to join the peace camp, but they refused, instead they tried to squeeze the text with all kinds of tricks. This is because it is not the representation of the Hungarian people on the left that is important, but that the wages arrive from abroad, that the dollars arrive, and that is what they think they can secure. However, I hope that someday you will realize that you cannot go against Hungarian people forever and politics against them. As long as the left is pro-war, we, the national side, are on the side of the Hungarian people, on the side of peace. [[Kálmán Olga: And Putin's side!]] Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-04-17-34	State Secretary Csaba Dömötör responds on behalf of the age. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-35	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Unfortunately, the situation with regard to the war remains that there is much more resolution to increase military activity and much less to open peace negotiations. More and more countries, most European countries, are sending more and more weapons, in line with the European Parliament's resolution. It really is no exaggeration to say that it cannot be ruled out at all that this conflict is expanding into a world war. Anyone watching the events of public life can see that the pressure on Hungary seems to be taking a step, and in some cases this pressure can be felt by our allies. Allied relations in our understanding mean that we agree on basic goals and values, but there may be cases from time to time, where there can be a difference of opinion between us, and unfortunately, war and arms can be like this. It is not exaggeration to ask that when we are asked to become more involved in the war conflict or even more sanctions, we should take into account Hungary's special situation and historical experience. We know very well what it's like to live in the threat of history. From our history, we also know what it means to fight for freedom and independence. We also know what Russian and Soviet oppression are like. We have also experienced it on the streets of Pest, and we also know what it is like to be classified in the Soviet sphere with decisions made above our heads. We also know well what we have, including a significant energy vulnerability, an addiction to more than 80% of Russian gas, which is covered by Article XX. We inherited it from the century, and it cannot be demolished overnight. We know something else that many people do not know outside our borders, or at least do not want to take into account, that there are hundreds of thousands of Hungarians living in Ukraine. They're part of the war. They didn't want it to be like this, but they're part of it now. Many of them have left their homeland, many have been enlisted, and are on the front line, and unfortunately not many have given their lives. Hungarians have given their lives in this war. This is what many countries calling for arms to send cannot say about themselves. They're the lucky ones. It's another thing to watch war from thousands of miles away and demand certain things from a few hundred kilometers away, and it's different from the threat of an air raid. Dear House, Over the past 13 years, we've been getting used to lectures, ratings, and pressure. We never gave in to this, and we did the right thing because the most important issues are always governed by the interests of the country and by the will of the electorate, which is what they say, and this is what they said last April that they did not want war. Come against us by any means, by any pressure, we still regard this as our guide. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-04-17-36	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr László Földi to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2023-04-17-37	Dear Parliament, János Bencze, Jobbik, Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Péter Jakab, independent; Balázs Barkóczi, DK; Zoltán Varga, DK; Judit Ráczné Földi, DK; Sándor Bodó, Fidesz; Dócs, Dávid Mi Hazank; Balázs Ander, Jobbik.
u2023-04-17-38	Dear Parliament, Now, at 12:34 p.m., we'll begin questioning. László Sebian-Petrovszki, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister for Economic Development:. Do you still think so? It's an address. Mr László Sebian-Petrovski has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-39	Thank you. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, A few days ago, we learned that despite all their promises, inflation did not decrease by 1 percent from February to March. This is much below the expectations of economic experts and is increasingly likely to fail to achieve the previously promised one-digit inflation target by the end of the year. If that were not enough, some economic analysts are already talking about the fact that, based on the March figures, we may not have seen the peak of inflation in Orbán yet, and that is the best. At the beginning of the year, you promised that inflation would be one-digit by December, but that would already require a substantial improvement. Don't you think, Secretary of State, that it's ridiculous to point out Brussels and sanctions, while there is already one-digit inflation in a large part of Europe, one-digit increase? Even in the war-torn Ukraine, inflation is lower than in Hungary, even there food prices are less expensive than in our country. Minister, Secretary of State, how long do the prices have to rise to see that there's a problem and do something? There's no doubt we're in such trouble because of your misguided economic policy, you're responsible for inflation in Orbán. Because of you, people don't dare put basic food in the basket because they're afraid of what's waiting for them at the register. It is clear that by now they have completely lost control of the country, and as long as you are in power, there will be no change here, there will be inflation in Orbán and historical food price increases with us. I therefore ask Mr Secretary of State, in the light of the figures in March, he still maintains that inflation will be 1 percent by the end of the year, when it is expected that they will do something and that the increase will decrease. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK and Momentum.]]
u2023-04-17-40	I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-41	Thank you, Madam President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The war in the neighbourhood and the sanctions taken in response have brought economic crisis, war inflation, price increases and uncertainty to Europe as a whole. I suppose you don't deny that. The government's aim is to reduce sanctioned inflation to one-digit by the end of 23 years. Despite all your predictions, we're on the right track. As indicated in advance, inflation peaked in January, and a moderate but trendy decline started following the January-February trend shift. (In the notary seat Sándor Szabó Replaced by Dr. Ágnes Vadai.) The government's expectations are fully consistent with the March inflation rate. The figures show that the improvement is moderate, but continuous and trendy. Our main task in this situation remains to protect families, pensioners, full employment and the reduction of the overhead for the average consumption. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Honourable Congressman, New consumer protection measures have also been taken. There is a consumer protection database that helps the public to purchase products at the best price. As a result, the stores are bidding on each other for price reductions, which are increasingly reflected in the data. As a result, food prices continued to grow in March. The government has so far taken some twenty measures to curb prices and protect the economy. These are listed here from time to time. In order to break sanctioned inflation, we have consulted with the major product councils in recent days, consulted and consulted representatives of the retail chains, so that we can all act more effectively against inflation. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-04-17-42	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! I welcome you all with love. We'll get back to work. Congresswoman Éva Sebők, representative of Momentum, would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. Who, on behalf of the Government, would take the political responsibility for endangering the lives of the people of Békés County? It's an address. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor. [[12.40]]
u2023-04-17-43	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Ministry, For the first time in July 2022, I was told by the constituents of Békés County that firewood has not been available in the county for months. As a result of the requests, we carried out a telephone survey, which confirmed the citizens' concerns about the shortage. In September 2022, the government announced the introduction of an official priced firewood programme. After that, we immediately registered at the points in Szeged and Gyula. For the first time, I had the opportunity to speak in Parliament on 10 October 2022 about the huge problem, because there is a shortage of firewood. Then Mr. Secretary of State replied quite aggressively, mocked me, and then sent propaganda to me. In any case, on 24 October 2022, I repeatedly drew attention to this in the framework of an interpellation, to which Minister of State Sándor Farkas replied that the tree was on its way at the end of last week, which has not arrived since then. From November 2022 almost every working day we sent to the Ministry that the temperature had dropped below freezing points, but there is still no wood at the points of sale. We warned the Ministry more than sixty times. Tree hasn't arrived until today. For the first time we received feedback from Szeged on 24 March 2023, where only Szeged, that they needed more data to issue the advance account. At the same time, wood was not promised there. There's been no reaction from Gyula ever since. Meanwhile, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Interior, Bence Rétvári, is very conveniently claiming that they do not know how many cold deaths have occurred in Békés County during the past heating season. Who takes the government's political responsibility for endangering the lives of the people of the Peaceful County? Thank you. [[A rare applause in the lines of Momentum and Dialogue.]]
u2023-04-17-44	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be heard from Deputy Minister Sándor Farkas, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-45	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you for your persistent interest in the firewood program. On this basis, you are not following the line of opposition cooperation to destroy the Hungarian forests, as they have even organised a demonstration to prevent this. That seems to be what you're hoping for for political gain, and now you're asking why you don't have enough firewood. I hope you feel that it is not easy to follow this 180-degree turn in a few months. The social firewood and fuel programme takes responsibility for the people in difficulty to whom you refer. In this season more than 200,000 cubic metres of wood were reached in this programme by the municipalities and through them the most deprived. The firewood programme did not provide for the possibility of a preferential purchase for those in need. Nearly half of the country's forests are privately owned, the timber that comes out of it is freely accessible to anyone at a price determined by the market. The Ministry of Agriculture has received in scale fewer complaints about the implementation of the entire programme than you have contacted; and we have been able to resolve all specific cases. This shows me that the programme has achieved its goal and is operating throughout the country. Unfortunately, it is an unspeakable experience that many people are registered, but in the end the purchase price has not been paid, the available wood has not been moved or even have wood-burning equipment. There was an area and a period where this ratio reached 70 percent of the claims. [[Eva Scars intervenes.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and And all I can say to your address question is that the responsibility lies with those who caused the current energy crisis and the war situation. Hungary's Government helps the Hungarian people to make a living despite the failed Brussels sanctioning policy, including by reducing their costs and by using the firewood program. [[Eve Scars: What isn't!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-04-17-46	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear House, Fellow Members! Member Sándor Szabó, representative of the MSZP, notary of the National Assembly, wishes to ask the Minister of Energy a question: what is to be expected in district heating panel apartments? It's an address. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2023-04-17-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Minister Gergely Gulyás has announced that there is a plan for it, but there is not yet a government decision to individually regulate energy consumption in district heating apartments. This is, in fact, a confirmation of last year's information that the government intends to speed up the supply of district heating apartments with an individual meter. In Hungary, the number of apartments with district heating is around 670 thousand. According to a survey last year, there are 134,000 apartments in which district heating per unit cannot be controlled according to individual needs. This was not a coincidence, however, since before 2010, there were still panel programmes supported by the budget, which supported, in addition to the installation of individual meters, window replacements, thermal insulation and the modernisation of heating systems, which you completely discontinued in 2010. Therefore, it is no coincidence that many of the Hungarian panel apartments are still waiting for a major renovation of energy, which would be extremely necessary with such energy prices. However, only support for the installation of individual meters suggests that the government plans something with district heating apartments, but what and when is not exactly known. The direction of the installation of individual meters may indicate that district heating charges may also be redesigned in the near future. Since nearly two million people live in teleheroes, of which more than 50,000 people live in Szeged, I think that it is essential for those affected to be informed by the government about future decisions. For this reason, I ask when they intend to make every district heating apartment a unique meter, who will pay for it; like gas and electricity tariffs, district heating will switch to an average consumption system in the future, if so, when it will be expected to happen; and when will new panel programmes for comprehensive energy renovation be launched. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2023-04-17-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard from Mr. Zsófia Koncz, Deputy Minister of State. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-49	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Left-wing parties tend to make it seem like the panel program is some kind of left-wing achievement, but for the sake of historical loyalty, I would like to point out that the first Orbán government launched the promotion of the renovation of industrialized panel apartments, and that proposals were published on an annual basis. After 2002, the MSZP-SZDSZ governments also reduced the amount of funds allocated to this project, and before 2010 many criticisms were received of the tender schemes, as they did not precisely assess the type of renovations and investments that the condominiums would need or have the resources necessary for self-esteem. In recent years, applications have been made on the subject that the Member has been asking. Several applications for panel buildings have been published. Without the need for completeness: the government also provided support for energy efficiency modernisation of district heating condos and housing cooperatives, the deployment of smart-cost dividers and the exchange of radiators. I think that, in the current times of energy crisis and sanctioning inflation in Europe, it is a very serious result that, thanks to the government's protective measures, the prices of gas, electricity and district heating remain unchanged for the Hungarian people throughout the year. As a result of the action taken by the Ministry of Energy, gas-based service providers essentially halved the district heating charges of the institutions as of January. In addition to enforcing security of supply, a recent government decision may reduce prices to even lower levels than non-residential consumers in the autumn. I would like to ask Mr President because our plan is to launch a comprehensive energy programme with a large part of EU funds to support the government's position in this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-04-17-50	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Róbert Dudás, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Minister:. What is the reason why petrol is becoming more expensive than the neighbouring countries? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, By answering this question, the Prime Minister has appointed Mr Csaba Lantos, Minister of Energy, who is responsible and competent according to the subject. At the request of the Minister, Deputy Minister Zsófia Koncz will answer the question. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-04-17-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, A year and a half ago, I asked the Prime Minister that the Hungarian Government immediately initiate negotiations with the European Commission in order to bring the VAT on fuels into a reduced VAT base and thus reduce it. [[12.50]] There hasn't been a single step on this subject since. We have reached the point where we can say that fuel is cheaper in all the countries around us than in Hungary. Even Austria has to be mentioned, it is cheaper even in Austria, so that, by the way, wages are much higher in Austria than in Hungary. And don't forget to mention MOL here, which, after the purchase of cheap oil, sold it dearly last year for record profits, earned a record profit of HUF 628 billion a year. Madam Secretary, if petrol and fuel are expensive, life is expensive. Over the last year inflation has been out of control, food inflation is out of control, you have abolished the cost reduction and you could say a number of other things and programs that have affected all Hungarians in their daily lives. Food inflation does not cross 30 percent anywhere in Europe, more than 42 percent in Hungary. Most eurozone countries have one-digit inflation, with 25 percent of us. And, please, do not blame everything on the war, because obviously it does not help in terms of economic processes, but in Ukraine, where there is actually war, inflation is lower than in Hungary. The Jobbik-Conservatives therefore ask the Hungarian Government to initiate negotiations with the European Commission without delay in order to reduce the price of fuels by reducing VAT, because it is in the interest not only of the motorists but also of all Hungarian people. And we ask you to enter into a strategic partnership with the Hungarian people, not with MOL. [[A voice from Jobbik: That's right. A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2023-04-17-52	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Zsófia Koncz, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-53	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, When the government introduced the gas stop, the left protested against it; and when it decided to drive it out, they also protested against it. I think it's a little hard to figure out in this process. In the autumn, I already had the opportunity to respond to a fuel-related interpellation, and I also drew the Prime Minister's attention to the fact that if Prime Minister had not managed to ensure that Russian oil sanctions would not apply to Hungary, we would now have serious supply problems; we would not be talking about how much fuel costs, but we would be talking about the fact that there is not enough fuel in the country. And I think it would also help if your party did not urge the imposition of sanctions in the context of sanctions. It should also be pointed out that Hungary is a low-energy country exposed to imports, so high energy prices affect fuel prices. Misguided sanctions have caused an international energy crisis, raising fuel and energy prices to historical heights. [[A voice from Jobbik's ranks, you caused it!]] The government guaranteed the lowest fuel prices in Europe for Hungarian families for 13 months with the maintenance of the petrol stop. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] This was possible until December 2022, but fuel security was no longer sustainable due to the entry into force of the EU's sanctioned oil policy, so the government decided to stop the price stop. In other words, gas prices have been in force since then in Europe and in Hungary. I hear you have a lot of comments on this. I would really like to point out once again that your party president has called for further sanctions in the European Parliament. I don't think we should forget that. [[Dr. László György Lukács: I bet you would also vote...]] I would like to inform you that under EU VAT Directive legislation, [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] energy fuels shall not be subject to a reduced rate. Mr President, we would like to ask you to contribute in future to the subsidies granted to Hungarian families in the Rezségvédelmi Fund. I am also very sorry that no amending budget has been voted on. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-17-54	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman Dávid Dócs, representative of Mi Hazan, would you like to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question, 'Do you want to put down the government's intention to sabotage the wells?' It's an address. Congressman David Dócs has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-55	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Deputy Minister, In his reply to last week's interpellation, he claimed that I made false claims about the problems in agriculture. I'm not in the habit of saying things that aren't real, so I'd like to come up with another problem. As we know, wells still ensure the livelihood of hundreds of thousands of people and the efficiency of agricultural productivity in Hungary. These wells have been tried for years by the Hungarian government and we hope that the image that follows will live only in our imagination, and that will never become a reality. However, in the case of agricultural wells, it is necessary to mention that even if it will not be taxed in the short term, but the examination of these wells, the authorisation procedure for these wells, is also a huge burden and a huge expense for farmers. I would like to bring my example here by asking for sandbacks, because we know that water on sandbacks is a particularly great treasure and that its exploitation is still costing a lot of money, and it does not need to be increased with additional costs. For this reason, I think that, in the context of a garden where increased energy prices still endanger their economic activity, they do not lack such additional burden. The examination of a well here on the sand bank doesn't matter that it can reach more than 2 million forints per piece, 75 metres or 100 meters deep. There are more than ten such wells in this garden where I have received my information, which is why this amount is quite simply incalculable and unpayable in the case of such a farmer. Therefore, my question to the honourable Secretary of State would be to give up the Government's intention to further undermine the Hungarian people, the Hungarian countryside, and to abandon its intention to give the wells such an amount of notification. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-04-17-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Deputy Minister Sándor Farkas, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-57	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Allow me to come up with a personal example. When I lived my life as an active farmer, a gardener, more than twenty years ago, I drilled the first well in my first garden, authorized and executed, that well cost HUF 1.8 million. It was the only way to do that back then. But if you don't comply with the law and you don't follow the law, unfortunately, there are cases where you don't benefit, you have to acknowledge that. There's got to be a law enforcement officer in this country. He did not now ask this question for the wells below 50 metres [50 m], but for the wells below 50 meters [50 m], which already concern other water layers, water bases, and water resources, which we have little knowledge of. Now, allow us to talk about these wells... agricultural wells. Anyone who deals with agriculture, whether it's a livestock farm, anything, in crop production these wells can only be operated legally, with a water license for 50 years. There's nothing new about that. We just got this. [[Dr. István Apáti: Don't cost that much.]] At the same time, I would like to note that the wells below 50 meters will be facilitated, and we will not install a water watch on it or anything special. The Prime Minister, I believe, said this once in the last week or in the previous period. We want to make this story easier. But once again, as a practicing farmer, let us accept it in order to protect our environment, in order to protect our water bases, that those layers... are no longer about the garden's little sprinkler story, but is indeed an economic activity, a serious economic activity. I am extremely sorry and I know this story, but I think that a compromise should be sought in this regard. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-17-58	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman Bence Tordai, representative of the Dialogue, would you like to ask the Minister of Energy a question:.. Is it worth the price of a single row of chairs in a medium-sized rural stadium so that 8600 Hungarian children can light with candles instead of candles in their family? It's an address. Congressman Bence of Turdai has the floor. Here you go. [[13.00]]
u2023-04-17-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Deputy Minister, In Hungary, millions live in energy poverty. For the past 13 years, the Fidesz government has not managed to resolve this situation, nor has it managed to manage it. Currently, 600,000 households are unable to use wired energy for heating, which means about 1.8 million people, one in five Hungarians; not in the third world, but in Hungary, in the 14th year of NER. But there is also a deeper box: 10,000 domestic households do not have wired electricity. More than 8600 Hungarian children grow up in a place where they have to light candles at night if they want to see homework, plate or face each other. But heating with candles is not only harmful to health, but also extremely expensive. Lighting a one-bedroom apartment with a candle costs more than covering the library building of Orbán's 60 Puszta castle with electricity. The solution, as the Light Bringers Foundation's program has shown for many years, is quite simple. It requires a lower shelf solar battery and a well-deserved battery, say, a used car battery, and a few tens of thousands of forints per apartment. We, the Dialogue Greens, have had enough of the 13-year-old government doing nothing, so we agreed to run Ultrabalaton, 211 kilometers, and link it to a community fundraiser. The link is there, by the way, during the live video. We would like to support the foundation in bringing the light to as many families as possible. And we would like this example to be sticky, and not only well-intentioned Internet users, but perhaps also the pro-government majority. That is why I ask the Secretary of State, Madam Deputy Minister, that the government is worth the price of a single row of chairs in a medium-sized stadium by taking the wired light to the family of 8600 children and taking the light away. I look forward to your reply.
u2023-04-17-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. We have already heard the answer from Congressman Zsófia Koncz, Deputy Minister of State. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-61	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You have raised a very, very important question about what we have done in recent years in order to help families, people who are in a serious financial and social situation. According to Eurostat data, the proportion of people living in severe material and social deprivation in Hungary decreased by more than 60 percent between 2015 and 21 years. The proportion of people under the age of 18 at risk of poverty or social exclusion in 2010 was 27.3 percent in the European Union and 38.7 percent in Hungary. Unbelievable! Over the last decade, this has fallen by 4.1 percent, 23.2% in the EU, and by 21 percent in Hungary to 17.7 percent, that is below the EU level. I think this is a huge achievement. And if we look at how we took over governance in 2010 and what was the situation with regard to jobs, that there were foreign exchange loans, that Hungarian families were hopeless, I think this is a very, very important issue. We support Hungarian families with the protection of privacy. In fact, last year the country's energy expenditure increased by HUF 4000 billion, and in the Rezségvédelmi Alapban we made a commitment to maintain the protection of Hungarian families. That's 181,000 forints a month. When you think about what that means in six months: about 1 million, over 1 million forints. This is how we were able to help the Hungarian families. Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, had a statement that you could imagine that prices on the retail market could be allowed to be passed on to the general public. I think that this is not a good direction, and I think that Hungarian families should be supported under all circumstances. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-17-62	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman Máté Kanász-Nagy, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of Technology and Industry a question: It's an address. I would like to inform you, Mr President, that Deputy Minister of Energy, Deputy Minister Zsófia Koncz, will respond. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-04-17-63	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Madam Deputy Minister, The transformation of the cost reduction has put thousands of families in difficulty, and the seven-fold gas price above average consumption represents a brutal increase. Many consume more than average because they live on a luxury level, but because their house is uninsulated, the heat runs away on windows and the heating is outdated. Larger households, too, are in trouble where generations live together. We agree that the reduction of the rent had to be touched, because it was not sustainable from a financial or environmental point of view. However, it is very difficult to reduce climate change by supporting fossil energy with public funds of HUF 1300 billion. The reduction of costs has encouraged waste, but has not helped investments in energy efficiency. However, it is incomprehensible why the social aspect remains behind, why people in need are left on the side of the road. Why support under-average consumption in the upper tenteens, while poor people living in outdated houses can pay the sevenfold price. Where's social policy? A real, sustainable reduction in overhead costs can only be achieved through the deep renovation of buildings. With insulation, the replacement of windows and heating systems, the energy needs and costs of buildings could be reduced by at least half. With the renovation of 130,000 apartments a year, 420 thousand tons of CO2 could be avoided, and the air in our settlements would be much better. So far, the government has been very limited in supporting building insulation. At least now, as a result of the increase in costs, is there a comprehensive Deep Renewal Programme that will reach both the childless and the needy families? I look forward to your reply, thank you very much. [[A round of applause in the dialogue.]]
u2023-04-17-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Deputy Minister Zsófia Koncz, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-65	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to point out that the Hungarian government is making an incredibly great effort to keep energy affordable in Hungary. We can guarantee the lowest electricity and gas prices in the European Union by maintaining demand to average consumption. I have just explained how much financial help this is for families, 181,000 forints a month. You also mentioned the level of energy use. In this regard, I would like to highlight two figures. It is important to note that in the last month the country has used 25.8 percent less natural gas than in the same period of the previous year. In March, the decline in electricity consumption of 11 months continued, with a rate of 7.9 percent this time. The government also took part in this and started saving on itself: from September to March, it reduced the consumption of natural gas by nearly half of some central state offices. I say this only in the light of the fact that the Member here referred to the level of consumption. I think that this data should be highlighted. With regard to modernisations and renovations, let me point out that more than 300,000 families have received support in the context of home renovation support over the past period. Nearly half of this was used to invest in energy efficiency. In addition, a programme for the construction and modernisation of residential solar systems will continue, one quarter of which will be dedicated specifically to heating modernisation. I think that these programmes are of great help to Hungarian families. I ask you to accept this, too, Congressman. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-17-66	Thank you very much, Madam Deputy Minister. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman Alpár Gyopáros, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister of Construction and Transport:. How is the construction of the M83 fast-moving road going and when is it expected to be delivered to passengers? It's an address. Mr Alpár Gyopáros has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Between Győr and Pápa, due to the long-awaited and unfortunately large number of accidents in this section, a very important government investment is being made: the construction of the double lane 83 motorway, which offers a huge advantage for the whole region, and even for those travelling between Győr and Lake Balaton, will be a huge help. Its importance is not only huge in terms of road safety, comfort and accident prevention, but also makes small towns and villages attractive from an economic point of view to businesses. [[13.10]] From my own experience, I can say that the M85 and M86 motorways, which affect my constituency to the same extent, are now a completely new perspective and provide a completely different standard of living for people living in the surrounding settlement. Such a development will also give new impetus to villages, businesses and the whole region. The possibilities of Rábáköz have increased dramatically by passing these two motorways, so there is a great expectation of passing the route 83 between Győr and Pápa. I am sure that the people living in Tét and surrounding settlements, these settlements have been facing even more spectacular development thanks to the development of the Hungarian village programme, the completion of road 83 and the rural-friendly policy of the national government. The stages of 83 are complete, we see this with our own eyes, the work is going on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. On a daily basis, however, I get questions from people living in the surrounding settlement; the locals are excited to see developments and take possession of the new safe passage. I therefore ask the Honourable Secretary of State when the motorway section of 83 is due to be completed and handed over to road users. Thank you for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-17-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Péter Agh. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2023-04-17-69	Honourable Congressman, We'd like to thank you for asking. I would like to point out that the development of the region and the Győr-Moson-Sopron county is of particular importance for the Hungarian government, and the construction of main road 83 is also an eloquent example of this work. Before I begin to answer your question, allow me to show you with some figures what the government has done for Győr-Moson-Sopron County since 2010. Since 2010, more than 231 kilometers of new roads or road development have been completed by the government in the county, with a total value of HUF 513 billion. Among these investments is the construction of the M86 and the M85, mentioned by you in your constituency, which has really contributed to the increase in the standard of living of people living in the region and to the promotion of mobility. Nine projects are planned in the county, with a total value of HUF 1.49 billion. In addition, the construction of four projects under construction, including the two-banding of Highway 83, is worth nearly HUF 200 billion. Although war and sanctioned inflation hinder many investments in the country, I have good news for Highway 83. Highway 83 is worth more than 100 billion in total at a length of 33.7 km. The technical readiness of the investment is currently 74 percent, the completion of the project is planned to take place in the autumn of this year, and the development of the 83 main road to two lanes is expected to be completed by the end of this year. On the new road section, thanks to the speed allowed for 110 km/h, the current 55-minute travel time is reduced by about 20 minutes between Pápa and Győr and is expected to cease congestion in Győr. We are confident that during the remaining period the investment will not be affected by any constraining circumstances. Thank you for asking, and please accept my answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-17-70	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman Imre Vejkey, a representative of KDNP, wishes to ask the Minister for Energy:. How can we ensure the maintenance of the Renewal Fund? It's an address. Congressman Imre Vejkey, please. We'll wait for him to put the microphone on. I'll ask for time accordingly...
u2023-04-17-71	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, In response to the energy crisis and the runaway inflation caused by the prolonged war and the failed sanctions in Brussels, the government decided last year to present this year's draft budget to Parliament as a budget for the protection of electricity. In order to limit the burden on Hungarian consumers of the harmful consequences of the sanctioned energy crisis, within the budget thus adopted, the Rezségvédelmi Alap was established with a HUF 670 billion framework, the main sources of which were and are the extra-profit groups. By the end of last year, the ever-increasing war has made economic conditions even more drastic, making it necessary to adjust the budget accordingly and, together with the strengthening of the Renewal Fund. The government therefore decided to quadruple the framework of the fund and to submit a corresponding proposal amending the budget law to the Parliament, which was adopted by the Parliament at the end of March. Energy supply to the population at protected prices is of particular importance in this critical environment, when energy prices are skyrocketing everywhere in Europe and inflation is running out to the extremes. In this situation, the Hungarian government decided in a unique way throughout Europe not to pass on the increased energy prices to people until average consumption. Thanks to the regulatory protection system that has been maintained since 2013, Hungarian families continue to pay the lowest energy prices in the EU. We believe it is vital that, as in recent years, the government can continue to provide protection for all of us against the rise in drastic and unpredictable energy prices on the world market, thereby ensuring the financial security and energy supply of families. On this basis, I am asking how to ensure the maintenance of the Renewal Fund.
u2023-04-17-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard from Deputy Minister Zsófia Koncz, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-73	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Last year, when the Parliament discussed this year's budget, we hoped that there would be peace as soon as possible and that the war would not demand so much sacrifice. The Government of Hungary has consistently been on the side of peace ever since and, unfortunately, there are still two of us in Europe with the Vatican. The war has radically changed economic conditions. It was necessary to act quickly because the EU's response to the war skyrocketed energy prices. In 2022 the Hungarians took HUF 4000 billion out of their pockets. According to the latest figures, Hungarians paid the lowest electricity and gas prices in Europe in March as well. For electricity, almost double the Hungarian price in Bucharest, more than twice the price in Bratislava and Warsaw, more than three times the price in Vienna, more than four times the price in Prague; twice the price in Zagreb for natural gas; more than twice the price in Bratislava, Bucharest and Warsaw, more than three times the price in Sofia, more than four times the price in Ljubljana, more than six times the price in Prague, more than seven times the price in Vienna. According to MVM, 65 and 80 percent of the public electricity bills issued from August to February contained only reduced amounts; that is, a significant proportion of Hungarian households, on average three-quarters, did not exceed the average consumption value. The government is detracting from the increased benefits of industries and large companies producing extra-profit in the current situation and referring it to the Renewal Fund. I would also like to thank the Member and the KDNP fraction for their support for the amendment to the 2023 budget, which raised the amount of the Rezségvédelmi Fund to HUF 2600 billion, which is also a way of protecting Hungarian families in the current situation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-17-74	Thank you very much, Madam Deputy Minister. Dear House, Fellow Members! Mr Balázs Barkóczi, representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior a question: 'Does their principles prohibit people from asking about professional tasks? It's an address. Mr Balázs Barkóczi has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-75	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Mr. Secretary. According to a representative survey involving four thousand teachers, their ideas on the abolition of the status of civil servant and the assessment of performance that you have secretly tested are not very successful; they are only 7-8 percent of teachers; this can be called insufficient. And please, Mr Secretary of State, do not say that only those who do not comply with the performance assessment are dissatisfied, since you do not think that up to 8 percent of teachers are eligible for the field. Mr. Secretary. Although you have promised to develop an individualised peer review system taking into account the situation of schools and teachers, it seems that this is a single central system with a minimum margin of manoeuvre. There are no individual development plans, and the school can hardly comment on the scoring, because most of it is based on centrally defined criteria, including those outside the scope of teachers; because if there are no or very few tablets in one school, then it is not expected that the teacher will use it routinely, or that if only 10 percent of teachers have money to continue training, how would the rest meet these requirements? [[13.20]] Moreover, certain requirements, such as the absence of students, dress or national commitment, have nothing to do with the competence of teachers. I think you know that as well as I do, which is why they hide in which institutions they test this benchmarking system. Mr. Secretary. Didn't you think that a professional job in public education with a police general, a lawyer and a history teacher who never taught at school should have been discussed with some public education experts? Mr. Secretary. Currently 16,000 teachers and 14,000 staff directly assisting in educational work, that is, 30,000 people are missing from the system, and 4 000 people have already said that they will not sign their new contract if the status law enters into force. After that, I have only one question: how many thousand people do you want to drive out of schools and the country? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much.
u2023-04-17-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-77	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You misdirected your speech. Your Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány said that you can leave here. [[Balázs Barkóczi: That's not an answer!]] And it was your prime minister, Ferenc Gyurcsány who dismissed 15,000 teachers in Hungary. So I'll send these words back to you and discuss them with your party president. As far as the benchmarking system is concerned, we also developed textbooks that were first tested in schools for three years, then finalised, and we do nothing else than benchmarking; first we look at how it works in a narrower circle, how the textbook works for teachers and students, and here the rating system serves the goal that we want: a higher education, so that those who do more perform better, have a higher salary. That's why we started this in a few dozen schools, and we really want to have the results of the trial, and we want to introduce it more widely. There's more to it than that. One part is that the educator himself can tell the director what he considers important in his own class in the next year, what he considers important in his own subject, what he wants to achieve in school; and if he achieves what he sets for himself at a meeting with the director, in which he can obviously involve the head of the professional community, then this will increase his salary. On the other hand, there are general, objective aspects that can be used in many schools, but they are all tailored to the school framework; because there is a school where performance will be better focused on helping break-ups, how the catch-up program works, and where talent-care, how many races each starts. The number of hours is objective everywhere: 22 hours, 24 hours or 26 hours are taught by a teacher? Obviously, the 24-hour teacher should earn more than the 22-hour teacher, and the 26-hour teacher should earn more than the two, so those who spend more hours on students should receive higher salaries, and those who care more about children than the class should receive higher salaries. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] This is what the proposal that we have been working on in consultation with the teachers is about, and which you are attacking here in Parliament. Thank you very much.
u2023-04-17-78	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Brenner Koloman, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister for Culture and Innovation:. Does the Fidesz government support outdoor theatres? It's an address. Congressman Brenner Koloman has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-79	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, For the Jobbik-Conservatives, culture is a national foundation, because we know and believe that culture is one of the most important binders that keeps Hungarian society together. The cultural sphere has had a very difficult time, on the one hand, because of the closure of the coronal virus epidemic. In this period, there has already been a good cooperation between stone theatres and open-air theatres, because for a very wide range of actors only open-air stages gave the opportunity to perform. In addition, in the last winter, cultural institutions have been temporarily closed in many settlements due to the Fidesz overhead increase and tax revenues from local governments, and the lectures have also been suspended for most of the time. Moreover, none of the individual applications for performing arts organisations is dedicated specifically to outdoor theatres. Here, the president of the Association of Outdoor Theatres indicated that even though it is possible to apply for programs, the summer events that are here are not yet well planned. Here, about outdoor theatres, it may be worth saying that throughout Europe there is a rare offer of outdoor performances in Hungary, and these, as I said, are operated together with festivals and other performances that are extremely important to local communities. They play a very important role in boosting cultural tourism and organising local community life. That is why I am asking the honourable secretary of state that the current Fidesz government intends to modify the aid scheme in such a way that outdoor theatres are also properly assisted. Thank you for your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2023-04-17-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. The response from the government will be given by Deputy Minister, Secretary of State, Eszter Vitalyos. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-81	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The short answer to your question is yes, the government supports outdoor theatres. I must say, it is encouraging to me that, if there is not much, but we may have a common starting point where you say that culture is also a national foundation for your party. The cultural government starts from the Kodály creed that culture cannot be inherited, the culture of the ancestors will soon evaporate if every generation does not get it over and over again. We work with the cultural government to make culture accessible, that is to say, everyone can have equal access to cultural programs, cultural services regardless of where the country lives. Open-air theatres also play a very important role in this value and community creation. We also agree, honourable Member, that the pandemic has put all actors in the cultural sphere in a very difficult situation; it is no coincidence that in 2018, approximately 70 percent of the total revenue in the sector came from state aid, this amount went up above 80 per cent by 2021. I would like to draw your attention, Mr President, to the fact that an application with a budget of HUF 170 million for the implementation of the professional programmes of non-qualified open-air theatres has been published on the website of the Human Resources Support Manager, and, contrary to your statement, the open-air theatres in the register have the opportunity to participate in a tender with a budget of HUF 4 billion for performing art organizations. This condition may not have been specifically included in the application, they were not named, but they can apply for it in the same way as the others. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] I stress, therefore, that on the basis of the invitation to tender, open-air theatres could apply for all the elements, all the categories of this display and submit these project proposals by 14 April. Thank you very much for your patience. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-17-82	Thank you very much, Madam Deputy Minister. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman István Szabadi, representative of Mi Hazank, wishes to ask the Ministry of Interior: why is the minimum wage not due to care for adult relatives all day? It's an address. Congressman István Szabadi has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-83	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, According to KSH data, in 2021 74 thousand care-givers and 53,000 family members cared for their permanently ill or severely disabled family members. According to experts, we can actually talk about ten times more than half a million home care providers in Hungary, but because of strict and restrictive rules, up to 13 percent of them are entitled to some form of care allowance. Home care is cheaper and more convenient for the state, thus replacing the development of the institutional system, and the state's responsibility in the area of social care was further reduced by the amendment of the social law last autumn. Of course, it is welcome that, from 1 January 2019, the children's home care fee, namely the weed, was introduced for home care workers, which will be adjusted to the minimum wage from 2022. However, more than 30,000 people have been receiving an unfairly low care fee for caring for their adult relatives all day for decades. This year, two thirds of caregivers receive a monthly gross care fee of between HUF 45,000 and HUF 82 thousand depending on the patient's condition, representing 20-35 percent of the minimum wage. [[13.30]] During the 13 years of their governance, the basic amount of the care fee increased by only 60 percent, which was almost entirely taken away by inflation. Home caregivers are driven into poverty because they are unable to do work, spiritually, physically, and financially, because of the 24 - hour ministry. In interpreting the questions of your civil initiatives, I would like to ask the Secretary of State for his reply on why they make a discriminatory distinction between those who care for their loved ones. Why is the care fee below the minimum wage? Why can't you get a nursing allowance with a pension? Why is the relationship between home care providers not considered to be an employment relationship? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-04-17-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard from Deputy Secretary Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-85	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think we all agree that those who care for their children or other relatives at home, because obviously it is also best for the person who is at home, because everyone likes to be the best in the family environment, and this also means such a time strain that the person cannot work alongside them, then it is important that the amount of these benefits, the cost of caring for children, is increased. When we started our government, even at the waist of it was 15 billion forints, which the state had then spent on this, the budget of the approved .23 is now not 15 but 91 billion forints for this purpose, because we have gradually expanded the range of those who are entitled to it, and we have created new categories. For example, in addition to the basic and the increased amount, we have established the premium for care, we have made it clear that it is also a health insurance relationship, it is also included in pension periods, so it is as if there were full work, so it is included in these social security benefits. Obviously, since a part of someone's working time is likely to drop out, who has been nursing their child at home for at least 20 years, we also provide a pension supplement for him. And then in 2018, we decided to introduce the children's home care fee, so in 2010 the person who cared for the child at home received 37 thousand forints, and now the same person receives 232 thousand forints, so this has been a significant increase over the last few years. But unfortunately, when we voted on this, your fellow political groups, who were already members of the Parliament, were indeed in the formation of another party, but they were engaged in taking the pulpit from President Latorcai in Parliament, not voting in favour of this proposal. No, you didn't vote for it, because you were just sirening and self-parking, and it wasn't so important to the parliamentary representatives of our country at the time, when they were better Members to support this proposal. It would have been better if they had supported the children's home care fee and the 30 percent care fee increase. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-17-86	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Ferenc Dávid, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister for Economic Development a question: "When? It's an address. It is for Congressman Ferenc David. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Mr President, If you were to find out from Martin the Great's economic statement, you might think that the anti-inflationary vaccine is working and that they have actually managed to reduce the increase. However, from February to March, inflation in Orbán did not decrease by 1 percent, i.e. I do not understand what they are so proud of. The average inflation of over 25 per cent or the increase in food prices of more than 40 per cent? I'm going further, we don't even need numbers: enough to go into the shops to see that there is no inflation vaccine, orbán inflation is still rampant. Many families and pensioners face it every day, what the famous family-friendly government has done to them: shopping is getting harder, bread is becoming a luxury item, and they can't afford what they did a year ago. Yet, you are not doing anything to help people. Pensions have been devalued, and increases in salaries do not compensate for price increases. Just because you talk about improvements and drive people crazy doesn't make food cheaper, and the Hungarians don't have any more money. According to the shadow government, real help is needed, to reduce VAT on basic foods, to correct pensions on a quarterly basis and to abolish extra taxes on trade. You caused the economic and social crisis, and as long as you are in government, inflation in Orbán is with us. But at least pretend you're interested in the fate of the Hungarians. Therefore, today the shadow government remains Hungary's only hope of making shop shopping affordable again. I ask: when can Hungarian families and pensioners expect real help from inflation in Orbán? Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-04-17-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Deputy Minister János Fónagy, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-89	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The war in the neighbourhood and the sanctions imposed on it have brought economic crisis, war inflation, price increases and uncertainty across Europe. The government's aim is to reduce sanctioned inflation to one-digit by the end of 23 years. We are on the right track, we believe that inflation peaked in January, and after the turn of the January-February trend, the decline started. [[A voice from Jobbik's ranks: Wow!]] Food prices increased by 44.8 percent in December, which decreased to 44 in January, 43.3. in February, 42.6 in March. Domestic energy inflation also decreased, after 55.5 percent in December in January 52.4, in February 49, in March 43.1 We see the same in the case of fuels: in January 26,3 and in March 23 percent, the increase was slow, but trendy, apparently decreasing. Our most important task is to continue to protect families, pensioners, full employment and reduction of the overhead for average consumption in the economic situation affected by sanctions. Otherwise, the stores are bidding on each other to announce price reductions as a result of consumer protection measures and consumer protection database. I would like to emphasise that inflation is not decreasing, but that we are reducing it. So far, the government has taken some twenty measures, the effects of which are convincingly proven by the above-mentioned sequences, apart from you. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-17-90	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Construction and Transport a question:, Was it difficult for taxi drivers only to be born? It's an address. Mr László György Lukács, Head of Group, has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-91	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The economic crisis, Orbán inflation, high petrol prices have put everyone in a difficult situation, small and medium-sized enterprises' incomes have declined steadily, many of them live from month to month. Except for the taxi drivers, they're not just trying to survive like other businesses, but they're actually winning over the past period. They were the ones who could refuel cheaply during the partial abolition of the communist-style fuel cap. They became the privileged ones in the faceless and fast narrowing of the cadaver rule, but they were the ones who managed to get a 50 percent increase from the decision-makers thanks to the clever advocacy, in fact by extortion. More and more people are asking the question all over Budapest: was it difficult for taxi drivers to be born? And well-foundedly, because the concessions made against them do not require nor do they have any number. In the meantime, without competition, the population is becoming increasingly expensive to taxi, thanks to the government's ability to crowd out competing, innovative and modern freight-sharing companies, such as Ubert. Dear Secretary of State, The Jobbik-Conservatives consider it important to give priority to business support, which provides them with low taxes, simple administration and decent living. But in addition to all this, we are committed to ensuring that businesses operate competitively, not by excluding or restricting competition, or extorting services to infinitely expensive. The current taxicab regulation is one-sided and unfair to the population. In a normal country, such a regulation could not have been established. With all this in mind, I ask the honourable Secretary of State: why is the current Fidesz government spectacularly privileged with taxi drivers at the expense of the residents, and when will this end? Why does the current Fidesz government consider the support of taxi drivers more important than other businesses? Are you planning to amend the rules on taxi drivers? And ultimately, why and how long does the current Fidesz government allow taxi drivers to extort their prizes? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[13.40]]
u2023-04-17-92	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. We will hear the answer from the Secretary of State Bálint the Great. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2023-04-17-93	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I strongly reject the accusations that you have made here in your question, because the government does not distinguish at any level between Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises in terms of their support, and we are even doing everything we can to ensure that businesses can not only operate in this difficult global economy, but work well, whether it is taxi companies or any other business. There is nothing more evidence of this than the fact that the government has so far taken 20 measures to break sanctioned inflation, to protect families, businesses and jobs. We extended the interest rate stop to loans from small and medium-sized enterprises, supported energy intensive companies with hundreds of billions of HUF, announced the factory rescue program, the Széchenyi-Kártya programme, and more. After all, the accusation that the government would make a distinction between individual undertakings is in no way true. With regard to the rules for the provision of personal taxi services, the most recent regulation was published on 19 October 2022 in the form of a government decree. In this regulation, we have, among other things, created the legal conditions for taxi operators to participate in the public transport service. But the regulation also includes a number of restrictions. We have tightened the number of taxi licences so that unreliable businesses can be effectively filtered out of the market, or, for example, we have tightened the conditions for the operation of taxi operators. As far as Ubert is concerned, if the question of when Uber can return to Hungary, the answer I can give you is that at any time on the part of the government. The government has never banned this service, only the government has asked that the consumer protection, quality and, above all, safety rules that we require of taxi drivers should also be nice to comply with. Again, I would like to ask the honourable Member not to try to make the Government look bad by using incorrect information by political slogan, and please refrain from making any distinction between Hungarian businesses. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-17-94	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! The next speaker of the DK Group is Mr Zoltán Komáromi, who wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior a question: It's an address. Congressman Zoltán Komáromi has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, They have had 13 years to prove that you really care about the Hungarian people, their lives, their health and well-being, which their propaganda puts in our face every day with our money. Instead, all darker clouds are on the edge of health care. Ayka had to be shut down and the emergency department was finally opened due to public protest. The conditions in Szolnok, Tatabánya, Kalocsa, Mosonmagyaróvár, Mohács, Szentes are unsustainable in the obstetrics and children's classes of hospitals. Last week, the mayor of Tátoraljaújhely made a statement in response to a cry for help demanding that their hospital function be maintained. Compared to 2009, the number of unfilled GPs increased by 4.5 times, and 8 times the number of unfilled GPs increased. The number of children living in them has increased from 13,000 to 112,000. The rate of over 65 GPs has increased to 37 percent, making the system unsustainable at any time. There is a dramatic increase in drug shortages, with about 1,500 medications in vain for patients in the pharmacy. Households have to spend about 85 percent more on medicine this year than they did 13 years ago. Life expectancy at birth was lower in 2021 than in 2010. Mr. Secretary. We should wake up and start steering. Will the health of Hungarians improve by trying to kill the Medical Chamber in 30 hours? failed; or were they pointing back to the government 16 years ago, when health indicators were otherwise better than today? No! Today, the shadow government remains Hungary's only hope that health will not be controlled by a retired police general, accompanied by the dilettantism of its State Secretarys, but by calling on professionals interested in recovering health care, with whom this government has so far refused to talk about dragging our health back from the very edge of the abyss. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-04-17-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-97	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Any sentence in your speech is an eloquent proof of DK's entire rhetoric. So how he tried to prove his own excellence, he tried to bring one data, because he couldn't bring any other data: life expectancy at birth. This was 74 years in 2010 and increased to 76 years in 2019. In all the countries of the world, unfortunately, because of the epidemic, there was a setback in this. Therefore, you chose the year when there was an epidemic in all countries of the world, and life expectancy was reduced everywhere, and you tried to compare it to the fact that in a year without an epidemic, your epidemiology indicators were better than in a year affected by a pandemic. That's all DK knows, and you said that you had a life expectancy of 74,3 years... then 74,1; but the year before that, when there was no epidemic, and the normal number worth considering was 76,1 years. That is all you know, honourable Member, that you will try to present the situation in such a way that you may be able to make some progress. But no, honourable Member, during our governance, thank God, life expectancy has increased by two years. Unfortunately, there was an epidemic that had consequences. This could also happen because we spend 1600 billion forints more on health care than you do. It could have happened because you wanted to legalize the gratuity money, but we led out the gratuity money, not because we raised the doctors' wages by two and a half times. When you were on the government, the income of a GP practice was 860,000 forints, now 3 million 87 thousand. Since then, we have introduced screening tests, colon screening, rectal screening, HPV vaccination for free, we have offered it to everyone. On the other hand, what kind of health program did you say in the election campaign? To shut down half the hospitals. Imre László, too, you talked about this; that they would make health care pay again. Here in Parliament, Ferenc Gyurcsány confirmed it, and you have since returned the visit fee and hospital daily allowance. Now, people don't ask for this anymore, and they won't ask for it in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-17-98	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister responsible for culture and innovation:. Will the government support the wider spread of knowledge? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Mihály Varga, Minister of Finance, who is competent and competent on the subject, will answer the question on behalf of and at the request of Mr András Tállai, Deputy Minister of State. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-04-17-99	Mr President, Dear House, The community of Jobbik-Conservatives is the "Save the Books"! When developing its program, it was confronted with the fact that while books are correctly taxed with a VAT rate of 5 per cent, in the case of e-books, we encounter a 27 per cent key typical of software. This causes serious problems in the field of publishing, many publishers suffer difficulties and in many cases payments in the field of e-books, since the purchase of their royalties can be a lot higher than traditional permits, and we see that paper publications are often placed on the market in a very low number of copies, and even often avoid typical bookshop sales, so that even less people can get the knowledge. On the other hand, if e-books could be issued with a tax rate such as their traditional counterparts, this market disturbance would be eliminated, and the knowledge transmitted by books could spread even more widely, and would be given a chance to maintain at least its position in relation to the distribution of information only on the Internet. It can be seen that these publishers have faced enormous difficulties in recent years, that the fall in circulation seemed almost unstoppable, so one way to preserve their positions could be to expand their portfolio and to make e-books more profitable. The philosophical question is that after the work of such difficult publishers, the Hungarian government wanted to achieve higher tax revenues, from 27 percent VAT rates, if you like, to gain extra profit in cases where small or medium-sized publishers struggle for their existence. [[13.50]] Our proposal does not require massive budgetary resources, but it is more symbolic. The question arises: has the government opened up to support the spread and dissemination of Hungarian knowledge? Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2023-04-17-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Mr András Tállai, Deputy Minister of State. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-101	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You like to propose VAT reductions here in Parliament, not only on this subject, but also on a number of other issues. I would add that this is a natural opposition behaviour, that we are proposing to Parliament to reduce taxes. However, if we look at the involvement of you and your party in Parliament when we vote on tax reductions and VAT reductions, then your activities are quite shady. It is false, because the last time a VAT reduction was voted in 2016 here in Parliament, then in relation to the VAT on pigmeat, it was supported. Then, in 2017-18-19, there was a tax reduction proposal in Parliament, which was, say, basic food, not about the e-book, but you could no longer support. So, once you support the VAT reduction, once you don't support it. I understand you're making a suggestion. I am pleased to hear you say that printed books, newspapers and periodic publications are taxed in preferential VAT rates, and it is true that this is not the case in the case of the e-book. This was considered by the Government at the time and concluded that the production, storage and distribution of printed books is a much more complex and cost-effective task than electronic books, which is why the printed book received a reduced VAT rate, while the production and trade of e-books is less resource-intensive, so the goods are much more favourable than the higher VAT content. This is why it was decided that e-books should remain in the non-preferential VAT key category. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-04-17-102	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman Balázs Ander, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister for Economic Development: When will the cheap sale of Hungarian workers be completed? It's an address. Congressman Ander Balázs has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The figures of inflation in Orbán show a deterrent picture, which are worse than Ukraine's war-torn Ukraine, by the way. In the first three months of the year, a decline of over 25% was observed compared to the same period last year. We do not see the trend turn, so the Hungarians' money is burning at terrible speed. Let us say that many two thirds of our countrymen do not have the latter, unfortunately they do not have the savings. Let me be so nationalist that Eurostat's 2021 data shows that they already consume more in Romania, so they live better than we do. That the absurd production leading to the world's top 10 food price increase group, that is to say, the almost 50 percent food price explosion in a country with excellent agricultural and food capabilities, how it makes the picture worse, is better not to think about it. There are many reasons why we've come this far. One is the sociopath, neoliberal dogma, declared by the current Fidesz government, which sees the competitiveness of our country in the cheap labour force, in the exploitation of Hungarian people. Last year, with taxes and contributions, we had EUR 10.7 per hour of average labour costs, compared with EUR 15.6 per hour in Slovakia, making more money and spending more on human capital systems. Low Hungarian wages, on the other hand, mean small pensions, as well as declining health care, education and a weak internal market, and this seal the fate of small Hungarian entrepreneurs producing most of them in Hungary. The community of Jobbik-Conservatives believes that in a normal country, self-reliant citizenship is the backbone of society. So I ask: how will inflation in Orbán, which eats Hungarian people's money, be a single digit by the end of the year? When will they finally abandon the cheap selling of Hungarian workers in Latin America and the policy of hell? Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2023-04-17-104	Thank you, Congressman. The answer will be given by Deputy Minister János Fónagy, State Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2023-04-17-105	Dear House, Honourable Congressman, In the difficult situation caused by war and sanctions, the government has so far taken some 20 measures to curb prices, protect families, pensioners and the economy. So inflation is not falling, but we are reducing it. In January 23, inflation peaked, and then, contrary to his claim, the decline started after the turn of the trend in February. The trend is good, but we agree that the pace of this should be accelerated. The aim is to reduce inflation to one digit by the end of 23. The competition authority action against food price increases consumer prices; food prices rose by 48,8 percent in December to 44, 43,3% in February and 42,6% in March. The trend is therefore clear, and the pace really needs to be accelerated. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: This is not a trend turnaround!]] The government continues to work towards full employment and building a work-based economy. In 2010, unemployment was 11 per cent; in 23 it is 3.6 per cent, which, according to all international statistics, is virtually full employment. In January 23, wages continued to rise; in one year, gross earnings increased by 16.1 percent; compared to 2010, the average earnings increased by 2.6 times. The measures are working, and real wages in Europe have only increased in Hungary and Bulgaria. In Hungary, investors are basically looking for skilled and reliable workers, not cheap. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-04-17-106	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear House, Fellow Members! That concludes the questions. Now it's time for immediate questioning. Dear House, Congressman Lajos Oláh, a representative of DK, Vice-President of Parliament, wishes to ask the Attorney General an immediate question:. Why is nothing happening with regard to electoral fraud in Teresa and Erzsébetváros? It's an address. Mr. Vice President, Due to the absence of Chief Prosecutor Tibor Ibolya, Deputy Attorney General has given him the right to reply. I respectfully ask you, accept your response. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh: Yes.]] Thank you very much for indicating, Mr Vice-President, that you accept the person who is responding. Vice-President Lajos Oláh has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-107	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Public Prosecutor's Office, In 2018, we witnessed the shameful event of election fraud in Teresa and Erzsébetváros. At least 341 in the order of the Fidesz and Lendület were identical recommendations for Hungary! on the arches of the candidate of the party. In addition, the Fidesz list included data from at least 9 deceased or no longer resident in the area, and several of these were also signatories to the fake party. Once again, there were several dead men who signed the Fidesz recommendation sheets and the recommendations of the Fidesz Party. During the 2022 election election, election fraud may have occurred again, as Fidesz and three fake parties attempted to influence the results of the election, in violation of the principles and purity of the election, in connection with which new reports were made. At the same time, the election committee in the capital city and the local electoral committee took such steps towards the investigating authority, while several citizens indicated that they would personally report to the investigating authority, as they first discovered in electronic access that they had been designated as a recommendation by an organisation that was not supported. There was a great outrage about what happened, and let me just give you a few details. The names of 127 people on the Fidesz and Thürmer lists were identical; 56 names had the same data with different signatures, Honourable Public Prosecutor's Office! [[14.00]] There were at least 26 people with different names on the Fidesz list with different names, at least four deceased on the Fidesz list, while the Gődény list was filled with many data of the deceased, and several crossed through, but these names were in alphabetical order. They cheated and got busted. I'm asking you, why didn't anything happen to the election frauds in Teresa and Elizabethtown? Why did you let the case go? Have there been any interviews with local party leaders, candidates, fake parties? I'm asking the D.A.'s office, how many people did they listen to whose names were on multiple sheets with different signatures? Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-04-17-108	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I give the floor to Deputy Attorney General Tibor Ibolya. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, Honourable Congressman, I can report positive developments on your question. As you just said, in March last year, three investigations were ordered by the Budapest Police Headquarters. Definite progress has been made in two cases and decisive progress has been made in all three cases, but no suspect interrogation has yet taken place in one case. In a case on 7 December last year, a suspect interview took place, and the investigating authority sent the proceedings to the Budapest VI on 12 April. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. District Attorney's Office. I can assure the Member that within the 30 days available, we will take a position on how the procedure is to be completed. And there's another case: in this case, there was a suspect interrogation on 7 December last year, in this case, the investigation is in the so-called filing, file transfer department, which means that in a very short period of time, the investigating authority will hand over the case documents to the prosecutor; just as in the previous case, we will make a decision on how the case is closed within 30 days. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-04-17-110	Thank you very much, Deputy Attorney General. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Vice President. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We're going to look at these developments the D.A.'s office has put before us here. We're looking forward to it. Unfortunately, we see that what happened five years ago was not a development in this Parliamentary term, honourable prosecutor, that there was no procedure. Maybe he was sitting in the Fidesz line, voting for a guy who committed election fraud. He should have been prosecuted, and he may have voted the whole time on two-thirds laws. Therefore, I urge everyone to try to take these matters seriously if democracy is important and not to look at an election fraud five years later. If there is a faster development in these matters, I will only be happy to see it, if not, then we will continue this discussion here within the framework of Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2023-04-17-112	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Deputy Attorney General. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, I cannot give you any detailed information on matters of 2018 here; if you have any questions about these matters, please feel free to contact the Attorney General in writing, you will receive detailed information. With regard to the cases of 2020-202, I do not think we can talk about the delay in the proceedings, since, in fact, within a period of less than a year after the order of the investigation, suspicions have taken place within ten months, and, as I have just said, cases are likely to be prosecuted. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-04-17-114	Thank you very much, Deputy Attorney General. Dear House, Fellow Members! Dávid Bedő, Ferenc Gelencsér, Szabó Szabolcs and Márton Tompos, representatives of the Momentum, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: It's an address. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the Head of the Momentum Group said in advance that he would ask for a personal reply, so that he will have to answer in the hour of the third immediate questions due to Mr. Prime Minister's absence. We now have a representative of the Momentum faction who wants to ask the Minister of Construction and Transport an immediate question, Mr Dávid Bedő. It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Due to the Minister's absence, Mr.Bálint Nagy was entitled to reply. I respectfully ask you... [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] Mr Péter Ágh, Secretary of State, will have the floor if he accepts the reply. (To sign:) Thank you very much, Mr President, for informing me that you accept the person who is responding, and I apologise, because I thought the previous Secretary of State opposite was going to answer from the cover. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-115	Will you reset the clock, please? [[Bence Rétvári: Restored.]]
u2023-04-17-116	Of course.
u2023-04-17-117	Thank you very much. A few weeks ago, it was discovered that they wanted to give 12 Hungarian castles in private hands. 12 castles that have been renovated in recent years, worth nearly HUF 35 billion, and whose total value may exceed several hundred billion forints. But it's not enough that they want to give national cultural values into private hands, they'd do it all for free. This is called privatisation, and there is a much simpler and more understandable word for it: theft. For such a waste of national wealth is nothing more than looting the country. I am sure that you will tell me that you cannot maintain these cultural values because of the failed sanctions policy in Brussels and that you will be forced to distribute them. And that private companies will be better owners of these buildings. But the reality is that the last 13 years have proved that behind all these bullshit lies how they can enrich their own circles. Of course, the story doesn't end here. It is not enough that hundreds of billions are being donated again, the bill has not even been passed to Parliament, but the employees of the castles concerned have already been fired. A few days ago, I went to Lawyer and Edelény, and interestingly, both castles have a downsizing. 12 men from the garland castle and 20 men from the castle of Edel will be put on the street. A state company with national cultural heritage protection has recently reported that 168 people are being fired. How many of these people work in the affected 12 castles? Mr. Secretary, tell me the truth. Are they firing so many people because they already know they won't be needed by the new owners? Give a clear answer: why donate free Hungarian castles and how many people are planned to fire from the 12 castles concerned? Thank you. [[Bence of Turdai and Dr. Tamás Belling applaud.]]
u2023-04-17-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State Péter Agh. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-119	Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Honestly, how do I put this? I am concerned that there are left-wing representatives who are concerned and think about preserving our national values, because if we look back to the period before 2010, they are exactly who they are. [[Bence of Turdai: Dávid Bedő in person?]] who have made every effort to consciously weaken national culture during pre-2015 governance. Many built national heritage and monuments were left to crumble, and their condition continued to deteriorate, and renovations were cancelled. Compared to this, the national government considered it important to save the inheritance that our ancestors left us step by step. In fact, the renovations of the castle and castle in recent years have been part of this programme. However, there are, of course, still monuments that will require further steps in the future to save. The protection of heritage and the protection of monuments are therefore of paramount importance to the Hungarian government. At the same time, I think it is worth discussing how, in what form, our monuments will be renovated. In addition, it is worth looking at ways to involve additional resources in order to ensure that our monuments are permanently accessible to Hungarians. In fact, the Ministry of Construction and Transport is looking for a solution in this regard and is engaged in a dialogue on this, in this connection the concepts of stakeholders have been developed. This is the purpose of this particular concept, in which we look for ways to involve private capital in such a way as to contribute to the long-term survival of the buildings concerned. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-04-17-120	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Dávid Bedő. [[14.10]]
u2023-04-17-121	Thank you very much. Again, as usual, you're wrong! You won't answer any of my questions! You started babbling about 2010 while I was 18 in 2010! 18! I had nothing to do with those governments back then. [[Bence Rétvári: You're running on a list with them! You're pushing Gyurcsány's chariot!]] But you're still talking about me. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] If you really cared about the protection of monuments, you wouldn't be giving 12 newly renovated castles, completely free of charge, in private hands! There's a lot of rotten castles in the country! Why don't you give them away? [[Bence Rétvári: How do you speak? How do you speak? It's broken, so to speak.]] But you still haven't answered my question. I'm expecting a very clear number from you. My question was how many people are fired from the affected 12 castles. A total of 168 people are fired from the NDE; how many of them are fired from the 12 affected castles? I'm expecting a number from you, Secretary of State, nothing else. Thank you. [[Bence of Turdai applauds. Dr. Tamás Bellozó intervenes.]]
u2023-04-17-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Secretary of State Péter Agh, please.
u2023-04-17-123	I understand the Congressman's intensity. We've seen you break down the cordon, and your fellow parties. Take it easy. I think that it is our shared responsibility to ensure that our national heritage is properly preserved. In this situation, I think it is a priority to find the right partners and to preserve our common heritage in a dignified way. In this context, as I said, we are looking for the best way to maintain castles, and if we look around among European examples, we can see that there are different solutions; in the Czech Republic, for example, castles are returned to the original owners. So it is not the devil's idea that the state should not operate such real estate. Let us find the characters with whom we can hand these inheritances over to future generations. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-04-17-124	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Member Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Construction and Transport an immediate question:. Honourable Congressman, Because of the Minister's absence, Mr Péter Ágh has given the right to reply. I respectfully ask you to accept the identity of the responder. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó rises to speak and nods.]] Congressman says he'll take it. Congressman Tamás Bellozó, please.
u2023-04-17-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, In 2003 the bridge of St. Laszlo was handed over and the few ten kilometers from the M9 highway. For 20 years, Szekszárd, Dombóvár, Bonyhád and the other side of Bács-Kiskun County have been waiting for this M9 road, as promised, to be built. A few years ago, it was almost as cold water for the people living there that the government had chosen another trail, and it seemed that the M9 highway would not be built in the area of Szekszárd. I've asked several members of the government. Gergely Gulyás acknowledged the existence of an alternative route, but he promised here, within the walls of this house, that the government would make a decision that would not lose Szekszárd and its region. Obviously, Minister, you must have thought that the two trails would be built at the same time. The Minister also acknowledged that the government had not yet decided on this. Compared to this, in March 2022, in the heat of the election campaign, István Horváth, Member of the Parliament of Szekszárd, wrote the following on his Facebook:, The M9 motorway is built on the trail of Szekszárd. Any conflicting rumors are false, political disturbance by left-wing politicians. We're going forward, not back. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State: a year has passed again; there is no news, no government decision or any decision in the Gazette on where the region of Szekszárd is going now. Where's the government decision that assigned the M9? When will the section of the M9 Szekszárd-Dombóvár and the section of Bács County be built; or I could ask whether this section was built at all, or the mohács lobby won from the Fidesz representatives, and the region of Szekszárd and Tolna lost again. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties. Dr. Brenner Koloman: They want Mohács!]]
u2023-04-17-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State Péter Agh for the answer.
u2023-04-17-127	Honourable Congressman, In advance, I would like to say that by building a road, I think that the country always wins, and the citizens of the country benefit from it, regardless of where they live. I would also like to say first of all that, if you look at the government's activities, you can see that you have been very committed to promoting mobility in the field of road construction. In Hungary, most motorways, most motorways and most road renovations have taken place during the current government's term of office, which, I think, has brought about a very serious change in the last 12 years. The government therefore prioritises the development of road transport. Its main intention remains to continuously improve the quality of road transport. In this context, county-righted cities were connected to the four-track road system. We continue the work in which we want to lead motorways to the international motorway network up to the border, and we also consider it important to improve the availability of technological and industrial centres, the development of the existing road network, the construction of bypass roads. The removal of the burden on transit traffic in Budapest and its surroundings is in the common interest of all of us, and this is an important element of the development plan for the ongoing M0-M9 ring and its rapid implementation. With regard to the M9 track, the aim is to create a road ring including the West-South-East. I would like to inform the Member that an environmental impact assessment and environmental permits have been issued in the framework of the preparatory tasks for the sections 51 to 54 and 54 and 53 of Highway M9. With the granting of an environmental permit, the trail is considered to be designated. This track ensures its connection to the M9 Szeged or even the branching to Serbia, so that both directions can be served by creating a separation node. At the same time, investigations and expert discussions are still ongoing on the transdanubian trail. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-04-17-128	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr Tamás Harangozó, is the subject of the floor. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-129	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Secretary. I'm gonna quote you again, okay? The M9 motorway is built on a trail that affects Szekszárd. Any conflicting rumors are false, political disturbance by left-wing politicians. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I didn't know you were a left-wing politician, Mr. Secretary of State, but what we've heard here in response is a five even out of distraction, at least. So be nice, simply, to say it in Hungarian: did the government decide the path of the M9 Szekszárd or did it not decide? You didn't decide because it was built somewhere else, or because you still couldn't make a decision? The environmental permit, Mr. Secretary of State, and the delineation for decades, or a decade ago, has certainly been on this trail. Archaeological explorations have already taken place. The one thing that doesn't happen is the decision of the government and the construction of the road. Be nice to simply say yes or no: is the M9 road connecting Szeged built on a sekszárd trail or not on a sekszárd trail? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2023-04-17-130	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State, please.
u2023-04-17-131	Honourable Congressman, M9 Road is a very large concept, consisting of a number of project elements. In fact, it connects Transdanubia with the Great Plain, and obviously there is a very serious need for preparation, but there is also a need for very serious resources to enable this construction to take place. And that's why it's important to say that the war and the misguided sanctions policy, just like they do a lot of improvements, put a stamp on it. However, once the economic situation is resolved and as soon as the necessary resources are available to launch new investments of this kind, the government will take all further measures to make improvements. In the meantime, I would like to ask Mr President, with all due respect, that the resources needed for Hungary should also be available to support its Brussels policy friends in order to reach a favourable decision for our country in Brussels. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-04-17-132	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman Brenner Koloman and Mr László György Lukács, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What do you think of this, Prime Minister? It's an address. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the leader of the Jobbik faction said in advance that he would ask for a personal reply, so that he will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate questions due to Mr. Prime Minister's absence. Now the next immediate question of the Jobbik fraction is to be asked and the question is to be asked. [[14.20]] Accordingly, Mr Ander Balázs, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: "What do you think of this, Minister? It's an address. Honourable Member, the Minister has authorised Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári, Minister of State, to reply because of his absence. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much for indicating to me that you accept the person you are responding to. Congressman Ander Balázs has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Deputy Minister, Please allow some comments on the upcoming teacher status law and dozens of specific questions. First of all, for the community of Jobbik-Conservatives, it is not a law of profession from the devil at all, provided that it improves the prestige of the teaching field. And then a teacher's salary increase to a law like that is untrue, because I could do that at any time. And the third is pointing to Brussels, and from there we wait for teacher wages to be settled, salary increases, this is not appropriate for Klebelsberg, because Klebelsberg will say it on the thousandth time, and I will tell you now, after a Trianon disaster, not in Paris, but in Paris, it has created national resources, and it has flourished domestic education. But let's look at the specific questions. Mr. Deputy Minister, how will you influence the attractiveness of the teaching career if the probation period can be even double the current one if, due to the change in the rules of the dismissal period, pensioners lose three months' salary if the Jubilee Reward is even tighter if, in the event of resignation, the employee can still be tied to another half year if the rules of the special discharge are amended according to the draft, i.e. tightened up if teachers can be forced to commute for several hours at any time, if the availability and daily working hours can increase by 25-50 per cent, if Sunday work can be ordered, if the obligation of further training is extended to 60-year-old colleagues and they can be required to obtain a new diploma if the autonomy of the staff is reduced so much that they can decide on the policy only if they can be half or even more of a teaching body if they can become a class member if the interest and the right of strike are practically impossible? I look forward to your truly meaningful answers. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2023-04-17-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-135	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, On 2 March, we published a draft law far from Parliament, so it is only a public debate. We did this at the beginning of March, then for several weeks with the unions, with the strategy round table for public education, with the National Council for Public Education, with the Faculty of Pedagogism in several circles, we have consulted and consulted several organisations, as we are in this phase. We have been negotiating for a month and a half now, and the negotiations will result in the final text of this bill, which, if the government decides, will be submitted to Parliament. So we're in a far-off phase here. Indeed, this proposal covers two important directions. One of the directions is a teacher's wage increase, a very large-scale teacher's wage increase, a scale that was not previously in Hungary, and beside it a new principle in wages, which is not the level of education, so that based on college or university and the number of years of life, so on the number of years spent on the field, but on the basis of performance, a higher share of the wage is also intended to create a new form of pay table for performance purposes. I think it would be an ideal moment for everyone to have an increase in everyone's salary, because everyone will increase their pay more radically, and there should also be a new principle that those who work more, put more performance on the table, have an even greater share of raises in them, and can also address the issue everyone thinks is important, so that the first-timers can increase their salary to a greater extent. Because, given the characteristics of the previous career, who have worked longer, were closer to retirement, they were the only ones with higher salaries, and now we strive to make it higher for the younger ones, so that they don't crumble, because many people still apply to teachers, and they finish the university, but then they don't choose this career, or in five years many people leave this course. That's why we need to increase their pay more radically. Your objections [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] a good part of it, by the way, is a rule that's being transferred from the labor code to the new law, but I'm going to continue it from here for a minute. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-17-136	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Ander Balázs. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-137	Mr. Secretary. He talked about negotiating with trade unions, and trade unions miss this, at least the substantial part of it; appearance reconciliation is not conciliation. What lies before us is, in fact, that teaching as an intellectual profession becomes impossible, because they degrade teachers into maids. You're talking about a raise, you're right, God forbid, but there's a lot of negatives in there that actually put this raise in parentheses. I would like to indicate that more than 4,500 people have indicated that they will not sign this, leaving this course. And if we add this 4500 number to the current teacher shortage, which is only the tip of the iceberg, then it must be said that this is an assassination against Hungarian education, Hungarian competitiveness and the Hungarian future in this form. Secretary of State, I cannot accept your answer.
u2023-04-17-138	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-139	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think that if teachers receive an independent law, in which their legal status is settled by an independent law, and it is not incorporated in many other very important but other types of public service workers, among them a doctor, nurse, caregiver, cultural worker, but they have a separate sectoral law, I think it is a part of appreciation. The other part is that we want to estimate performance. You reject that, I don't know why. Because it's common sense to refuse to let anyone who does more for the kids get more pay, who deals with the kids for 22 hours, get a salary, who gets 26, the higher. Those who care less about children who break down will receive a salary, but those who care a lot about children who break down may earn a hundred thousand forints more. If you don't compete with your children, you get a salary, but if you take the talented children to the competition, you can earn a hundred thousand forints more. The person who takes the children on various trips or presents them more interactively can earn a hundred thousand forints more. What's so offensive about that? What's unacceptable to you? I think if it's in the best interest of the children, it's that their good teachers, who give him more, are better valued and made hundreds of thousands more. That's what the law is about. [[Ander Balázs: It's not just about that! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-17-140	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear House, Fellow Members! Representative of the President of the Hungarian National Bank of Hungary, President of the Hungarian National Bank, Mr President of the Hungarian Parliament, wants to ask an immediate question: why are women raised with 3 children receiving 20% lower pensions than their childless peers? It's an address. Since President György Matolcsy is present, whom I welcome with great respect, he can ask the question in person. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2023-04-17-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear President of the Bank, Congratulations on the MNB's 144-point debate paper last May! Although it would have been better to confront society with the tragic economic situation of Hungary during the election campaign, I do not want to seem insatiable, as you are still the bravest state leader in Hungary. Let me highlight from this 144 points the most painful. The family tax allowance for the third child is worth only half as much of the average wage as it was when it was introduced. This must be said, as it is said, that 15-20 thousand more newborns per year, i.e. 110 thousand newborns, would have to do so in order to achieve the necessary demographic change. To this end, I have suggested several points, which, unfortunately, seems to have escaped the attention of the government. I would therefore like to point out, in particular, that it is still a risk of poverty to be a large family, greater than, for example, a pensioner. That's my statement, and that's our country's movement. However, you have also found that raising three children is a significant additional cost even in the generous domestic family support system, since for example raising three children costs 86 million HUF on average, according to your calculations, while the state financial support is only HUF 54 million against HUF 86 million. And after that, especially serious social injustice, I think that what is also stated is painful, but rightly so, that women raised with three children receive a starting pension of 20 percent lower than their childless peers, and even women raised with two children receive 15 percent less pensions. Why? How long can we tolerate this, and how can we draw the government's attention to these roaring social injustices? Thank you for your meaningful reply. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-04-17-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to President György Matolcsy. Here you go, Mr. President. You have the floor. [[14.30]]
u2023-04-17-143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The Magyar Nemzeti Bank has tried and continuously tried to support Hungary's sustainable catch-up with three documents. The first was published in 2016 Competitiveness and growth, in 2019 we published the 330-point discussion paper, and, as Mr President rightly and thank you for the recognition, in 2022 we published our 114-point proposal on sustainable catch-up and balance, the return to growth. Yes, health and demography are essential for sustainable catching up. All international successes say that all national economic success is based on an expanding population, an increasing population and increasing productivity. Without it, there is no successful economic catch-up. Hungary started well in 2010. There's a demographic shift. This was very significant because we went from a fertility rate of 1.23 per cent to 1.59 per cent in 2021. We have made almost half of the trip, but only half of it has been done, and since 2016, our dynamics have been decreasing. I think it is quite clear that we cannot be satisfied with the fact that, like 88,000 children born at a demographic low point, only 88,000 children were born last year. A new demography 2.0 programme is needed, and this is what our debate paper aims at. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2023-04-17-144	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A one-minute rejoinder from Mr. President Novak. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-145	Dear President of the Bank, Thank you for your sincere and constructive words and thoughts. The Hungarian Movement also seeks to highlight, in the spirit of constructive opposition, programmes, forgotten proposals that could make a difference, if you will, radically change. This is also supported by the program of Our Hungary. Let me suggest to them that inflation-following family subsidies be taken into account so that, like pensions, we at least guarantee by law that family subsidies are inflation-seekers for a predictable and predictable future. The VAT on articles needed to raise children should also be reduced as much as possible by guaranteeing the resulting price reduction by law. Finally, in addition to the introduction of full-time parenthood, I would like to offer adequate guarantees, such as a school education, a previous long-term work relationship, an unpunished record of guaranteeing that anyone who wants to start a really big family and raise a real family in full-time is entitled to the state's support, because the HUF 28 500 that now belongs to a full-time parent is extremely unworthy. I would also ask the government and the President of the Central Bank to continue to show openness to these problems. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-04-17-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. President György Matolcsy is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Mr. President. You have the floor.
u2023-04-17-147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I agree that every thought should be placed here on the table. Once again, without an expanding population, there will be no Hungarian economic success, and if there is no economic success, there will be no national success. But maybe because there are a lot of good ideas, there are a lot of changes in our demographic policy that, like the previous success, raises the desire to have children and expands Hungary's population. I agree that it is not fair and, therefore, it is not sustainable that mothers with two children's pensions are 15 percent lower and those with three children are 20 percent lower than average pensions. This needs to be corrected. There are a lot of technical possibilities for medicine. The point is, we need a new demography 2.0 government program. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ranks of the ruling parties and our country.]]
u2023-04-17-148	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question:. What is going on here? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Due to the absence of the Minister, Deputy Minister Levente of State was entitled to reply. With all due respect, you'll accept the recipient's identity. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much. Congressman indicates that he accepts the person to whom he is responding. Congressman Bence of Turdai has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Deputy Minister, I'm sure you know that story about Pistika, who gets on the bike with her untied shoelaces, and when her friends warn her that it's not gonna end well, she's gonna be confident, and then when the shoelaces roll on the chain and fall, she's gonna tell the guys to shut up, that's how I get off the bike. You play this story quite regularly; the last time about the Russian spy bank, when we, on behalf of the Dialogue-Greens, but from all opposition parties, spoke long ago, it might be time to get out of this terribly embarrassing, politically unsustainable and economically pointless institution [[Interviews from Fidesz: Is Gyurcsány embarrassing?]] The same is true of Paks II. investment. Benedek Jávor and the Dialogue-Greens, when they started this project nine years ago, we said it wouldn't end well. By the way, it is 2023, the year that, according to Viktor Orbán, this Paks II, at least its first block, starts production, has not been able to obtain the permits compared to this. So much for who's right. Now that the sanctions that have already been imposed to ban Rosatom's subsidiary companies from Europe may finally make it clear to you what we are talking about. Compared to this, your minister ran to Moscow quickly, and a little bit of damage, not to Hungary, but to Rosatom. If we understand the news correctly, they will prepare a treaty amendment that will benefit the Russian party in all respects and place the extra burdens and additional responsibility on the shoulders of Hungarian taxpayers. I would like to ask you first of all that we understand that it will be much more expensive, that all risks are borne by the Hungarian party, and that in all other respects, the contract will be amended to please Rosatom. But the good news is, of course, this is not going to happen, which is why we ask on a temporary basis that you want to encrypt the contracts as much as you did before, which was then sued by Jávor Benedek. How long will the end play be, when will you admit that this project has failed, and when will you switch to a sustainable energy policy, as the Dialogue-Greens suggested, and Jávor Benedek summarized in ten points what you should do? I'm curious to hear your answer.
u2023-04-17-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. Before I give the floor to Deputy Minister Levente Magyar, Minister of State, honourable Member, I think that I would not have said this joke in terms of public education in your place, not in this language composition, but that tastes and slaps are different, we know that. I am now giving the floor to Deputy Minister Levente Magyar, State Secretary.
u2023-04-17-151	Thank you very much for the floor. [[Intercoms: We can't hear you!]]
u2023-04-17-152	Please turn on the Secretary of State's computer and restore time. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-153	I got it, it's starting to light up, thank you. I didn't know the joke with Pistike, I knew a certain little animal, but it doesn't change the point, I understand the conclusion. However, I must say, Mr President, that in a radically changed international relationship, in a new geopolitical situation, it is perfectly natural that decisions that have proven to be meaningful and forward-looking have been re-evaluated. The bank's case, I think, is one of them. This financial institution chose Budapest as its seat, which was a great honour for the country, as it was the only international financial institution that moved its seat to Budapest. I would like to remind the honourable Member and critics of the current steps that this was not a project in the framework of Hungarian-Russian cooperation, but a project involving a number of Central-Eastern European countries, our NATO and European Union partners, and there was every chance that this would be successful. Since the war started, several people have left the bank. Not all of our NATO and EU allies have completed this process, so it is not even possible to say that Hungary would leave the bank for the last time. At the same time, Hungary, as the country in which the institution was established, was obviously interested in taking the necessary action as soon as possible, which was inevitable in the last few weeks, according to which the bank's meaningful operation was impossible. [[14.40]] I ask that, in view of the external circumstances, we interpret this in this context. As far as Paks is concerned, we consider it crucial to make the adjustments to the contractual relationship with the Russians, which are most likely to ensure that this power plant is built by the planned deadline, in terms of the main aspect you have said, sustainable energy production and secure energy supply in the country. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-17-154	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister, Secretary of State. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Bence Tordai. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-155	Mr Deputy Minister, when you say that earlier these projects have proved meaningful and forward-looking, I mean Paks II. You may have thought that this was intelligent and forward-looking back in 2014, and if I understand correctly, you do not think that it is intelligent or forward-looking. And if I understand it correctly again, then both cases will be dealt with as soon as possible by this step, understand: to take the inevitable step. What I don't understand is why it's good to stall and delay the inevitable. They do the same by ratifying the accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO. Everyone knows they're gonna sign, but they're gonna make their international position a little worse. They did the same thing with the Russian spy bank case, and now they're doing the same thing with Paks II. I don't know, I don't know. Why can't you make the right decisions in time? What you said about Paks II being ready by the planned deadline, obviously there is no chance, as the planned deadline was 2023, but the 2030 planned was already amended orally by the Minister of Energy himself by 2032; this is not the case in the contract. I'd like to ask you when you're finally going to have the courage to say "Paks II." enlargement project failed.
u2023-04-17-156	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Deputy Minister, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-157	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressman put words in my mouth I didn't say. The Investment Bank and Paks II. The situation of the Investment Bank is fundamentally different, since the United States announced concrete sanctions for the Investment Bank last week, and it obviously pushed the financial institution into a vacuum that no economic benefits for Hungary from further participation in the Investment Bank, so quitting is now a sensible step, which is why we decided to do so. Paks is in a different position. Russian companies involved in the Paks investment are not directly sanctioned. So Paks wasn't in a position like the Investment Bank. All legal conditions for this project to continue. The fact that sanctions and the whole war context result in an extremely difficult situation for all the cooperation in which Russian economic operators are involved is evidence. We are doing everything we can to ensure that the power plant, which is most likely to be built in this constellation in Hungary, can be built by the 2030s, and that the conditions for this will continue to be created. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-17-158	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman Máté Kanász-Nagy, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What do you think of this, Prime Minister?" It's an address. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the head of the LMP faction said in advance that he would ask for a personal reply, so that he will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate questions due to Mr. Prime Minister's absence. The next immediate question of the LMP fraction will therefore be discussed. Dear House, Congressman Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question: how long will the corrupt executioner be held in position? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Due to the Minister's absence, Mr Répássy, Minister of State, was entitled to reply. With all due respect, you'll accept the recipient's identity.
u2023-04-17-159	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2023-04-17-160	Thank you very much. Congressman indicates that he accepts the person to whom he is responding. Congressman László Keresztes has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-161	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Well, now I can finally ask the Ministry, Mr. State Secretary, not only in writing but also in a live language, how it can happen that György Schadl, an important member of the executive mafia, can continue to be president of the Hungarian Faculty of Executives of the Court even today. We know that according to the D.A., your predecessor, Pál Völner, had already established a corruption relationship with the President of the Faculty of Executives of the Court in 2018, and György Schadl gave him a considerable amount of bribes, and according to the D.A., Pál Völner served György Schadl's intentions by using his influence and contacts in return for this bribe. György Schadl has been in custody since November 2021, and we see that the Hungarian Court Executives Faculty has no intention of recalling him, which is why you expressed your regret. But it is clear that this position is not symbolic, because under the laws in force, appointed executives must take an oath before the President of the Executive Faculty. You have also acknowledged, Mr Secretary of State, that it is not acceptable to have a legislative environment where an executor banned from his profession can continue to be president of the faculty, but the Ministry has not initiated a legislative amendment, although it is clear that the laws are wrong. My question, Mr. Secretary of State, is why the corrupt executioner is in position. This is a clear political decision, we can see that, but what is the Ministry's position on this? Why didn't the Ministry put forward a bill to replace György Schadl in this situation? Because of the failure of the Ministry to do its job, I have tabled, on two occasions, an amendment that you have canceled, and you have not supported it. I've submitted this bill for the third time to replace the corrupt executioner. Did the Ministry support the adoption of this bill? Thank you very much for the answer.
u2023-04-17-162	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I said, will be given by Deputy Minister Robert Répássy, Secretary of State. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2023-04-17-163	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, As you have mentioned, you have asked the same in writing four times to date: K/253. under number K/515. under number K/1514. under number K/2315 under the number below. Congressman, neither the situation nor our answers have changed. However, I would like to point out that you are not addressing this issue in the right place, because neither the government nor the members of the government have any authority over who the Executive Faculty elects as its President. You have received in writing a precise reference in the implementing law that the executive members of the Executive Faculty may at any time recall the President by a two-thirds majority. This was indeed not done at their last assembly, which was in 2022. The Executive Faculty may, of course, re-invite its President on the following occasion. And I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the supervision of the enforcement body is not carried out by the government or by the Ministry of Justice, but by the Supervisory Authority for Regulatory Activities, which means that if you or anyone or the Authority detect any violation of the law in connection with the operation of the Executive Board, then only the Supervisory Authority for Regulated Activities has the right to take action in this regard, so that they may convene a general meeting of the Executive Board in the event of an infringement. So you address this question repeatedly inappropriately. We have no interest in a person in criminal proceedings continuing to lead the Executive Faculty. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-17-164	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. A one-minute rejoinder will be given to Congressman László Keresztes. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-165	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, At the same time, the Minister of Justice was tasked with preparing legislation on judicial enforcement and judicial enforcement bodies as part of his responsibility for justice. My question is that according to the Ministry, the executives who did not take an oath before György Schadl are now operating legally. So you've seen lawlessness? In your view, executives may operate in Hungary today in such a way that it is illegal, because they obviously did not take an oath in prison, although it would symbolize this system, but it is obviously unthinkable and unacceptable. Do you not feel that the Minister of Justice has a need for action in this situation and has a responsibility to initiate amendments to the legislation? Do you not think that the Minister is failing to initiate amendments to these laws in this way? And regardless of the fact that there has been a law amendment since then and that the system of implementation has indeed been under the control of Antal Rogán, I would like to ask that the Ministry of Justice, as the Ministry of Justice, supports the adoption by the Parliament of an amendment that can be replaced by a man who, according to the court, can be called the most corrupt Hungarian enforcer. Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your patience.
u2023-04-17-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Robert Répássy, Minister of State, is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go. [[14.50]]
u2023-04-17-167	Honourable Congressman, In my written answers it was stated that the Act of Enforcement was 230. According to §2 of the Act, the question of legality which arose in connection with the operation of the executioner may be decided by the court in which the executioner is competent, so that it is a judicial power to act legally by an executioner or not, this is not the government's jurisdiction, first of all. Secondly, we have already indicated to you that if the committee appointed by the Speaker of Parliament, appointed by the Speaker of Parliament, takes your bill into consideration, then the Ministry of Justice, or more precisely, will, of course, explain its position. That hasn't happened before. I think that if the series of objects were to be included, if the series of objects were to take place! Then you can expect us to explain the government's position. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-17-168	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister, Secretary of State. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman Csaba Nagy, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the regional development minister an immediate question: å Sold-out national interest? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Csaba Latorcai, Deputy Minister, appointed Minister of State to respond to the Minister's absence. With all due respect, you'll accept the recipient's identity. [[On the mark of Csaba Nagy:]] Thank you very much, the Member indicates that he accepts the person who is responding. Congressman Csaba Nagy has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, As is already known to everyone, Ferenc Gyurcsány and his party are working at home and in Brussels to ensure that Hungary does not receive the EU's rightful money. We might as well be surprised, but why would we do that? Gyurcsány and his party, as usual, are working against Hungary, the Hungarian people and national interests. That's why their foreign clients pay them, which is why they roll the dollars overseas. The fallen Prime Minister exposed himself again, when he acknowledged in his Facebook post that in Brussels they were devising that Hungary would not receive the EU funds it was entitled to. Allow me to quote some of the lines in the post: - Therefore, we are going against Orbán's government. We're putting pressure on him where we can and how we can. To free the country. Yes, we have worked to give the European Union conditions that break it down, or at least weaken Orbán's corrupt, self-conscious world. That man only understands from the power. Then it should be applied. The words of Ferenc Gyurcsány are undemocratic, scandalous and unacceptable. Gyurcsány spoke in a radio interview about the aim of Brussels and, of course, of the dollar left to overthrow the legally elected Hungarian government by a two-thirds majority. It's not an exaggeration to say that this is a complete exposure. Brussels has come up with new and new conditions for our country to receive the money we deserve. Even though we have fulfilled all 17 conditions, they are constantly inventing new ones, now as it turns out with Ferenc Gyurcsány. Dear Secretary of State, It is extremely sad that the dollar left led by Ferenc Gyurcsány plays an immoral game in Brussels in exchange for rolling dollars. In the light of what has been said, I ask the Secretary of State: is the dollar left really doing everything in its power to put Hungary and Hungarian people in the most disadvantaged position possible? What additional conditions do Brussels and the dollar left agree on? [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-17-170	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Csaba Latorcai, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-171	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is truly outrageous, as the dollar left led by Ferenc Gyurcsány works against Hungary, against Hungarian people, against Hungarian businesses, and based on developments in recent weeks, it is understandable why Ferenc Gyurcsány said on 15 March that the government will not be able to agree with the EU, so it is very, very likely that there will be no EU money either this year or after. We also heard from Ferenc Gyurcsány on 15 March: we are Patriots. We think the Patriots are talking about the future. In my view, however, people who actively act to put their own country of birth and their fellow country at a disadvantage should be called not patriots, but political traitors. The bottom line is that the dollar left cannot accept the electorate's decision in the 2022 elections and does not accept the ideas that would build the country, but is more interested in destruction. Ferenc Gyurcsány, the leader of the left-wing Hungary, in his radio interview referred to by the Member, clearly acknowledged that he was working against Hungary, he and all left-wing representatives from Momentum to Jobbikon [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] Through the Dialogue, the LMP and the MSZP to the Democratic Coalition, whether within the walls of this House or in Brussels. Dear Parliament, The government stands by all Hungarians [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai from his seat:]] while the left plays a double game [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: No!]] Yes, yes, Congresswoman. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Not all Hungarians stand by us!]] as EU funds are pressing [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir/ritonavir [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Next to Orbán!]] they'll do whatever they can in Brussels. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: He stands next to Tiborcz! The president's ringing the bell.]] You and your fellow Members do not have access to those funds. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: The Secretary of State is lying all over the place.]] That's what I'm talking about. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] However, you can be sure that we will not allow Ferenc Gyurcsány's plan to be implemented. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: The Secretary of State is lying all over the place.]] We're not gonna let the resources we have [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] End up in the hands of the dollar-left financiers. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Agnes Vadai: Don't lie to me.]]
u2023-04-17-172	Dear notary, I ask you to come back with me. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Almost there! But someone has to react.]] Come with me, because we're not going any further, dear. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Because... [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: But someone has to stop all the lies, Mr. President. Dr. Agnes Vadai will take his place in the notary seat.]] Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Congressman Csaba Nagy. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-173	Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Thank you for your answer. Gyurcsány speaks with quite astonishing openness that the left is working abroad and at home so that our country does not receive the EU funds it deserves. The fallen Prime Minister also said that Brussels was in a fight against such legal debauchery. [[Balázs Barkóczi intervenes.]] It's just packaging, and I quote, it's dressed in a legal gown like this. We thank Ferenc Gyurcsány for explaining what this is all about: so it's just a legal robe, which is what Brussels is wearing to blackmail and their goal is to overthrow the government. It is clear to the contrary that Ferenc Gyurcsány's personal ambitions coincide with Brussels and with the intention of the neurosurgeons. They are working to overthrow the Hungarian government to sell out the Gyurcsány-Dobrev couple and offer our country to wipe out independent nations [[Balázs Barkóczi: You shouldn't steal so much, then the money will come!]] Brussels bureaucrats. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-17-174	A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Deputy Minister, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-175	Mr President, Dear House, The last time Ferenc Gyurcsány told us not only that they wanted to make the elected government impossible in association with the international left, but at Easter, at the greatest festival of Christendom, he did not tell us, as if spit on our Christian values, that he was Jesus Christ to listen to them on the radio! [[Balázs Barkóczi laughs.]] It's a dangerous and not ridiculous statement. [[Balázs Barkóczi: This is paranoia!]] Because no one can compare you to the Saviour. [[Balázs Barkóczi intervenes.]] And remember that, unfortunately, Ferenc Gyurcsány had already been given once to live out his messianic ideas in the country, and he was haunted by eyeballs and crippled lives. The Hungarians have repeatedly stated that they are not asking for any more of these, because it cannot be allowed for Ferenc Gyurcsány to lead the country again, and it cannot be allowed for the country to go on the left-wing road, on the path of debt and austerity, on the road that the foreign financiers of the dollar-left side want to take. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-17-176	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, a representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question: Why is Brussels not sweeping its own house into a corruption scandal? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Due to the Minister's absence, Mr Répássy, Minister of State, was entitled to reply. [[On the mark of Lőrinc Nacsa:]] Thank you for indicating your acceptance of the responding person. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-04-17-177	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Last week we learned that one of the leading actors of the corruption scandal in Brussels, Klára Dobrev and István Ujhelyi, Eva Kaili, was released from their luxury prison. The ex-president of the European Parliament, under surveillance by electronic tracker, was placed under house arrest, last in the ranks of the main ringleaders of the scandal, after the former Italian Socialist MEP Pierre Antonio Panzeri, Italian MEP Andrea Cozzolino, and the Socialist MEP Mark Tarabella of Belgium, and Kaili's partner, had already been placed under house arrest. The charges against them are corruption, money laundering and involvement in a criminal organization, but the entire bribery case could have at least 60 victims. Brussels is therefore swimming in systemic left-wing corruption, but rather than tidying up around its own house, it is occupied with the fact that, as recently revealed with the powerful help of the Gyurcsányek, it is attacking Hungary, hiding behind the cover of the rule of law, and teaching it only because we do not join the ranks of pro-war, we do not deliver weapons, we do not support harmful sanctions, we say no to illegal migration, and we also say no to gender propaganda for children. [[15.00]] (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.) It is hypocrite and deceitful, as Hungary is being exterminated, while they themselves are ignoring the most fundamental circumstances of the rule of law and the rule of law. With an anti-corruption reform package, they are trying to make the action look like one, and they are tying up the entire left-wing corruption issue instead of revealing the smallest details of this corruption machine. Where is the European Commission, which should actually be the guardian of the treaties? Dear Secretary of State, We, pro-government representatives, trust that, after Brussels itself is obviously unwilling to do so, in the European elections to be held next year, voters will put order in the European Parliament and with it in the European Commission. I ask you, honourable Secretary of State, why is Brussels not sweeping its own house into a corruption scandal? Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-04-17-178	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I salute my fellow Members. I give the floor to Secretary Robert Répássy.
u2023-04-17-179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Please allow me to make the point that it is no exaggeration to say that the left in Brussels is facing the most serious credibility problem so far. Almost every corner of domestic and international media was covered by Eva Kaili's case, in which, if you look at the headlines only, you can find bribes, offshore accounts, the case of NGOs across the nation states and the mockery of European public power. We remember well when Eva Kaili lobbied in 2015 for Hungary's inability, including Péter Niedermüller, then MEP DK, presented a motion to embarrass our country in the European Parliament. He also voted in favour of the Sargentini report, which laid the groundwork for the procedure initiated against Hungary and which has continued since then under Article 7, in which one of the charges was precisely corruption. It is also true that these reports and procedures in Brussels are aimed at enforcing the political interests of the liberal side and, unfortunately, they serve only traces of the fight against corruption or the protection of the rule of law. Universal standards, such as fundamental human rights, are used as a means of political conflict, thereby weakening the concept itself and moral confidence in politics. Recently, on 20 January 2023, the Fidesz EP delegation sent a letter to the President of the EP and to the heads of the EP fractions, proposing to take over the Hungarian property declaration system in order to create public confidence and greater transparency due to corruption in Brussels. The European Parliament's serious corruption scandal has shaken the credibility of the institution and has caused irreparable damage to the assessment of the EU institution system. Thank you for accepting my reply. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-04-17-180	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc has the floor.
u2023-04-17-181	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, It is quite astounding that almost no week goes by without one of the socialist representatives, ex-members or staff members being arrested in Brussels. These are the faction members who sit in the same faction as Dobrev Klára while... [[Balázs Barkóczi: They'll be arrested there, and here your friend Polt will absolve them. The president's ringing the bell.]] Balázs Barkóczi's partymates are constantly being taken from the Socialist Group in handcuffs in Brussels, while we see that Ferenc Gyurcsány is working on it according to his own statement, digging against his country, so that Hungary does not receive the rightful money. Ferenc Gyurcsány admitted that Brussels is working to hold back the resources that Hungary and the Hungarian people are entitled to. Ferenc Gyurcsány is working to ensure that there is no teacher's wage increase, that there is no support for small and medium-sized enterprises, while his friends are drowning in corruption scandals out in Brussels. I think it's false. Next year, voters, European voters, will have the opportunity to judge the European left. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-04-17-182	The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2023-04-17-183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In addition to what I have just mentioned and what you have referred to, Mr President, is that the introduction of the Hungarian declaration of assets system has been proposed by our Group of the European Parliament, we are now in a position to offer the Hungarian model for the Integrity Authority, since Hungary has set up an authority that operates among the Member States of the European Union in only a few Member States. So it would be good if the European Left were to accept these Hungarian proposals, and perhaps the path to the moral renewal of the European Parliament would be credible, which we can really do only if these people do not receive the trust in the next European Parliament elections. Thank you very much for the floor. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-04-17-184	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. This item is closed. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First of all, I would like to give the floor to the better Member of János Bencze, who was asked to speak after the agenda:. What is happening here? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2023-04-17-185	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. It was not so long ago that we talked about what is happening to Ukrainian grain, the disadvantages of its imports, and what we asked for in order to be stricter, and in fact to protect the Hungarian farming community. One of the most important dogmas that we have refuted is that if cheap crops arrive in the country, breaking down Hungarian prices, production will become cheaper, shop prices will become cheaper. Let's see why that's not true. Ukrainian grain, originally intended not for Hungary, but to be sent to Black Africa and the Middle East with the help of a humanitarian corridor, has somehow been stuck in our country and, due to its quality, appeared at a fraction price on the Hungarian grain market. Let's see what happened. There was a pro-government medium that wrote that he tried to defend himself by saying: yes, this will be good, because flour will be cheaper, feed prices will be cheaper, everything will be cheaper. This grain appeared seven months ago, and the white bread became so much cheaper that we recently crossed the thousand forints, let's call it a nightmare. Did we want 1,000-forint white bread from cheaper grain? No way. But if someone goes shopping, the price of meat produced from the same cheap feed is climbing up, whether it be chicken breasts, pork, whatever it is, customers are faced with an ever more expensive price, even if there is cheaper feed or cheaper raw material. That is why the request is made to display companies, to present them on a public list that brought this in, because there was clearly an extra profit here; a multiple extra profit, the price of which was paid by the customers. If the extra-profit tax is already on the agenda several times, yes, charge these companies and compensate the Hungarian farmers, as requested. There is another production course: it belongs to Hungarian honey. As I said, we are asking you to cease trading here, not to enter the country, essentially from abroad, not only from Ukraine, because this is no longer part of the humanitarian corridor; according to the beekeepers, this is the legalization of net honey counterfeiting itself. Here, too, it is safe to say that if you go to the supermarkets, you can't buy high-quality, cheap honey on the shelves there, but you can buy expensive honey of poor quality. What happened? At Hungarian beekeepers, honey was stuck in tons, the purchase price, and look at this, with mixed flower honey falling under a thousand forints, acacia and around 1500 forints; and if we open up to a store, we stand in front of the honey shelves, and we see someone with an indication that it is a mixture of honeys inside the EU and outside the EU, selling it as acacia honey at a price of 6,000 forints. Well, I beg you, if you don't want the Hungarian honey for 1,500 forints, then there's an extra profit right here! Traders who have flooded Hungary with cheap, suspicious foreign honey, come from Ukraine, Spain, China, deserve nothing but extra profit, because the customs duties of this oligarch profit are also paid by the population and families who live from agriculture must be farmers or beekeepers of arable culture. And here you can point out in every direction you have always come by saying that the cost of EU sanctions is paid by the public. From these examples it is clear that the Hungarian population is paying for the extra profit of the sales oligarchs released to Hungary, and we call it inflation in Orbán. It's on all the products. If we look at the Hungarian families now, where honey has become a luxury item, meat becomes a luxury item, bakery becomes a luxury item, ordinary white bread, which was once the cheapest, then what are we talking about? [[15.10]] How did you help the families? I'll tell you what, they didn't help you in any way. You have helped a circle, the dealer's oligarchs, which the community of Jobbik-Conservatives is now demanding to take out an extra profit to curb the entire process. And if you can stop this process, then inflation will also stop, the inflation that your activities have generated. Thank you. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-04-17-186	Thank you very much, Congressman Bencze. Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-meeting speech. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-04-17-187	Mr President, Dear House, I might as well continue the ranks of my excellent fellow Member, because if we look at how what is happening in Hungary affects them from the point of view of Hungarian families, we can see that the price explosion of food prices, the price explosion of child-rearing articles and the failure to build an online price monitoring system that we have repeatedly advocated, has caused these families a burden of at least three times in recent years. We also need to see perfectly that the weak forint only milks this. I can also see the articles, writings, and analyses that I do not know what record the Hungarian forint has reached. We are very pleased that there is now some strength, but we note that before the news of the first armed conflict, the exchange rate of the forint was still lower than in these hours. And if we go back a little in our imagination until 2010, we can remember that we had to pay 266-270 for a euro. From the current level, which is still above 370, it can be said that the tie on me, the phone, the shoes, anything else, is usually purchased by trading companies for euros, and in Portugal, Spain, France, these types of goods are typically the same. And here we can think of durable consumer goods in the same way. And perhaps, besides domestic food, everything is affected by the brutal weakening of the forint, but also because domestic production may require a machine, plant protection product, chemical, anything else. So, overall, the weak forint spills a negative syrup on this whole process, burdening the families. But the online price monitor could still stop this. And although we have been listening for years that this is not such a good method, or, more precisely, no reaction, the GVH has now reached the point where, in cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Development, it starts to deal with this. But what we see is that you can do it right and you can do it wrong. We want our idea to be implemented after five years, and we want them to do it perfectly well. The basic condition of this is that all goods from each product group can be searched and searched in an online system; this should be done in a consumer-friendly way. So we would like to see as a result a website where the product group can be placed even down to the brand level, and it becomes immediately apparent by a colour code that there is, in the case of a large price change or price increase, a market process or speculative processes that have been possible in recent months. Interestingly, as the authorities began to examine, let's say, the dairy market, there was a price that fell by 30 percent. In the three years before that, it did not want to fall, suddenly, when targeted investigations began, these multi-enterprises bid on each other in their brochures and promotional publications, and interestingly began to settle the price of the particular kind of goods. Therefore, I welcome, and welcome, on behalf of the community of Jobbik-Conservatives, the activation of the Hungarian Competition Authority in this area. I could even support the increase in the amount of the fine, the maximum possible, but I can see that these multi-networks realise such an inexorable amount of extra-profit and have accumulated that it is very difficult to set a realistic, life-like maximum fine for them, but we support this process. But I believe in the power of the public much more, I believe that if the online price monitoring system makes it possible for everyone to see whether the consumer, the customer and the citizen are being double-crossed or not in this case. If I can see this perfectly with a green code or a red colour code, then I think that the power of the public, the retention of the trust of Hungarian customers or the shock of it can have a much more positive or negative impact on the economic life of this company than any kind of GVH fine. We therefore call on the government to take this system very seriously. Of course, we put the professional experience that we have gathered here on the common table of Parliament, but we definitely want a system that does not only provide a visual bakery, not only for a product group, but also in a consumer- and customer-friendly way, by intervening an easy-to-use online interface, so that the power of customers and the confidence of citizens can decide whether a group of companies has a place in the Hungarian market or not. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2023-04-17-188	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, also applied for a speech after the agenda.
u2023-04-17-189	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to talk about what should be clear to everyone that it is never possible to politicalize against the interests of a city. On the other hand, in Pécs, unfortunately, we often see examples of governments or certain city leaders wanting to carry out plans, investments that are contrary to the interests of cities, and often making decisions that will cause concrete damage later on. Unfortunately, it can also be said for the city and region of Pécs that politicians or governments often come with ideas that pose an explicit threat to the healthy natural environment of our city and its environment. I think it is very important to remember these decisions, these political attitudes and plans from time to time, because the city of Pécs is still facing very current and very serious challenges. If we look only at bad and unfounded or even corrupt economic decisions, then we can remember the decisions made before 2009, at the time of the failed left-wing city management, and the bus sales scandal, which has had a specific serious economic impact on the city. But once again, we must remember the corruption-smelling Volvo bus-procurement scandal that took place during the Fidesz City Administration in 2015.16. So after years of investigation, I personally filed a complaint as a municipal representative on the case. The case, the whole bus-shopping scandal, is in court now, and we will not rest until we know the names of the real culprits and they have been punished. But if we look at the failed plans for our healthy environment, we should remember that in 2001 the first Orbán government made a decision to create a military locator at one of the peaks of the Mecsek, the Zingő. Then, after this was successfully prevented by the inhabitants of the area, by a genuine cooperation between civil green organizations, the Gyurcsány government decided in 2005 to implement this particular military locator on Mount Nagy-Tubes above the city of Pécs. And then the entire population of Pécs made it very clear that he would not accept this, Pécs would not allow that. The left-liberal government and the left-wing city leadership wanted to do this in Pécs, but they couldn't do it, the city of Pécs joined forces, and together we were able to prevent this outrageous plan. We've succeeded, this locator hasn't been built on Mount Tubes. Fidesz local politicians in opposition at the time tried to lead the protest, they took part in this fight at the time, and they tried to take the majority side at that time, obviously with the intention of political gain. But now, when the Fidesz government wants to create a nuclear cemetery a few kilometers from our city, the local politicians of Fidesz will do nothing. You could say that if it were up to the Fidesen, it might be built six, seven, eight kilometers from the western border of the nuclear cemetery Pécs. We have been fighting these outrageous plans since 2013, we have organised countless forums, and we have tried to give every means to Pécs and its region to prevent this outrageous plan from happening together. We can see, hear, read in Pécs, because the local Fidesz politicians, who are currently in opposition, believe that the city of Pécs has no right to express its opinion on a possible investment that endangers, say, the natural resources of Pécs. You can see that government plans have been made for many cities to set up battery factories, and the local Fidesz is of the opinion that the city has no right to give an opinion on this. That's quite unacceptable. It is not just a political catch or an election campaign tool for us to ask the Pécs, I think they can see everywhere the Pécs, or at least in many places, that we try to be in public squares, in the fair, and we take advantage of all the forums in order to listen to the views of the people in the city. [[15.20]] We have been on the street for weeks, and we certainly get the opinion from the people of Pécs and Pécs that the population of Pécs does not support any investment that endangers the water base of Pécs and its region or endangers our natural environment. I think that the government should take note of this, and that the pro-government politicians in Pécs should also be aware of it, and that their work should not be done locally as some sort of governor, but should accept the decision of the Pécs. We believe that Pécs has a clear decision: Pécs wants to strengthen its economy based on sustainability, and this must be respected. No one can endanger the natural environment of our city, and no one can politicalize against the interests and intentions of the population of Pécs. Thank you very much.
u2023-04-17-190	Thank you very much, Congressman László Keresztes. What has this people done to you? Mr Péter Jakab asked for an address on the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-04-17-191	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues! Let me ask you something right now, honestly. Why do you hate Hungarian so much? What harm has this people done to you to treat him like this? What has the Hungarian worker done to you to get the worst salary in the Union? What did the pensioner who ran out of money in the middle of the snow hurt you? What did the doctor or the teacher who was threatened with firing you, or the law enforcement worker who was being taken away from the service pension, or the home nurse who was humiliated with HUF 45,000 a month? What has this people done to you for which you deserve this? ! Colleagues! The Hungarian man will die, he works so much, and he doesn't come from one to two, neither he nor the country, only you. You, let's say, split, that's a fact, while the mother is forced to explain to her own child every day at the store why she can't even buy the cheaper one, I don't know, cottage cheese, because she can't afford it. Yesterday, at the delicacy, a pensioner asked for two slices, not 20 ounces, not 10 ounces, two slices. Here we go. While the Prime Minister is eating lobster on the beach, he's talking about fasting this year. Well, he's not fasting, you can see it, but the people have been fasting for 13 years, but the point is, we have to build stadiums and a half-foot view and a canopy board without a canopy, and I can't find churches in Mexico and a hospital in Vietnam. You've got to be kidding me. The battery companies are here. They're getting $65 million in state aid at work. $65 million a day. In return, they destroy the soil, the water, the air, and they don't even employ Hungarians. Colleagues! Why don't we give all this money to Hungarian people, to Hungarian workers, to Hungarian small entrepreneurs, to have something to raise wages, to develop, to expand, to modernise, to spend, to buy, to spin the economy? If we were to support the Hungarian and not the capitalist foreigner, it would prove to be a living place, where people do not live off the minimum wage and work. This country could be a viable place where people are financially strong, or free, because only the person who is free financially, who cannot be threatened existentially, who cannot be bought with potatoes or anyone else. And that is precisely why you do not support Hungarians. You know very well that the poor man is much easier to threaten than the wealthy. That is the case, fellow Members, that is what we are talking about, not anything else, you are deliberately keeping the people in poverty. The Prime Minister's Chief Economic Advisor said: Hungary's competitive advantage is that Hungarians work cheaply. No, fellow Members, this is just a competitive advantage for you and a tragedy for the country, because after 13 years of Fidesz domination, we are now Hungarians, the poorest nation of the European Union, and we are now at the point that every third Hungarian lives under the minimum living age, and the longer Fidesz stays, the more you will live like this. If someone still doesn't understand, if someone still doesn't understand: the People's Party Movement is fighting for a new election. You, fellow Members, have money to wait for 2026 and the people don't, the formula is that simple. Lose the wheel! Let the people win! Justice for the Hungarians!
u2023-04-17-192	Thank you very much, Congressman Peter James. Balázs Barkóczi, a representative of DK, applied for a post-meeting speech. with a district title. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-04-17-193	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, In my speech after the last agenda, I spoke about where the Fidesz frustration caused by the 2018 interim and then the loss of the 2019 general municipal elections led to in my constituency, the XV. District and Newpesten. Since then, the Orbán government has wanted to show itself strong in such a way that tens and hundreds of billions of people, the citizens of Crab Palota, Pestújhely and New Palota, will suffer withdrawal. It is not enough to have an abstract business tax and vehicle tax during the pandemic, the cancelled parking revenues, the increased solidarity tax, the stopped health projects, or the multiple local government fees, Fidesz would now take the professional clinics operating in the so far municipal reserve, as Fidesz recently plans to transfer municipal property, i.e. all of our common assets, to the churches. The leadership of Rákospalota, Pestújhely and Újpalota must work and carry out their duties in such a way every day, but the majority of DK leaders and oppositions are XV. In recent years, the district has been able to show what it is like to really serve the inhabitants of politics and provide tangible solutions to their everyday problems. In recent years, we have achieved results in a wide range of areas. However, it was not easy, because the district was hit not only by government withdrawals, but also by the bad memory mementos of the former Fidesz city administration, such as the torso Deák street practice, the Spiral House of New Palota, which had been handed over in an unrated state of technology at the time, or the political gamble that played on the inability of the district, when the former Fidesz majority refused to vote repeatedly on the district's budget, not only causing indecision, but also hindering important local developments. However, 2018, 2019 and 2022 were milestones in the district's life, because in recent years, developments that have finally served the lives and interests of the inhabitants, all of us. For a short list, I say it without the need for completeness. The renovation of Erdőcúró utca and Zsókavár utca has started in the entire phase of the last year, the renewed road sections are expected to be re-used by the residents of the district from July this year. The 15th edition was also renewed. Drégelyvár utca overpass connecting the district with Zugló, whose reconstruction had been in vain for years, the Budapest leadership prior to 2019 delayed the start of the technical construction for a long, long time. But to mention not only the projects carried out together with the capital, it renewed itself and received a completely new outer casing next year's 50-year-old New Palota Várcsarnok, and the more than a kilometer long, recortan-covered Páskom park runway was built to serve the sports and leisure activities of these people. But we have also achieved important results in the area of public security. The municipalities of Rákospalota, Pestújhely and Újpalota have already supported the district police, fire department and district vigilantes with tens of millions of HUF. In cooperation with the district police commissioner, we have established the Month Police Award, each month recognising and financially appreciating the work of uniforms serving in the district. We have also extended the vehicle park of the public area control, today we provide four cars with the right public area monitoring presence in the district. As part of the patrol in the district public parks, so far 19 300 hours of service have been performed by public area inspectors. Of course, the district has not been idle in the social field either. Within the framework of the Palace grants, we provided pharmaceutical support to the residents 5500 times, and nearly a thousand local families received child protection support, and we supported the XV. district talent. It is also apparent from the above short list that, in spite of the government's withdrawal, Article XV of the Act provides that: The district remained viable, and, thanks to opposition leadership, it has become more livable in recent years. And it is the responsibility of all of us to preserve our common achievements for the inhabitants, Rákospalota, Pestújhely and New Palace, because the district is finally in good hands. Thank you so much for listening.
u2023-04-17-194	Thank you very much, Congressman Barkóczi. Why are the Székesfehérvár people being punished because of increased government withdrawal? The secretary of DK, Judit Ráczné Földi, asked to speak after the agenda. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2023-04-17-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The government's failed economic policy, inflation in Orbán, is putting local governments and residents in an increasingly difficult position. In this situation, the government is always using the same tool: it raises taxes, lowers subsidies, requires compulsory savings, stops investments, closes mail and continues to sabotage local governments. [[15.30]] The fundamental problem is that the Hungarian economy's career has been screwed up to such an extent that the Hungarian population and Hungarian entrepreneurs are paying for it today. The result of this economic policy is inflation, i.e. the deterioration of money. The price of holding power was that there is now inflation, real wage cuts, tax increases and others as a burden. The government doesn't spare the municipal sector either. It expects the well-performing municipalities to pay an increasing amount of solidarity contributions. Local authorities therefore need not only to cover increased energy costs, other expenditure lost due to inflation, but also to pay more and more to the State. Unfortunately, therefore, the municipalities will have no choice but to introduce austerity measures affecting local residents and businesses, to increase taxes and fees. With this, the government shifts its unpopular action to local settlements, their leaders. In the case of Székesfehérvár, this is no different. The city's budget for 2023 pays more than HUF 800 million higher than the previous year's solidarity contribution. The city is now at HUF 6.6 billion a year. The use of the solidarity contribution by the paying municipalities is not known, they do not see, it is put into the big hat, its further fate is unknown. The budget of the city of Székesfehérvár is also charged with the payment of world VAT. The municipality could pay up to HUF 650 million less VAT on energy costs and food expenses than on priority items. The car tax, which has been lost since 2021, is another HUF 400-420 million revenue loss for the city. That's more than 7.5 billion forints a year. You could spend so much more on the city's own investments, maintenance of roads, modernization of kindergartens, nursery schools and social institutions. That's what the government takes away from Székesfehérvár every year. Székesfehérvár collects significant revenues from local taxes and parking charges. In order to counterbalance the negative effects on the economy of Székesfehérvár, the Fidesz majority assembly has taken austerity measures several times in the last year which ultimately involve the Fehérvár and the companies in Fehérvár. The austerity package of August 2022 included 142 fees, totaling HUF 300 million a year from the people of Fehérvár. Among other things, parking charges, burial costs, public area charges, marriage fees and bus transport charges were raised. Then, from 2023, there will be further increases, i.e. the increase in the construction tax of HUF 1.7 billion, the increase in the price of parking tickets and the increase in the fee for public use. These are all increases that directly or indirectly affect local residents, and they are paying more and more for services. As a result of the increase in the construction tax, many companies can only raise their employees' wages at significantly lower rates. From the local business tax, the state has been obliged to finance local public transport since 2019, which must be done by the State Volánbusz and MOL, and indeed, this is also a state withdrawal, which hurts the people of Székesfehérvár. For the people of Székesfehérvár, the only hope for Hungary to belong to Europe now is the shadow government led by Klára Dobrev. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Balázs Barkóczi applauds.]]
u2023-04-17-196	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Judit Ráczné Earth. Member Sándor Bodó, representative of Fidesz, also applied for a post-scheduled speech with the title of the Bishop's Lady wrestling hall. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-04-17-197	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, I have good news for the 5th constituency of Hajdú-Bihar County. Of course, it is not just this wrestling hall that we have enjoyed in recent years, since there have been a number of infrastructure improvements that make life easier for people living there. Of course, I could also talk about the renovation of municipal facilities or the tourism, food and agricultural development, but there is a separate group that certainly deserves to be discussed here in the House of Parliament, as well as the importance of these developments. These are sports development and, in particular, school, recreational port development. In the previous years, we managed to establish a gymnasium in three settlements: Sárrétudvari, Kaba, Role, and solved the problem that really existed for several years now, so that everyday physical education would have a suitable location. This is a huge step forward with regard to supply training, but of course these facilities not only serve sports purposes, but they can also essentially provide the home of the public life of those settlements. Indeed, as I noted in the title of my comment, I indicated that we had come to another development in Bishop's Lady, namely: a wrestling hall was established. A wrestling hall, the significance of which I could say is that it is essentially a constantly furnished facility used by heavy athletics, which is very, very important, because so far, the heavy athletes, wrestlers, had to share the facility with other sports, and this had a peculiarity due to the speciality of the sport, that the carpets had to be packed all the time, the races had to be decorated separately, and now they have a home of their own. This is very important, because the Episcopladány Heavy Athletic Association, the bishopladányi wrestlers, is in essence not only leading the city, but also in the region, and I can even say that they are the centers of this wonderful sport in the entire region of Hajdú-Bihar. The importance of wrestling in this House is not something that does not need to be described in particular, it is an ancient sport, one of the most successful in the Olympics from the point of view of Hungarian competitors, but it also needs to be done to keep it that way. In this situation, this virtually continuously open sports hall can provide guarantees that children can provide training not only in the early afternoon, but also during a later period adapted to the student's activities, or even during the evening hours for young adults. This wrestling hall is an investment based on policy, supported by the Wrestling Federation, thanks for it. There is some time lag in the implementation of the plans, but this, frankly, was due to the fact that the wrestling association itself was not prepared to carry out such an investment, so it was necessary for a central government player, a local government, to enter this investment, and this is how this sports hall was completed, the size of which I can say is nearly 500 square meters, providing the use of two permanent wrestling mats and the corresponding service rooms. The cost of the investment is nearly 400 million forints, and I think it is very important to note that when this facility was built, it was already built, they thought that it might be difficult for energy supplies, so we can talk about a facility equipped with solar panels, perhaps the most efficient mechanical care. This is how the wrestling hall stands now, but of course we have other plans in the field of supply sports. It is enough, perhaps, to mention a series of outdoor gym parks, which have already been completed in a number of settlements, but this task is still waiting for us in the constituency on Earth, and we hope to continue the schooling program as soon as the economic situation can ensure it. Here, Bishop's Lady is one of the prodigals, but I think that these investments will also be able to fill a gaping role in Tiszacsege, which prepares children for a healthy lifestyle, the right condition, that is to say, they will make a full man, spiritually, physically, mentally prepared. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Mónika Bartos applauds.]]
u2023-04-17-198	Thank you very much, Congressman Sándor Bodo. Mr Dócs, representative of Mi Hungary, asked to speak after the agenda entitled Current Public Affairs. You have the floor, Congressman. [[15.40]]
u2023-04-17-199	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, I would like to bring an example to the House from my narrower country, the county of Nógrád, because when we talk in the spirit of the green future, it seems that the government that is currently Regent and, say, I or the Hungarian Movement have completely different views. In the spirit of the green future, I would like Nógrád County, which is our most forested county, to be more than 44 percent forested county, a tourist paradise, to give active and passive recreation to tourists and guests from either the capital city or the agglomeration or elsewhere. However, we can see that under the green idea Fidesz set the construction of battery factories as the main direction, and we can say that as a strategic direction and renewable energy, of course, we can also support it, unless there are hundreds of hectares of solar parks in Hungarian fields. But let's go back to the battery company and the battery companies, and we have a problem with that. The most emblematic example of battery plant construction is the well-known Debrecen battery factory, which is now being built, a foreign multi-party trying to invest its capital here for the time being, and then to take the big profits produced here out of the country. All this is done by building on the best soils in the country, 45 crowns of gold. What I would like to urge here, in the House walls, is that, if you are going to think green, then perhaps instead of greenfield investments, you should use brownfield investments to obtain and achieve any kind of industrial development. In the case of Mr Salgótarján, which is the seat of the county seat of my narrower country, we cannot really support this either, as it doesn't matter where these brownfield investments would be carried out, because in Salgótarján the steel factory used to work for nearly 5,000 people, in almost 36 hectares, and now it looks like this area has been purchased by a Győr entrepreneur; instead of 5 thousand people, it will provide 80 people with work, and the future will also have a green mind to break the battery, because the batteries that didn't work will be broken down here, and besides other substances that are dangerous to the environment and human life and health will be destroyed and disarmed here. The geographical location of Salgótarján should be known to be situated in a valley, in a barn, and therefore residents rightly fear that there is a high risk of harm to health in addition to or as a result of this activity, since we know that in these factories it is usually only possible to work in a gas mask, since it is practically dangerous compounds that emerge during the demolition of these batteries that can seriously damage the human body. Recently, there was leading news when dozens of people were taken from a factory in Komárom-Esztergom County with the same symptoms, including nosebleeds. It's not really environmentally friendly technology. Therefore, I think the locals are rightly afraid of what their beloved city will become. If you have to take the lead in something, we in Nógrád County do, but it's usually the other way around. We're at the end of the line, which gives us the lead. Even at European level, the most backward walk is the terraces of the brook, followed by the Salgótarjáni. In both districts, such a battery production or demolition facility or company has already been established. This predicts exactly what future they're imagining for us. It was recently heard here by György Matolcsy, President of the Central Bank, who pointed out that virtually 18 percent of battery production can produce added value. I think that the intellectuals of the future will not be able to find their place in our beloved county after the settlement of such factories, so we would like this battery production not to be a major strategic direction for the government, but to somehow let go of this idea, and not to operate as a dangerous waste dump place for our beloved county and our beloved country, not to pollute the land and water, but to simply try to get the government on the path that is for us, because Hungary is an agricultural country, agriculture is the future, I think we should base it on this. We have everything we need, but if we're wasting a lot of time, it's a question of whether this process is still reversible. Therefore, in conclusion, I would like to ask, on behalf of the Salgótarjáns and the entire population of the country, that the Fidesz government is trying to reevaluate and change this direction until it is too late. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-04-17-200	Thank you very much, Congressman Dócs. Mr Ander Balázs, representative of Jobbik, also applied for a post-meeting speech: Children's Protection! It's an address. You have the floor.
u2023-04-17-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday, exactly a month ago, I submitted a written question about how many terrible tragedies would still have to happen in order to realise that there are huge problems in the area of child protection and that substantial measures will finally be taken. Recent horrific events inspired this written question, since inexplicable and unforgivable tragedies have occurred for foster children. Not long ago, her foster parents boiled a ten-month-old child to death, and then her foster mother beat a so-called two-year-old boy to death. Dog chain strangled me inexplicable circumstances with a little autism, and now here's the birch church case, when a two-and-a-half-year-old child was the victim, and the little sister, according to press reports, had to be taken to the hospital with injuries on her body and underfed. There are terrible coincidences, there is negligence, and there is evil. We're hoping the police will find out what's behind all these tragedies. But one thing is certain. These cases show that the foster care system is creaking. All respect is due to foster parents who pursue this difficult and challenging profession, who wholeheartedly strive to develop the physical and spiritual development of children in their care in a way that serves their happiness. But it has to be said that there are also unfit people, and besides the notion of ageing as a crime, childhood has also appeared, and in front of these people there are only dollar signs, money is seen, nothing else, not the need to care for the child who has been entrusted to their care. On the part of the ruling party, in connection with the Óbuda ephebophile or paedophile, the need to punish pedophiles has reappeared, child protection is necessary. That's right, all Kaleta-like beings should be punished as severely as possible, so the Jobbik-Conservatives have no maintenance whatsoever. But just to say it now, not only do we need strict laws, but we need to ask ourselves: where is prevention and where is victim support? The child protection warning system and the basic care system are also facing serious problems. With regard to workers in the social field, in difficult circumstances, it must be said that yes, there is burnout; yes, because of the extra stress, there is a huge turnover, a huge emigration, and there is a contrast. And when one deals with this on a written question or in such a speech, the panel answer comes from the pro-government part: there is a political mood, but we do not, quite simply think in a responsible way, and we try to find a solution to a real problem. And if it is responsible thinking: indeed, responsible thinking as such is a conservative concept, in many cases political correctness advocates immediately scream fattva when it is said, and if we use the definition of a French essayist writer, Pascal Bruckner's definition of what political correctness is, he said that he was allergic to the name, sweeping under the carpet of difficult questions, metaphors instead of saying things, forced to use it. Well, we say that there is such a thing as having a responsible child, there is such a thing as conscious and responsible family planning. And then here I would like to quote some classics; let's say, Attila Lakatos, the Gypsy Butterfly of Borsodi, who said he had the courage to say, quite rightly, that the child is not an animal, but a responsibility. Or I would quote the Roma expert, István Forgács, who said: I am not one of you if you think that giving birth at a young age and giving birth to poverty are cultural rights and values; or I could bring up my friend, the leader of the Gypsy minority self-government in Gyékényes, Zolit Balogh, who recently said this in our conversation: if we have taken on the child, let us raise it fairly, but there is no other way than work. [[15.50]] Well, there's the responsibility of the state. This should not be silenced, but it is the responsibility of the individual and his environment. The mother of this two-and-a-half-year-old child, 17 years old, has given birth to three children. The question should be asked of the environment that has made this unfortunate young mother a victim, by the way. What stone - age standards do they live by where they tolerate virtually supporting the use of a young, developing organization in a school bench as a birthing machine? Where is child protection in this case? It would be nice to have the answers to these. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of our country.]]
u2023-04-17-202	Thank you very much, Congressman Ander Balázs. Dear Parliament, That concludes the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next Spring Session is expected to take place on 2 May 2023. Thank you for your work. Have a nice spring day. The meeting's closed.
