u2023-03-27-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 7th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear House, Dear Parliament, I am fulfilling my sad duty to announce that Csaba Schmidt died in the 44th year of our former colleague's life. Csaba Schmidt obtained a mandate from the regional list of Komárom-Esztergom county as a candidate for Fidesz in the 2010 parliamentary elections, and was a member of the Parliament for a term. Under his mandate, he assisted the work of the Committee on Local Government and Territorial Development and the Committee on Sustainable Development. He was the deputy mayor of Tatabánya from 2006 and was elected mayor of the county seat in 2010. From 2020 he was Chancellor of the Tatabánya Vocational Training Centre. I beg of you, before the memory of our fellow Member, let us salute you with silent bows. [[The people in this room stand up and salute the memory of the deceased.]] Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2015, the National Assembly declared the day of commemoration 27 March, II. The day of the birth of Ferenc Rákóczi, with which he honors the memory of the prince, the sworn and those who fight with him. ANNEX II Ferenc Rákóczi, as a member of one of the most important Hungarian historical families, took on the heavy burden of the fate of our country and our nation, driven by a sense of responsibility and patriotism, and represented the interests of the nation without compromise until his death. Rákóczi tried to unite the nation in an extremely bad country, in an unfavourable foreign policy environment, regardless of social, religious, linguistic and ethnic differences. After the declaration of independence started 320 years ago, the personal fate of Rákóczi and his most loyal associates was sealed, but the long struggle and the peace of Satmar ensured the survival of the Hungarian state of order, prevented the country from sinking into Habsburg's holding and allowed for the political-social-economic development that later developed during the reform and the next great war of freedom. Dear Parliament, The prince's memory is the eternal source of Hungarian independence and freedom fighter aspirations and movements. For a wide range of Hungarian society, Rákóczi and his fellow fugitives have been exalted as symbols of domestic independence, the hopeful destinies of the rightful fate, and the figures who struggled against the suppression of the landlord and the Habsburg. And most of the Hungarian nobility began to truly identify with Rákóczi's memory when II. He sought historical examples of Joseph's raped reforms. In the Hungarian Reform Age, Rákóczi's cult was further strengthened, not only in the political narratives, but also as a recurring form of social and musical works. It was referred to as an example during the Hungarian Revolution and War of Independence in 1848-49, when the Rákóczi-starter, which was already popular in the Reform era, became a permanent musical element of the general assembly, the troops, the battlefields and festives, where free teams and troops were named after the prince and his companions. The later independence movements also reached back to Rákóczi's memory, but at that time they became a symbol of freedom together with the shape of Lajos Kossuth. Ladies and gentlemen, I close the memorial with the lines of Sándor Petőfi, who was born 200 years ago this year, as another freedom-loving figure of our glorious history: the saint of Hungary, the leader of freedom / our bright star in the dark night, / Oh Rákóczi, to whom we burn and we cry! Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause.]] Dear Parliament, We will continue our work with speeches before the agenda. To speak before the agenda, Mrs Bernadett Bakos, the LMP Group, spoke with a title on our current affairs. You have the floor.
u2023-03-27-1	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Three important things have happened in recent years in the case of battery factories designed for Hungary. On the one hand, hundreds of people in Győr protested with us because they did not want to build a battery factory next to the city in Győr. Civilians and LMP have jointly demonstrated that not only in Debrecen, but in any city in the country, Hungarians do not want to sacrifice our land, our waters, our living environment on the altar of profit hunger for foreign corporations. On the other hand, unfortunately less surprisingly, the NVB rejected the LMP referendum initiative which would have stated that such factories could not be built without the explicit approval of the people there. And finally, thirdly, the government has gone through another week of pretending that this debate doesn't exist. They went through another week when they didn't even try to argue for their own position. A clear picture emerges from the three events. Hungarian people have a very strong opinion that they do not want Hungary to be turned into a battery ring. They would also like to express this, but the government is not willing to hold this debate, but rather wants to suppress it. Only one of the tools for this is the NVB, which has worked in the last ten years by examining not the content of each question submitted, but only the person submitting it. The referendum law can be written down in practically one sentence: if the Fidesz initiates a referendum, the answer is yes; if the opposition, the answer is no. However, we would like to indicate that we are still not giving up. We have said that we will seize all existing legal and political instruments in order not to allow them to turn this country into a battery ring. [[13.10]] That is why we attacked the environmental permit of the Debrecen factory, which is why we organized a demonstration in Debrecen and Győr, and that is why we are collecting signatures for our national petition in every part of the country, as it is our duty as a green party. [[Bence Rétvári: There are more of you as a green couple now.]] We must act now, this plan must be prevented now, because the next time we hold parliamentary elections, it will be too late, by then these factories have caused irreversible damage. We see that, not only did the government not hear the voices of the protesters, but it has already been announced that gas plants will be built during the gas crisis, all in order to generate Russian gas to those Chinese factories that will produce batteries in German cars. The government doesn't slow down, doesn't listen to people, doesn't take sides. Therefore, from tomorrow, we will continue to fight with even greater momentum, and we are convinced that the result of this fight will also be. A few years ago, when Viktor Orbán withdrew his draft for the Internet tax, he justified that we are not communists to govern against the people. This is exactly what they are about to do, because all the relevant research shows that the Hungarian people do not want these factories. And the will of the people is indeed like a flooded river: it can be guided for a while, but after a while it will break its way. The situation now looks like the government is building dams, we're trying to punch a hole in them, and the water is on our side. So we're gonna do three things. On the one hand, since the reasons for the current decision are ridiculous, we will attack it. We hope that the second degree will have real results, here the second degree will look at the legislation and not just the person who submitted it. On the other hand, we are also introducing a new question, examining the current argument and clarifying our questions on this basis. And we're gonna do this until they have no choice but to let us through. Thirdly, we continue to collect signatures, as we would like to show that the majority of people do not agree with the government on this issue, the Hungarian people do not want Hungary to become a battery ring, this is what Fidesz wants and companies that fear their foreign profits. But even you cannot afford to govern permanently against the will of the people. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the lines of LMP, MSZP and Dialogue.]]
u2023-03-27-2	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Tamás Menczer wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2023-03-27-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, allow me to respond to you saying that we are not going to take the debate. That is why we have come together, so this is also a rebuttal of what you have said to us today in Parliament. I am pleased to have this debate with you before the agenda. The other, if I may, before we arrive at the battery companies, is that we do not forget that you are criticising the government on an economic policy and industrial policy issue. Let us not forget, however, that the political community to which you and your party belong has already destroyed this country economically and in all other respects. So let us record this starting point when we listen to your criticism and examine it. The third is, and on top of the batteries and the battery companies, honourable Member, there are facts, and it is not a problem if we start from the facts. One of the facts is that, although he made little reference to this in his speech, it is true that electromobility and battery companies are actually experiencing a new phenomenon, they are not very new, but they are relatively new. So, of course, it is understandable that people have questions or fears about them. I fully agree that answers should be given to these issues and fears, correct answers should be given, true answers should be given, but I cannot support political hysteria. I would also like to bring so much here in the presence of the leader of the group that, after the election defeat, Mr. Group leader said that after the parliamentary defeat on the left, the LMP no longer wants to represent the policy that the left led by Ferenc Gyurcsány, they appreciated the situation and drew the right conclusions. By the way, I consider this to be a commendable and respectable intellectual and political activity and achievement. It is a pity that there is nothing left of this today, and you say exactly what Ferenc Gyurcsány led all the other left-wing parties. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Let's get some facts here. The fact that the European Union has decided that after 2035 only cars that are environmentally friendly can be manufactured. 1. [[A statement from the opposition.]] It's also... no, it was confirmed yesterday, Congressman. 2. It is also a fact that in Hungary hundreds of thousands of families make a living in the automotive industry, not regardless of the fact that in 2010, when we took over the country's leadership, the Orbán government took over from the failing predecessors on the left, unemployment was 11-12 percent, jobs had to be created, this was one of the important aspects, families having jobs, regular incomes, and the car industry has a key role to play in this. So the livelihoods of hundreds of thousands of families depend on the automotive industry, and this hundreds of thousands of families can keep their jobs and regular incomes and economic growth if the western automotive companies in this area are able to find their way here, understanding the challenges and tasks of the future. Car companies are Western, but I would also like to inform you that the ten largest battery companies in the world are Eastern, seven Chinese and three South Korean companies, and for these battery companies there is a huge competition. In the United States, 40 such battery factories are planned to be set up. The other day, someone yelled "yes," but they're gonna build them in the desert. All 40 of them? Don't be ridiculous. In Germany, 14 such factories are planned to be built. The Chinese CATL factory, which you most attacked, is already operating in Tiringa, France under the applause of the left-wing Greens, and Renault is working with a Chinese-Japanese consortium, and this could be classified for a long time. The president of the Slovak automotive association begs with a little exaggeration to install such a factory in their country, because they are lagging behind. And one more thing, my dear House. In closing, it brought energy here. You claim that these factories cannot be powered. That's not true, but that's not what I wanted to talk about in the first place. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] I'm talking about... Your request to me, Congressman Tordai, although we did not agree on a call, is an order. So energy needs to be supplied to these companies, and the necessary investments will be made by the government. But let me say this is similar to the time when you're courting a pretty woman with ten more seconds of patience from Mr. President. Sometimes it's hard to put the job into it, but that doesn't make it the answer to let it go, because we know it's gonna end well. [[Interventions and noise in opposition lines.]] It is the same with battery companies: work must be put into it, energy must be provided, we will, but in the end it will be good, trust the numbers and the facts. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-03-27-4	Reply to the pre-meeting address Ms Rebecca Szabó, Dialogue Group [[Noise.]] If I may ask the factions to my left, please pay attention to the congresswoman -:... Dialogues- Greens for Green Hungary, for Green Europe! It's an address. You have the floor.
u2023-03-27-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The recent report by the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change also shows that the climate disaster is not a possible threat, but is taking place in the present. We're at an average temperature rise of 1.1 degrees. [[13.20]] And it doesn't just involve extreme temperatures and storms, but it already costs thousands of lives. We also see in Hungary that in winter there is little snow, in summer droughts or flood-like rains. However, the Hungarian government deliberately hides its head in the sand. It cements our soils with battery factories, puts the country's water resources in serious danger, and, by the way, kicks out water managers who dare to draw attention to it. There's been a constant waste of water in the country. In addition to global soil degradation, there is virtually no agriculture in Hungary that provides soil protection, dust storms cause mass accidents, and organic sample farms are plowed for political revenge. They also allow cuttings in protected forests, and when it comes to renewable energy increases, they only seek excuses and want to avoid EU recommendations. They will continue to destroy our lakeside, to integrate our natural habitats; but I will not mention it any further, because this would exhaust the framework of the speech before the five-minute agenda. And while these sustainability goals are not being met, there is also a serious social crisis in the country. There is no access to basic health services, teachers and students can count their requests in vain, food prices are skyrocketing, and inflation in Orbán is much higher than in neighbouring countries. What we need to see is that the root of these crises is the same: the wasteful, resource-intensive, unsustainable economic system based on the exploitation of the environment and man, and the dilettante system created by the Orbán government comes to the top of everything in Hungary, based solely on public money and propaganda. This eco-social crisis, both at home and globally, occurs legally because we do not acknowledge that a planet with finite natural resources cannot grow infinitely. In view of these problems, more and more people in Hungary are discovering green values, more and more people are trying to do something about living in a healthier and more sustainable world and giving it up to their children. The only way to deal with crises is to build a green Europe and in it a green Hungary. We must represent the green principles and enforce green solutions at all levels of decision-making, both locally, nationally and in the European Union. With a fair green transition, we must tackle the social and ecological crisis at the same time. In the spirit of this, we too, as a green party, are fighting the problems already listed, so let us say again that we should long ago go ahead with the renovations of the self-contained residential building, the development of renewable energy. That is why we also proposed the introduction of a four-day working week. That is why it is very important for us that the highest directly elected public office is held by a green politician, Mayor Gergely Karácsony in the colours of the Dialogue-Greens, and that green politicians work not only in the first district of Budapest, but in many municipalities, who do these green changes locally. Therefore, we have already started preparing for the local elections in 2024, where we will strive with all our means to increase the number of Dialogue-Greens on the one hand and the number of representatives and local government leaders with a green commitment, whether they are members of any party or movement, or whether they are civil or independent candidates. That is why we consider it very important to have a Hungarian Green Representative again in the European Parliament. Benedek Jávor has proven [[Defiance on the pro-government side.]] During the 2014-19 cycle, the European taxpayer association chose it as the best Green Representative. That is why I think it is important that yesterday the Congress of Dialogue-Greens elected Jávor Benedek as the leader of the European Parliament's list. Thus, the possibility has been opened, if the voters so wish, for a proven green politician to represent green Hungary in Europe and green Europe in Hungary. We must all see that the climate crisis and the ecological crisis are destroying not only nature but also our society. Action is no longer a green demand, not a luxury, not a hobby of rich countries, but a simple self-defense. If we want to live on this planet and not just our grandchildren, but ourselves, then we need to act with incredible speed and intensity. We, on behalf of the Dialogue-Greens, are ready to move this matter forward, move the issue of sustainability forward. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the lines of Dialogue and MSZP.]]
u2023-03-27-6	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Zsófia Koncz wishes to reply. You have the floor.
u2023-03-27-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to begin by saying that I think that we agree that Hungary is among the first to make a commitment to becoming a climate-neutral country by 2050. In this context, we have identified a number of points in the climate and nature conservation action plan, and we are working on these objectives in practice. Now, in the meantime, a war broke out in our neighbourhood, and it must be said that the Jávor Benedek, mentioned by you, who, as we have heard, will be the EP-list leader of the Dialogue, many times fought for the war, and he said in this regard: , and we must bring further sanctions against Russia, to the areas that have not been affected so far, thus extending the restrictions to the energy markets as well. We need more extensive, comprehensive economic pressure, which also affects energy markets. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, If we look at it, we can see that we are talking about a war situation, and in this connection there are sanctions that clearly put European people and, of course, Hungarian people in a very difficult situation, because this also causes energy crisis and inflation. I think that your position is clearly not in the interests of the Hungarian people. Hungarians have no interest in developing an energy situation in which there is no affordable energy or that we cannot talk about energy at all. In recent years, a number of measures have been taken by the government to strengthen our energy independence, energy diversification. We have said this several times, but I think it should be pointed out that since 1990 this government has done practically the most for the construction of interconnectors. It's an important thing. In 2010, we only had an interconnector to Austria and Ukraine, and now we connected our high-voltage power grid in all directions outside Slovenia, and all seven of the seven neighbouring countries. What we see is that energy is often done on a business basis. This happened when we tried to obtain a different type of natural gas in relation to the Black Sea gas field, and if an American and Austrian company hadn't let us down, we could say that, for example, in terms of diversification, we could be different. Hungary signed a contract with them, they were supposed to start transporting 3 billion cubic metres of gas a year from 1 January 2023, but they withdrew from the contract, saying it was not worth it, and they withdrew. I would only bring these here because I think that words and actions often do not really meet, and we Hungarians have to work to produce as much energy as possible at home. Congresswoman has also raised the issue of solar panels. I think that we have achieved incredible capacities in this regard, and we have a plan to achieve even more capacity in the future. However, this requires a large number of conventional power plants to compensate for weather-dependent renewables, and here in Tiszaújváros and Visonta power plants a total of 1600 megawatts of modern power generation can be created. These combined cycle gas turbine power plants can be quickly built, with high efficiency and low CO2 emissions. New blocks can be based on thousands of megawatted solar capacity systems. In the meantime, while we are working on such things, I would like to draw the honourable Member's attention to the increasing reliance in Germany, for example, on natural gas imported from Russia in most of the majority, and even to the gradual re-launch of coal power plants that had already been shut down last year. In October a total of 12 coal-fired power plants were switched back on. I think it's good to see these processes. In this case, it may be worth consulting the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Change of the Green Party. I'd like to bring Paks' question here. We're working on it, and we're hoping it's Paks I.'s extension and Paks II. We will be able to increase domestic energy production to a very large extent by building it. And Congresswoman personally lobbied for Paks II. against its construction. I would like to ask the Group of Dialogue to support the Government's position on energy sovereignty issues for Hungary. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-27-8	I thank the Secretary of State for her reply. Dear Parliament, László Toroczkai, leader of the group, Mi Hazank Group, asked for a pre-meeting speech. . What about the owners of drilled wells? It's an address. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader. [[13.30]]
u2023-03-27-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Government, I deliberately gave an exact address to my speech before the agenda, because my aim is to get concrete, exact answers. This is important not primarily for me, but for those of my fellow Hungarians who are legitimately concerned about it, because this year, i.e. until the end of 2023, the moratorium after which the wells that were drilled and, to a lesser extent, dug, which were previously unauthorized but not necessarily illegal, should be authorised. This is what we know so far, and we know that it is impossible to give an exact number, precisely because of the nature of the case, but it affects many, many of our compatriots. Yet it seems that they are not given sufficient information from the government, for some reason a national consultation or a billboard campaign has not started in this case, even though it is a matter of people's lives. For the hundreds of thousands of Hungarian compatriots who may be concerned about this, the expiry of the moratorium, a significant part of them are farmers, and if we destroy the farm society and agriculture, then even in Hungary there could be famine, or hundreds of thousands of our compatriots simply introduced it into their houses, so they use water from drilled wells as household water, where the state could not and cannot currently provide water supply. It seems that this, if you like, is the constitutional right of every Hungarian citizen to have access to water, without water it is not possible to run a household. At the same time, governments, the current Hungarian government, have been in a very serious failure for a very long time, for example, the Danube-Tisza Canal plan is 221 years old, and in 221 years the Hungarian governments have not built it, and today we see in the Danube-Tisza area what huge problems this deficit is. Then we also know that more water is actually leaving Hungary through our two large rivers than it is flowing into Hungary, while in recent years the farming community has been able to tell us what kind of drought and problems it has had to deal with. I can say with a calm heart, all the more so, because farmers came to me, that the famine mentioned earlier would have been famine with their words if they had not been able to irrigate if these wells had not worked. Compared to this, we know that this is supposed to be a Brussels requirement, we have joined or joined Hungary to the European Union since 2004, and in 2016 the current government started to address this EU requirement in principle. Seven years have passed since then, in the seven years we have not seen the Danube-Tisza channel being built, nor have we seen any concrete measures to solve this problem after the moratorium expires. Just to illustrate what this is about: for example, farmers who have built these drilled wells at their own expense and lead the water where agricultural production is needed for the water, according to current leaks, will cost about one million forints per well, while 400 thousand cubic metres per year is the water used for them, which should be used free of charge. Most farmers don't use this much water anyway, so it seems that they will only pay one million forints per well for bureaucracy. Those who use water for their households live in a place where the state cannot provide, say, fixed water, so that people living on farms, people living in villages, people living outside the country are talking about hundreds of thousands of Hungarian countrymen, and they can only manage their water supply from the well drilled. In this case, let's say they are required to have water tested in accredited labs. If it is not suitable, and it is almost certain that the quality of the water will not be adequate, then they will have to build a water purification system at their own expense, then they will have to pay either a soil load charge or lead the water to a closed, sunk container of concrete or plastic, which is about HUF 2 million in lower voice based on current prices. Once again, we do not need to be a great expert to say that hundreds of thousands of Hungarians will not be able to pay this bureaucratic fee, for which the state does not give anything, but only bureaucracy. So either the State or the State solves water supply for both agriculture and individual users, households; if it is unable to do so, then extend the moratorium. Currently, Hungary is not fit to end this moratorium at the end of 2023. Thank you and I look forward to concrete and reassuring answers for the Hungarians. Thank you. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-03-27-10	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Deputy Minister Sándor Farkas wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2023-03-27-11	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, I understand the question you raised, I am also President of the constituency, a Member of Parliament there close to the southern border, not so far from you, and the Hungarian farmers, the Hungarian farmers, I would say, are having the same problem, which you raised, so there is no disagreement between us from this point of view, so it is important to mention that, according to previous legislation, the survival, operation and elimination of the wells was always an activity subject to water permit. Nevertheless, and this is emphasised, a significant number of unauthorized wells have been created and drilled. The large number of wells that exist and operate without authorisation can partly be attributed to the complexity of the previous water permit procedure, the high cost of administrative and service charges, which have led a large number of people not to complete the permit procedure. It is estimated, as you have mentioned, that between 10 and 100,000 wells that are not currently reported and not known. It's only from the local survey that we can give you this number approximately. The construction of illegal wells was often done by people who were not prepared for this, who were not professionally competent, so there was also a case of several layers being drilled through, to some extent contaminated, and several layers of water was not preserved in the long term by the water quality that these water-giving areas had. Of course, the greatest danger could have been the unprofessional execution. Water sinking due to unauthorised use of water, which may have caused a significant part of a secondary drought, we need to focus more practically already in the last year, so that these water bases can survive and operate in the long term. I would also like to clarify that there is often confusion, and there is a lot of uncertainty about the concept of irrigation wells for agricultural purposes and wells for domestic needs, but the water management law also makes it very clear that the concept of these wells can also be stated very strongly, and we can insert the location of certain wells, the name and service of wells. Under the Water Management Act, an establishment or operator who submits an application for a water maintenance permit for a well intended to satisfy the household water demand until 31 December 2023 is exempted from payment of a water management fine. Under the current rules, a water reserve permit should be requested from the municipal municipality notary to satisfy the household water demand established or operated without authorisation or contrary to authorisation. I would like to note that the deadline for the submission of this request is indeed 31 December, but I think it is clear that the rules, regulations that are in force today, which concern the obligation to notify, should continue to be maintained, because this is what serves our water base, our water protection in the long term. But at the same time, in what you have suggested, how high the costs of this can be to create a well, which is either a direct drinking water base for the family or for locally raised animals, I am sure that the government will take a step in this very moment to reduce these costs and burdens, and will. That is why it is important that there are adequate soothing solutions in these areas. For the purpose of irrigation, agricultural wells, we can honestly say that the wells established after 2021, which have been drilled properly, I would add, are almost without exception subject to a water license, which concerns the issue of water rights permits under the authority of the National Earth Management Centre. So from this point of view, we must not... and they affect deeper layers, this is the essence of which affects deeper layers, in which this regulation is expected to continue. [[13.40]] I trust that a regulation will be put in place to protect both the population and our water bases under our feet. Please accept my reply. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-03-27-12	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Jobbik Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech:, How should we help the middle class and the needy families at the same time? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-03-27-13	Mr President, Dear House, It is customary for Parliament to clash with arguments and arguments, but the numbers are stubborn things, and I have two figures in front of me, which our pro-government fellow Members do not usually argue that neither do I. According to the first figure, inflation in February was still 25.4 percent. After a minimal decline, this situation seems like a rooftop, so let's hope it goes down as soon as possible. I would be happiest if we achieved one-digit inflation by the end of the year, but I would add that if inflation was to be 9 percent in December, it would still mean an annual average of over 17 percent. However, what is brutal, meaty data is still an outstanding measure of food price increase. Here, we have seen data of over 40 percent in the last few months, and we do not see any kind of pension payment, nor do we see any category of actions that would have increased by 40 percent, and as we look at the situation of our countrymen in the middle class, we see that the poorer a family, the greater part of its earnings is spent on food, typically on basic food, and where price increases are particularly irritating: child-rearing articles. And what we see is that even family support is inflected, so there is no form of income in the lives of Hungarian families that would keep up with this brutal increase. It can therefore be said that the government is unable to curb brutal inflation, and even the official price caps introduced by Fidesz make the situation worse in the long run, putting even more burden on Hungarian families [[Dr. László György Lukács: That's right!]] In addition, as it turns out, they lead to a shortage of goods and, where appropriate, to the destruction of retailers. For this reason, the community of Jobbik-Conservatives is determined to abolish the Authority's price caps immediately and to help those in need in a targeted way. Why is it worth erasing the price caps? It is possible to fix the price of six or seven basic foods, although as I see it, in the case of chicken breasts, this has not been fully achieved. But as long as the government does not do anything against the fact that, at the price of another six or seven thousand products, wholesalers and multi-company companies can build up their alleged or real costs without obstacles, the whole system will be increased to a much greater extent than the stagnation of some fixed prices in the case, but, as I said, this has not always worked. And we can also see perfectly that during this crisis, the Hungarian state register has a surplus tax revenue of some HUF 1500 billion. This additional income is largely made up of VAT, but rather of the high inflation prices that families are forced to pay. The tax content of high prices is higher; this inflationary extraprofit is put in the pocket by the government, spending it on other purposes: pyramid constructions, cicoma investments. Here is a huge philosophical difference between us: you spend these money, we spend this surplus tax revenue one way, we channel it back to the families concerned, and within the framework of a national food support programme, i.e. a NAP, in a just way, we would support the needy families with healthy, typically, and, where possible, domestic food. By healthy home, I mean vegetables, fruit, cereals, bakery, fish, meat and even dairy products, so we're thinking about a very wide range, but it's certainly worth comparing to something. The Hungarian poverty threshold is so terribly low that it is perhaps worth examining the poverty threshold measured by European measurements, and unfortunately we find that more than half of Hungarian citizens live their daily lives below the poverty threshold in the European sense. I would therefore not draw the ceiling for the national food support programme at the poverty threshold of the HCSO. A typical couple of teachers in a life-style where two children are raised may be above the measurement level of the KSH, but I'm sure it would be very helpful if they could get a measurable sum of up to tens of thousands of HUF per month. I would add that there is a source of this in the budget. That extra profit, that extra tax income that the government didn't expect, because it couldn't anticipate the effects of the crisis, it's in the register this year. So our goal is to bring this amount, this surplus of 1,500 billion back to the families concerned in one piece and channel it back to different titles. The national food support programme is a flagship of this, but of course we will have further ideas. The question is that this philosophical difference between the government and us can be resolved, so you want to spend this extra, unexpected and tax revenue from families due to inflation, crises, or partners in the idea of doing so. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] channel it back to affected and deprived families, both in favour of the middle class and those who lack it. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2023-03-27-14	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Eszter Vitalyos wishes to respond. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2023-03-27-15	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, It has brought something extremely important to the walls of this House, and I think that it will not pass a day when the government does not deal with it, and on which we have taken a number of measures in recent months. But let's get something straight from the beginning. I have a slightly different view of the philosophical differences or differences between our parties. We think that if there's work, then there's everything. We're also trying to back up our family support system, and we're trying to help. And let's get one more thing straight. The increase in the price of food not only affects Hungarian people, unfortunately, but it can be observed throughout Europe that the effects of the historical scale drought and the Russian-Ukrainian war on the one hand, but even more so, the failed sanctions policy that comes in response to it can be blamed for. Otherwise, there hasn't been a representative who would have considered the maintenance of the reduction of the rent a pointless catoma, because it's just that there's a lot of government revenue... [[Dr. Brenner Koloman's intervention:]] If you'll allow me, Congressman, I'd like to answer. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes again.]] We'll see what the Speaker will allow you to do. [[Noise, interruptions in Jobbik's benches.]] The second question is that, while before 2010, the crisis management of Balliberal Governments consisted, among other things, of the removal or reduction of [[The president's ringing the bell.]] a number of family support and residential restrictions have been introduced, and until then we have set ourselves the goal of maintaining and, as far as possible, expanding the scope of benefits for families in this current economic crisis. While your left-wing ally raised taxes, we paid off the paid personal income tax of families raising children, maintained the reduction of the overhead to the average consumption, introduced the interest rate stop; in the autumn of 2021 we introduced a price stop for certain basic foods, which were extended in November 2022 and extended. We reduced VAT on a number of basic foods to 5%, such as pig meat, poultry meat, milk, eggs and fish. We also extended the residential interest stop protecting 350,000 families and extended it and kept it until interest rates fell. So to say that nothing is happening to protect families, I think it is irresponsible in this situation. The government has taken more than twenty measures over the past period that we are proud of, and we believe that they all contribute to keeping family members at work and living in peace. We use more resources than ever before, 100 billion forints in 2023, which is 70 billion forints more than in 2010. Hundreds of thousands of children receive fresh milk and fruit through various school milk and school fruit schemes. From January this year, the minimum wage rose to HUF 232 thousand, the guaranteed minimum wage to HUF 296 thousand, thus achieving that the current minimum wage was higher than the average wage during the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments. As compared to 2015, the number of people facing unexpected expenditure has decreased by 50 percent, i.e. by more than 1.5 million. [[13.50]] According to Eurostat, this is one of the largest reductions in the Union. But I can't ignore your perverse political attitude, because your social sensitivity can only be seen at the level of words. I must remind you that you did not vote for the introduction of family taxation, all four times you said no to increasing the family tax reduction, you did not support the four-year moms' exemption, you did not support the possibility of having children again for three years, and you abstained from the adoption of the family benefit. The government will spend more than HUF 3300 billion, or 4.3 percent of GDP on family support this year, because we believe that in times of crisis there is nothing more important than the ability of Hungarian families to live safely. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-03-27-16	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Bertalan Tóth, Head of Group, MSZP Group, asked for a pre-meeting address on the current issues. You have the floor.
u2023-03-27-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Before I get to the point, on behalf of the Hungarian Socialist Party, I welcome the fact that after eight months we can finally vote on Finland's accession to NATO. Representatives of the MSZP will support this proposal. As far as Sweden's accession is concerned, we find it quite amazing, vile and cynical, what the government and Fidesz are doing. I understand that the Hungarian Ministry of Foreign Affairs may have the best team in the world, but diplomacy is not a football game. It is quite unacceptable, and the roadside horse-dog style used by the Orbán government seems to be ineffective. This results in increasing isolation in our federal systems for the Fidesz government, a disgrace for the Hungarian people and a breakdown for the economy. If I understood Balázs Orbán's recent words correctly, the support of the Prime Minister and the government in the Fidesz fraction has now become questionable in the case of Sweden, which is why they did not dare to vote today on the proposal for accession to Sweden. I would like to remind Mr political director from here too, because we do not now have the full support of the opposition factions for Sweden's accession to NATO, so if there are 46 pro-government representatives out of 135 who support the further reinforcement of the military alliance, then I think that with our support this issue can be carried forward without any problems at the Parliament and we can finally move forward in other matters. However, if there are no 46 Fidesz Members, it could mean a loss of confidence in the government. It's time to clear the air. Ladies and gentlemen, In other areas, the Orbán government should not look at what they say, but at what they do, such is the fight against inflation. They say they're putting out the fires of inflation, but they're actually just watering it with oil, and they're wondering if there's ever more expensive. Due to the uncertainty of the economic environment due to special taxes, Europe's record VAT, weak forints and suspension of EU funds, we have a rate of increase above 25 per cent, while the EU average is already one-digit. From 1 May, Fidesz would give another boost to the increase when it comes to the official price of eight basic foods. Ladies and gentlemen, But none of this is supposed to happen. It could be avoided that Fidesz government errors lead to undue suffering for people with below-average income or pensions. For example, the case of Magyar Posta, from which 1200 people are fired, because due to energy prices, high electricity bills, the Posta cannot pay them. I looked at these electricity prices from the state MVM, or the state MVM set the price for the Posta, which is also a state company, i.e. MVM, which produces electricity at two of its largest power plants, Paks Nuclear Power Plant, for 12 HUF, and Mátra Power Plant for 24 HUF per kilowatt hour. Compared to this, Posta pays several times, almost 200 forints for electricity, and Magyar Posta managed to sign its management with millions of monthly payments for the whole year. I checked the market, companies, whether local governments or local government companies, which voted for quarterly contracts, now buy electricity for 90 HUF, while Posta buys electricity for 200 HUF a year. You could have saved up to 600 out of 1,200 people by keeping their jobs. There could be a price reduction in trade or in other areas of the economy, but because of the state's MVM energy contracts, operators cannot do this, MVM is here looking for the source of income for the losses suffered from the defective Russian gas contract. Ladies and gentlemen, If it is really important for the Fidesz government to maintain people's livelihoods and to reduce inflation, we need to maintain price caps, we need to drive special taxes, we need to reduce the VAT rates for basic foods to zero, we need to give support to small shops and small farmers. This could bring lower food prices, which could curb inflation, for our common future, for Hungary. [[Applause in the lines of MSZP and Dialogue.]]
u2023-03-27-18	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Tamás Menczer wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2023-03-27-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, First of all, before we get to the Swedes and Finns, two tiny reflections of what you have said. On the one hand, there's no running team in the State Department, and unfortunately, we're all old. [[Defiance from the Fidesz ranks.]] The other is that the confidence in foreign policy guidance is enviable from the leader of a party that reaches up to 2 percent in Hungary on a stronger Monday. So I'm very envious of this type of confidence, Your Honour. Turning to the substance of the matter, the integration and accession of the Swedes and the Finns to NATO, I would like to remind you that I do not wish to go to such a kindergarten pace, but we did not start the story. When it all started, why didn't you get tired of Swedish or Finnish colleagues and ask them if you were so concerned about this matter, why did they keep saying false accusations, lies and slanders about Hungary with encyclopaedic attention? So if [[Interventions from the ranks of DK and MSZP: About the government, not about Hungary!]] I'm sorry... [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I understand that you're disturbed by the facts, that's how it usually is, but still, the facts are stubborn. [[László Varju: This is the government's position!]] So they kept lying about Hungary, which is why the government and the pro-government part of the Hungarian Parliament said that, by the way, the government made a supportive, integration-supporting proposal, but the pro-government factions thought it was worth consulting our Finnish and Swedish friends to clarify how they would cooperate with us on another federal system, the largest military alliance in the world, if they were to treat a partner disrespectfully within a federal system, within the European Union. After that, a Hungarian delegation travelled to Sweden and Finland and held consultations there. These consultations have, of course, been evaluated and, in relation to the Finns, we can conclude that, on the one hand, because of historical friendship, alliance and, on the other hand, as a result of consultations, we can see that in the future we can continue our communication and bilateral relations on the ground of mutual respect. The result of this is also today's vote and our support for the accession of the Finns. Turning to Sweden, I understand, Mr Group Leader, why you are so much in favour of the Swedes, because the current Swedish Prime Minister said, for example, that it is a task for the European Union to break Hungary's development curve, to act hard against the Hungarian government and to support the opposition more and more strongly. Well, I understand why you are in the position that, as usual, you are looking for political support from abroad. And one more thing about the Swedes: they told a number of lies about Hungary. [[14.00]] The former Social Democratic Minister for Social Affairs said:. Alert, what is happening in Hungary. Now Orbán wants more real Hungarian children to be born. Politics reeks of the '30s. The Hungarian government's family policy, described in detail here earlier, is paralleled by the darkest periods, with all kinds of Nazi, fascist accusations, the fact that, yes, we support the Hungarian families, yes, otherwise we say no to migration, and yes, we do everything we can to ensure that the desired children, the families, are born. After these sentences, and I could put that on a long list, I think that's a legitimate expectation. [[Kálmán Olga: Family allowance!]] To clarify how we can cooperate on the basis of mutual respect in the future. We're open, I'd like to point out that the ball is not on our side. As Swedish politicians reassure my fellow Members and I that we can work together on the basis of mutual respect, we are open to support. In conclusion, what Mr. Group leader has said in general as a criticism of our foreign policy, you know, Mr. Head of the Group, that is all right; as long as you criticize, we know that we are doing our job well. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] because it is only the representation of Hungarian interest, and that is all that affects us, and you have never been able to place it in your coordinate system. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-27-20	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Ferenc Gelencsér, Head of the Group, Momentum Group, asked for a pre-meeting address with the title of our current affairs. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2023-03-27-21	Mr. Speaker, Dear House, This weekend I had the pleasure of visiting Belgium, and if you visit Brussels, the Google map will bring up a spectacle not far from the main square, called Szájer-eresz. Our news in the world is extremely unpleasant, but there are far more unpleasant cases about Hungary. For example, the fact that it has now become clear to the allies of our country is a sign for the states of the European Union and NATO that the Hungarian government is completely unreliable. Just as economic partners and investors have priced the Hungarian government, which has brought together record inflation in Europe, so our military allies have acknowledged that the Hungarian government is abandoning its allies as well as its citizens. After a long labor, we are finally voting today on Finland's accession to NATO, and we are doing this as the last of the NATO members in the EU; everyone else did this between July and October last year. Why did this drag on so far in Hungary? It's because there's supposed to be a debate within the pro-state faction. If it weren't tragic, I'd say he's a comedian, because the whole country knows that in Hungary one man decides everything. If there were minimal maintenance, patriotism, or even responsibility in pro-state representatives, then this is not the first time in the last 13 years, but when private pension funds are stolen, broken down by the MTA or because of civil law. But, no, in this country there is no debate within the pro-state faction because you think these things are okay. There is a sharp disagreement when our Finnish brothers, who are members of the European Union, want to be part of the NATO of which our country is a member. The Hungarian government has been making this impossible for months. He does this when there is war in Europe, because the terrorist Russia has invaded a sovereign state. He does this to a nation that has a limit of 1340 kilometers in common with the terrorist Russian state, and therefore rightly wishes to be a member of the military alliance. He does this to the nation that, like the Hungarian, has experienced what it is like to attack the Russian and pay with his blood for freedom; I don't know, you know, but our word, blood, sounds almost the same in Finnish. Let us tell the truth, who is in the best interest of having so long the accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO: Vladimir Putin. Hungary's interests must not be protected primarily against Finland and Sweden; the interests of the Hungarian nation must be protected most against the terrorist Russia, the country that attacked Europe. This conflict has been going on for nine years, a month and a week, to be exact. Do you know the last time this long war struck the continent? Between 1701-1714, during the Spanish War of Succession. Let us say the truth about which you are afraid to remain silent about the veto of Swedish NATO accession: the government is now crossing the border with Sweden without which there would be no Hungarian air force. The government has built the pro-EU, Atlantist foreign policy with the word that it is necessary to open up to every direction of the wind rose; as the more of us are in one community, the stronger we are. All right, let's accept that this is true; but then it's also true that NATO is stronger, the more of us are in it. And peace requires strength. Isn't that what the Prime Minister used to say: greater NATO, stronger Europe, more secure peace? According to the pro-state faction, this is not so, according to the pro-state faction, the Prime Minister is wrong. Now it is either that there has been an unprecedented conflict between your faction members and the Prime Minister, or that here the entire Hungarian nation is looking at this puppet show as an idiot. At the same time, you are endangering the security of our country, because Hungary is in danger, not because of the EU or NATO, but because the Hungarian Prime Minister is on Vladimir Putin's side and not only about the accession of Sweden and Finland to NATO. The Prime Minister of Hungary has also put Hungarians in jeopardy by financing Vladimir Putin's military machine with a record amount of their money, their tax forints, through expensive Russian gas contracts. Because of you, the Hungarian people outside their will are supporting the aggressor with a lot of money in this war. While everyone is breaking down the Russian gas dependency so that the aggressor can spend as little gas as possible on deadly weapons, ammunition on the Russian-Ukrainian front, the Hungarian government enters into a gas contract with Russia when the gas price is the highest. Bravo! I ask you to reconsider, however, that this country does not need a pro-European, Atlantist turn, because the truth is that this is in Hungary's interest: strong pro-European policy, pro-European and Hungarian-friendly Ukraine between us and Russia, NATO expanding with our Swedes and our Finnish brothers, and, of course, the European Union transferring EU money. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Momentum.]]
u2023-03-27-22	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Before continuing our work, allow me, on behalf of the Parliament, to welcome Mr Vladimir Orlić, the President and escort of the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia, who are present in Budapest at the invitation of Speaker László Kövér. For your discussions, we wish you good luck and a pleasant stay for your stay. Welcome. [[Vladimir Orlić stands up. Applause.]] Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, wishes to respond to the group leaders' speech. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2023-03-27-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. There is a difference in attitude between us, honourable Member. I saw in the previous speech and in your speech that you imagine that Hungarian foreign policy should be adapted to the expectations of others and to the opinions of others. We have a completely different opinion. We are of the opinion that in all cases the interests of the country should be looked at, even if others do not like it, and even if this road is paved with much more debate. Contrary to what you have said, the government's view of Russian military intervention is quite clear: it condemns it, as the majority of Parliament is expected to condemn it. If you have looked at it, and hopefully you have looked at the draft parliamentary resolution, this is clearly stated in it; so I ask you not to make false statements about it. There has just been an explanation that Sweden guarantees Hungarian air protection; perhaps that is what he said. You joined a party alliance, the one on the left when you were on the government, you reduced the number of training machines to a third, half your fighter jets, you gave away 77 tanks, and you completely destroyed the artillery. Do you know how many reserve soldiers there were in this country? Eleven of them. [[Dr. István Simicskó: 17.]] 17. If you cared a little bit about the security of the country, you wouldn't have joined the left to which you joined. On one thing, we may agree that the issue of peace and war is more important than anything else for countries and for Europe. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that 35 countries have sent lethal means to the battlefield so far, 18 countries have decided to transport tanks, 10 countries' leaders are considering how to send fighters, 3 countries have already made this decision. These two events also show that we have come closer and not further away from the threat of World War II. I am bringing this here because this is the essential issue; because the left has consistently taken a pro-war position in recent months and I cannot say one left-wing party that would be an exception in this matter. [[14.10]] If it were up to you, we'd be up to our necks in this conflict, and there's no way there's blood on it. Before... [[Noise from the opposition benches.]] Before they try to deny it. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] Consider some examples. Your Prime Minister candidate, not a leader of opinion, not a journalist, but a candidate of the Prime Minister, wanted to send soldiers. The President of DK criticized the government [[László Varju: We are in the war because of Orbán!]] because we are not sending weapons, and their MEPs have joined in. According to the former Socialist Defense Minister, we should send weapons because we have weapons. Gergely Christmas party, right, Congressman Torda? A few weeks ago, he confirmed that we should send weapons. [[Bence of Turdai: Yes, yes!]] The same is true of Benedek Jávor, who, as I understand it, will be their European list leader. And what do you say the Momentum says? Momentum would also send weapons, so said András Fekete-Győr and Anna Donáth. And Congressman Márton Tompos adds that there should be no truce, that's what the Moment says, because listen! pro-peace is the policy of the hands up. Congressman Blunt and honourable Members of Congress, I don't know when you've been at war for the last time. [[Ferenc Gelencsér: Two months ago!]] I don't think they'd jump into it that easily. Next time you're going across the border, next time you're going across the border, and say you're not campaigning for Romanian or Slovak parties, I suggest you take a look at what's going on in Beregszász! Hungarian mothers weep for their fallen children on the front, Hungarian children must [[Ferenc Gelencsér: We were there! The president's ringing again.]] In kindergartens' kindergartens' kindergartens. In the streets, you can almost only see women because men are either on the front lines or they have left the country. [[Ferenc Gelencsér: Sending photos!]] So, ladies and gentlemen of the left, this war is already affecting Hungary, and this war is already much closer to us than we ever thought. We can't let him get any closer. That is why it is important that Parliament sets out its pro-peace position in a resolution. You should know that if you do not support this, you will face the majority will of the Hungarians, and this will have to bear all the consequences. Thank you for listening. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-03-27-24	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Ms Kálmán Olga, DK Group, applied for a speech entitled News Affairs. You have the floor.
u2023-03-27-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, By 2023 we got to the point that, after the unchaining of free Hungary and the demise of Hungarian democracy, we must fear for our country's accession to the EU and NATO, in particular, from you. For the past 13 years, you have systematically dismantled our country's western and European federal relations. They broke all European values with even feet; and they betrayed Hungarian and European interests wherever they could for a few rubles. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: This was 2006!]] You sat at the table in Europe as long as you could hope for money, held hands, but denied all European values. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: 2006! Peter Cseresnyés intervenes.]] Now that there is no EU money, because criminals are not being sent, the Orbán system has shown its protein. A few weeks ago, Viktor Orbán spoke about the fact that Hungary would be better off not being a member of the Union. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's not true!]] And there are only financial reasons why we're still here. You want free money, but you do not want European Hungary, democracy, free press, free European Hungarian citizens. This is the conflict that is causing historical damage to our country today. From the most promising EU accession, by 2023 we became Europe's motorist, an inflation Europe recordr, a conflicting, no allies, a lonely, anti-EU government, which in Europe and NATO is considered to be Vladimir Putin's henchman. Right now, you're not invited to the summit of democracy by the White House. [[There's a lot of noise from the pro-government benches. Crying out, wow! Wow! Eszter Vítalos: How we wanted to go!]] Yet, the leadership of 121 countries was considered worthy of being there. With Viktor Orbán in the free world, they will sit at a table only if they want to listen to the Russian position in Hungarian, or if it is necessary to sit at a table with him because of the European Council meeting. [[Eszter Vitalos: Shame on you!]] But the Prime Minister of Hungary, far from Europe, is welcome to be seen at the maximum in Turkmenistan. However, the real conflict is not between Hungary and the EU or NATO, but between you and the Hungarian people. The Hungarian people have made a clear decision on two occasions on the place of our country in the world. We did not become members of the EU and NATO, we did not say yes to the EU and NATO in a national campaign led by propaganda issues, but in two separate referendums. Since then, membership has been unbroken, at least four fifths supported to this day. So when you take a stand against European values, the decision of the Hungarian people will be ignored and the alliances that Hungarian people have made with Europe will be destroyed. When you are pursuing an anti-European policy, you are putting at risk the thousand-year-old dream that is the same age as Hungarians. They are also putting our lives on the line so that we can finally live our lives in European prosperity here in Hungary. Well, what can the opposition's leading power do in this situation, how can it fight for national interests? [[Intruder from the pro-government side: Dollars!]] It can show that there is a governor-capable alternative, that there is another choice and that we can still be a European Hungary. You can also show the world that you must not give up on the Hungarian people, because European Hungarians live in this country. When the Hungarian Shadow Prime Minister met Keir Starmer, the British Shadow Prime Minister, last week in London [[Rushing up, coming up from the pro-government benches. Intercoms: Oh, oh! Bence Rétvári: Meeting of worlds!]] The whole western world has picked up its head [[Bence Rétvári: Harder, Olga! There's a lot of noise. There's a leak in the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] There's someone else here. [[Bence Rétvári: Harder!]] Besides Viktor Orbán. I know you don't like this. [[Intercoms from the pro-government side: I like it! Bence Rétvári: Continue.]] But it was also the case that Hungary is not equal to the Orbán system, that there is a leftist force here with a fair European commitment, which will be able to wash away the shame, the disgrace that the Orbán government has done to Hungary over the past 13 years. You've seen a politician named Klára Dobrev. [[Defiance, a lot of noise on the pro-government side. Bence Rétvári: Light!]] who is ready to lead our country back to its historic goal of European debt. They saw that Klára Dobrev would be one of the prime ministers with whom we could settle our federal relations, who could be seen as a partner in Europe, and who would be able to open those doors. [[Bence Rétvári: Rubber bullet democracy!]] that you've been hit long ago. Everyone can be proud of this, they still expect us as friends and allies, only instead of Viktor Orbán, led by Klára Dobrev. That is why the shadow government is our only hope for belonging to Europe [[Eszter Debate: Let's not joke.]] and live in European well-being here in Hungary. [[Cries from the pro-government benches: Bravo! Bravo! Bence Rétvári: Five more minutes! Applause from the opposition benches.]] Thank you.
u2023-03-27-26	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond.
u2023-03-27-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I'd like to respond to the serious parts. Firstly, with regard to EU membership. We have often said, for the thousandth time, that EU membership is a national interest, but it is not the kind of European Union we dreamed of. [[Kálmán Olga: What is it?]] We did not dream of a European Union where the countries of Eastern Europe, including Hungary, were considered second-class members. [[Kálmán Olga: No! Only the Orbán government!]] So Hungary and our interests are not taken into account, for example, that we are extremely vulnerable to energy supplies, because we are not self-sufficient. Now, as to who's subordinate, let me say, look at energy policy, who was in Putin's best interests, let me give you some examples. We didn't throw the MOL. This isn't the government that threw the MOL. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] It was you who threw the MOL. [[László Varju: You are the whole country! Eszter Vitalos: Yes, yes, yes!]] You have not built any gas pipeline in order to get gas to Hungary from anywhere else; this government has built more than one. [[László Varju: That is not true! Eszter Vitalos: That's true! Nacsa Lárinc intervenes. Continued noise in opposition benches.]] More than one. It was not you, but this government that allowed liquid gas to arrive in Hungary. [[Zsolt Gréczy: The world's most expensive!]] It wasn't this government, it wasn't this government, it was the left-wing government, the left-wing government that you joined, the one that sold it, and the gas stores that this government recovered. Do you know what you've done? They sued the government for doing this. As far as EU funds are concerned, if you consider EU funds to be important, I ask you to do one thing: to vote on what is necessary for this agreement when we vote in this House. [[Kálmán Olga: Don't steal!]] [[Kálmán Olga: Don't steal!]] And if he said that this had anything to do with the rule of law (Kálmán Olga: Don't steal!) Let me ask you this: do you really believe that the quality of Hungarian democracy and the rule of law depends on us amending the legislation on declarations of assets for the fifth time? [[Kálmán Olga: No need to steal EU money!]] Is that what you really think? But if you don't think so, why is it that such requests come from Brussels? [[Kálmán Olga: You don't have to steal the money!]] We both know that it's not really about democracy, it's about the rule of law, it's about trying to break us down on matters of racial seriousness, peace, arms transfers. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: The Russians have been broken for a long time!]] on the issue of sanctions. [[14.20]] And not us, but one of the Commissioners of the European Commission, is that we must be broken because we are not taking the right position. [[Kálmán Olga: We didn't say.]] peace and war. As far as the rule of law is concerned: you also spoke on 15 March about tyranny in Hungary, I believe you are using that word. [[László Varju: Yes, it is!]] At the national festival, the man who sent the police to peaceful memorialists in 2006 could have spoken of tyranny. [[Crying out of opposition lines, including Dr. Ágnes Vadai, taking his place: If they were peaceful...]] And it didn't fall into the sky! [[Continued interrogations from the opposition and the pro-government ranks. It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government ranks.]] Hello, Congresswoman Vadai, I see you've arrived at work. [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks. Dr. Agnes Vadai: Yes, I was here.]] I would also like to make it clear to you that for the past 70 years only then and then [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Only then and then.]] It was not possible to remember our revolutions peacefully; human rights were trampled on the inhabitants of the tiny villa. This was the case after 1956, and it was in 2006. [[Intercoms from the pro-government line: Shame!]] As for the shadow government, I understand that this is often mentioned, I think that it is a serious problem for the opposition and for the country that Ferenc Gyurcsány is trying to get his hands on everything. I'm not talking about the most embarrassing scene in the last few weeks. [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks. Intercoms from opposition lines, including: Are you jealous? Dr. Agnes Vadai: How witty! He's a master of big cuts.]] I think that this is also the problem of the left. It's a fitting term for shadow government, because everyone on the left must follow DK's leader as a shadow. [[Defiance and interrogations from opposition ranks, including Dr. Ágnes Vadai: But witty! He's a master of big cuts. The president's ringing the bell.]] even if it means staying in the shadows permanently. You yourself are very proud to announce that the shadow government in the Gyurcsány sense has agreed with His Majesty's shadow government, the British Shadow Kort. We try to take this seriously, all the more so, because in Britain, the shadow cabinet has a much bigger tradition. Let's see what the British shadow government represents, say, three. They'd send weapons to war, pursue active gender policies, and support migration. This means that the Hungarian shadow government would join this, in fact it has already done so politically. If we complement this with their toxic tax lifting and austerity mania, then it is definitely not the package that this country needs, so I think that this policy should just stay in the shadows. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-27-28	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Prime Minister István Simicskó, KDNP Group asked for a pre-meeting address with the title of immediate ceasefire and peace talks. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Long live peace! Peace!]] Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor. We'll just wait until Congresswoman Vada finishes. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: I serve my country.]] Thank you very much. I'm honored. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2023-03-27-29	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Let me begin by saying that there was a philosopher in ancient China who left us much wisdom, called mankind, Lao-Te, who, on the back of a buffalo, at least on the back of a buffalo in order to slowly see the essence, the value rather than the rush and the rush. He himself left behind, among other things, that tranquillity is the control of movement. So calm is the guide of movement, especially when there is a tension of passion, when the sky of Europe is filled with war shells, and when hatred is growing. I think it's important that we stand up for peace with sufficient composure. This is what the Hungarian government does, in addition to the Vatican, the Hungarian government is the one who advocates peace and dialogue in Europe, and even Israel and China have come up with and came up with a peace plan. I think we need to keep an eye on these and see this. On the other hand, we can see that some people in Brussels and elsewhere are in a war mood, left-wing politicians and liberals, carrying more ammunition, more tanks, more fighter planes and more weapons to Ukraine, and they are planning to do this in the long term. In fact, it has now been reported that in the United Kingdom depleted uranium ammunition will be transported to Ukraine to help the Ukrainian army. This shows that the responsibility when calm and wisdom should appear and rule in the minds of decision-making politicians, allowing the incitement to war, and even inciting themselves in this situation, sends even more serious weapons, even more means to kill human lives, which does not bring peace forward in any way. Ladies and gentlemen, Many people are talking about and writing about the Third World War, including Kissinger himself, who is certainly a huge name in security policy. He is concerned by the news he sees about the war, and points out that there were military conflicts before the first and the second world wars just before the two world wars, including the Balkan wars of 1912 and 13, including the war of Abyssinia in 1936 and even the Spanish Civil War, which took place between 36 and 39 just before the outbreak of World War II. But it could also indicate that there was an armed conflict and war between China and Japan in 1937. So don't make the current Ukrainian-Russian conflict the forerunner of war a wider war, if any, a third world war! We'd like to avoid that far away. I think that's what every good-hearted and sober-minded person wants. That is why we need sufficient rest, sufficient wisdom to see where these processes may go if we do nothing. And then we could calmly ask between the walls of this House that if there is a peace plan, because there is also a peace plan in China, a peace plan in the Vatican during the Russian-Ukrainian war, where is the United States peace plan, where is Brussels' peace plan. We do not see this, we see a war scenario rather than a peace plan; rather than bringing peace forward, we would urge dialogue between the parties, and everyone would do everything in their power to ensure that this happens as soon as possible, so that people, Ukrainians and Russians and others do not die senselessly in this terrible sister war. Ladies and gentlemen, I think the position of the Hungarian government is correct, and I really think that when the leading politicians in the United States declare that they do not want a ceasefire on the Russian-Ukrainian front, we can ask why they would not want to, and why they do not want to. Why wouldn't they want to, what is the reason why they're starting a war instead? Peace was in all civilizations, it was worth it to all human communities, peace gives us the opportunity to prosper for all decent people. So all steps that will bring peace forward, obviously, would start with a truce, and should continue to be well supported in the future. In addition, when there are not too many peace plans on the table, it is really worth considering and discussing all such documents. I think we're gonna have to do this in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, There are a number of other issues which, obviously, look at the way in which those who have joined the sanctions policy have joined, I must say that there are about 40 countries who support sanctions policy against Russia, let us say, 150 countries see that this does not make any sense. Not so long ago we were outside with János Latorcai, Mihal Balla, at the General Assembly of the Interparlamentary Union [[Dr. Agnes Vadai's intervention:]] , Ágnes Vadai was also out there, yes, although he is pro-war, but we did not support the war, but, unfortunately, I have to say that this is the biggest problem for Europe right now, the sanctions policy, the failed sanctions policy, guaranteeing energy security is essential, but it can only be created in the conditions of peace. So we support the government's further stand for peace. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-27-30	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader, for your suggestions. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Tamás Menczer wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2023-03-27-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, This sitting also clearly shows the situation today, the government and the ruling parties want peace, an immediate ceasefire and peace, and the left is pro-war. Here, only the characters have changed in the last few hours: in the first half, the Varju László-Tordai Bence choir chorus chanted alongside the arms transports and the war; now the ladies' choir has come to the fore: Olga Kálmán, Ágnes Vadai, but the speech and content are completely unchanged. [[Intercoms from DK's ranks.]] Moreover, I understand that Congresswoman Vadai is doing this quite cheerfully and in a good mood, which is strange. We may have had lunch with the party president, but let's ignore that. [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]] Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, The situation is extremely serious, because, as you have referred to, there are arms shipments, arms resettlements on the agenda, and even events that project nuclear escalation. In addition, we can now hear statements about which countries would send soldiers into this conflict, apart from the Russians and Ukrainians, as appropriate. [[14.30]] We have seen a declaration of foreign minister from a large country that we are fighting with the Russians, said the German Foreign Minister, we can remember, so he referred to his own country as a war party. So the situation is extremely serious, all developments point towards serious escalation. We must clearly underline that we have never been as close to the Third World War as we are, unfortunately, at present. In addition, it must be said, Mr Group Leader, in this House, that peace has been labeled, which I think is an extremely dangerous development. They say that if they were to make peace at the moment, it would not be fair, it would not be fair, it would not be fair, this peace is said by the entire left without exception, from Momentum through the Gyurcsány Party to Jobbik, although the formula is quite simple: peace is good and war is bad, and that is the most important truth. Anyone who does not want instant peace and an immediate ceasefire, who says that peace is unfair, really does not want peace, but wants to continue the war, so he is pro-war; unfortunately, this is true of the entire Hungarian left. Let's get you something else. Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, Here today we have heard a lot about Sweden, Finland, America, Russia, and the entire left has been trying to relate Hungarian foreign policy to one of them, always to someone; the starting point is what others say, what others say, what is in the interests of others. On the other hand, Hungarian foreign policy, the government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are solely in the interest of Hungary. The reason why the Hungarian left cannot process this is that I had the opportunity to refer to it during today's debate, because it cannot place it in its coordinate system, because it has never done it, i.e. to represent the Hungarian interest. Let me also bring it here, since Swedish and Finnish colleagues have mentioned a lot today that they are asking about them, asking about them, about the integration process in Finland and Sweden, but, for example, about the situation and fate of Hungarians in Transcarpathia; it seems that the Hungarian interest is not important to them in this respect either. The Hungarian Government stands up for Transcarpathian Hungarians, we demand that their lost rights be restored, and that their existing rights and previous rights be respected in Ukraine. This is the fundamental condition for the Hungarian Government's position on Ukraine's integration into the European Union and NATO and the Euroatlantic. [[Noise, move.]] Let me get you a question or two. The question of the supply of ammunition and weapons: however the Hungarian left pushes it, however it demands it [[The president's ringing the bell.]] The government will continue not to send ammunition, weapons or soldiers into the war, nor will we support such measures, nor will we participate in them. About energy as a last thought. Here, in recent speeches, we have heard about energy. My favourite was the speech by the current president of the Momentum, who, I don't know, said something about us doing nothing to diversify, Russian gas and the contract is wrong. Without Russian gas, the Hungarian economy would collapse, families would not be able to heat, they would not be able to live their daily lives. And when it comes to diversification, we've done everything we can from anywhere. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] We can buy gas from any direction, if there is a source and there is a route outside Hungary, this fact is forgotten by left-wing colleagues. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-27-32	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Erik Bánki, the Fidesz Group, has applied for a pre-meeting address. You have the floor.
u2023-03-27-33	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It seems that during the campaign that preceded the parliamentary elections last year, billions of dollars came from the United States to the Hungarian left-wing parties. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Mr. President! The speaker is lying! What do I do with it?]] , which can be considered as prohibited party financing. The Secret Service has been investigating for some time, and the State Audit Office has recently involved the National Tax and Customs Office in the investigation. Thus, the political scandal is showing increasing and increasing signs. The State Court of Auditors shall comply with its legal obligation when examining the campaign budgets of the parties to Parliament. The 2013 Act also states that the Court of Auditors has one year to carry out the investigation; this, according to László Windisch, the President of the State Audit Office, has indicated, is certainly no longer happening. As the Court progressed, it was faced with suspicion of financial abuses and illicit subsidies, monitoring the various accounts and spending of left-wing parties. Due to the complexity of the case, the investigation may take months. After the operation of the SAO is supervised by the Parliament's Economic Committee, I asked Mr President to come to the Committee's meeting today and to inform us of the circumstances, the details that have already been explained and the latest developments in the investigation. This is extremely important, because we are undoubtedly facing the biggest political scandal in the last thirty years. Every citizen has the right to know in what way and who used these illicit sources in Hungarian: how they tried to influence the results of the elections in Hungary from abroad. The President of the SAO has come to today's meeting of the Economic Committee and has personally informed us of the picture of the results of the previous investigations. What can I say? Mr. President's briefing wasn't very cheerful. President László Windisch said that during the implementation of the audit special circumstances have emerged that go beyond the experience of previous campaign audits. At the legislative elections in 2022, it appeared as an essential circumstance that six parties, DK, Jobbik, Momentum, MSZP, LMP and Dialogue, had put together a joint list at the election with the participation of a non-party association, the President of the Hungarian Movement, who was the Prime Minister's candidate for opposition cooperation. [[Noise.]] In November 2021, the leaders of the opposition cooperation agreed to conduct a joint campaign, which will be chaired by the campaign council, with all organisations, the parties concerned and the Movement of All Hungary represented. The united left campaign was run by the joint campaign team. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] , jointly made decisions, used common logos, rented common platforms, held joint events. It became clear to the State Audit Office that Péter Márki-Zay marked the election results of the six left-wing parties, namely DK, Jobbik, Momentum, MSZP, LMP and Dialogue. The foreign money, which arrived on paper to the Everybody's Hungary Movement, actually financed the campaign of left-wing opposition parties. The State Audit Office of Hungary also wrote to me that from these dollars HUF 1.8 billion was transferred to Datadat GmbH in the interest of Bajnai Gordon, which was used to finance the campaign of left-wing parties, but it also received the money from Oraculum 2020 Kft., the company operating the left-wing fake news pages. According to the findings of the SAO's investigations to date, there is a thorough suspicion of illicit party financing and of the fact that the campaign clearances sent by the six opposition parties were not complete. The State Audit Office therefore requested information from the Hungary of All Movement, and then, on the basis of the documents received, turned to 23 additional companies, which participated in the implementation of the activities of the Hungarian Movement during the campaign period. In addition, the State Audit Office requested information from Datada GmbH and Oraculum 2020 Kft., according to the information provided by the National Information Centre. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear fellow Members, As long as these investigations are not completed, of course, we can talk about this in a conditional way, but I would say that there is a very strong suspicion that we are actually dealing with illegal party financing, and if that is the case, then the left-wing parties have broken the law, and there must be consequences. We would therefore like to ask the head of the State Audit Office, all of its employees, who are involved in the investigation, to carry out the investigation independently, but firmly, so that it becomes clear to all Hungarians how, under what circumstances, these funds were spent. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-27-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Répássy Róbert wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2023-03-27-35	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Mr President of the Commission, I would like to state that, under the Party Act, parties cannot accept support from legal persons or foreign organisations. According to the practice of the State Audit Office so far, illicit aid may not only be a donation in cash, but the party law also prohibits the acceptance of non-financial contributions from unauthorised sources. [[14.40]] This is important because, on the one hand, there has been a long, decades of consensus so far that parties not only did not accept support from legal persons, but, of course, they could not use foreign subsidies during the campaign, because foreign intervention in the campaign may arise if it is true that a party or an election organisation has accepted campaign support from abroad. So this would be a very serious behaviour, which would disregard the electoral traditions of the last 30 years, if the State Audit Office and the organisations entitled to do so were to find out. So what really happened here in this House is unprecedented, and I think that we have been able to throw all kinds of foreign influence at each other, but there has not been much evidence of such dollars. I think this is clear evidence that some parties, opposition parties, have received foreign support in the last election campaign. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] If these are proven, this party law and electoral laws have serious consequences. On the one hand, it is clear that the parties who have received must pay back state aid, campaign support and, in fact, pay back once more as punishment. And this is not changed by the fact that, for example, during the election campaign, the organization on which the money came into its account did not start, but gave, in other words, only the leader of the Alliance, the candidate for Prime Minister. It doesn't change anything, because according to the Court of Auditors' practice, not only direct but also indirect support can be illegal if this is found. Dear House, We are all waiting for the end of this investigation, and the State Audit Office will carry it out, and I think the Parliament will then make the necessary conclusions from this. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-27-36	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2023-03-27-37	Dear Parliament, László Varju, DK; Balázs Barkóczi, DK; Andrea Hegedüs, DK; Zoltán Varga, DK; Ferenc Varga, independent; Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Judit Ráczné Földi, DK; Csaba Nagy, Fidesz. He applied for the speech before the agenda tomorrow: Máté Kanász-Nagy, LMP; Bence Tordai, Dialogue; Dóra Dúró, Mi Hazank; János Bencze, Jobbik; Zsolt Molnár, MSZP; Lajos Lőcsei, Momentum; Zoltán Komáromi, DK; László Szászfalvi, KDNP; Katalin Csöbör, Fidesz. He applied for the speech following the agenda tomorrow: Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Peter Jakab, independent; Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Péter Balassa, Jobbik; János Bencze, Jobbik. On Wednesday he applied for a speech after the agenda: Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik. On Friday he applied for a speech after the agenda: Dóra Dúró, Mi Hazank; Foreman Novák, Mi Hazank; Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik; Ander Balázs, Jobbik, László Keresztes, LMP; Péter Ovádi, Fidesz; János Bencze, Jobbik.
u2023-03-27-38	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Please take your seats, everyone has taken your seats and check that your card has been placed in the voting machine. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on the amendments to the agenda. The Group of the Mi Hazan Group has proposed that the proposal for a meeting of the Parliament on 27 March 28-29-31 March and 3 April 2023 should be amended to amend the T/637 on the publication of the Protocol on the accession of the Republic of Finland to the North Atlantic Treaty. The final vote on bill No 1 shall not take place at this meeting. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the visible majority of Parliament has not accepted the proposal. I declare that Mr László Toroczkai Group Leader has initiated a repetition of the vote using a voting counting machine. In accordance with the motion, I am now asking the Honourable Parliament to accept the amendment of the proposal on the agenda. Please vote now by using a ballot counting machine. [[Vote.]] I note that the Parliament did not accept the amendment of the agenda by 5 votes in favour, 163 votes against and 1 abstention. I would like to announce that the Momentum Group has proposed to amend the agenda proposal, which concerns the part of the House Rule 15 of the Resolution concerning the amendment of the agenda proposal. Paragraph 4a of the Act was rejected because it was not rejected under Article 15. It has been submitted in accordance with paragraph 4 of Section 4. The author of the rejected proposal initiated the repeal of the refusal decision. The Parliament decides on this without debate, with a raise of hands. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the scope of the OE-42/214-1/2023. Decision No. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has maintained the decision in its scope. As Parliament has maintained its decision in its scope, a decision on the proposal to amend the proposal on the agenda to supplement the proposal on the agenda will now not be taken. Dear Parliament, I would like to announce that the DK Group has proposed to amend the agenda proposal, which concerns the part of the House Rule 15 of the Decision concerning the amendment of the agenda proposal. Paragraph 4a of the Act was rejected because it was not rejected under Article 15. It has been submitted in accordance with paragraph 4 of Section 4. The author of the rejected proposal initiated the repeal of the refusal decision. The Parliament decides on this without debate, with a raise of hands. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the scope of the OE-42/213/1/2023. Decision No. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has maintained the decision in its scope. Dear Parliament, I declare that Mr Ferenc Gyurcsány Group leader has initiated a repetition of the vote using a voting counting machine. In accordance with the motion, I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the scope of the OE-42/213-1/2023. Decision No. Please vote by using a ballot counting machine. [[Vote.]] I declare that the Parliament has maintained the decision by 124 votes in favour, 46 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, The DK and Momentum Group suggested that T/638 on the announcement of the Protocol on the accession of the Kingdom of Sweden to the North Atlantic Treaty The Commission's reports are discussed on Monday 27 March 2023 as item 3 of the agenda. Anyone who agrees with that, vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I find that the visible majority of Parliament has not accepted the proposal. [[14.50]] I declare that Mr Ferenc Gyurcsány Group leader has initiated a repetition of the vote using a voting counting machine. In accordance with the motion, I am now asking the Honourable Parliament to accept the amendment of the proposal on the agenda. Please vote now by using a ballot counting machine. [[Vote.]] I note that the Parliament did not accept the amendment to the agenda by 46 votes in favour, 122 votes against and one abstention. Dear Parliament, I declare that the DK Group has proposed to supplement the agenda proposal, which is the House Rule 15. Paragraph 4a of the Act was rejected because it was not rejected under Article 15. In accordance with paragraph 4 of Section 4, it was submitted in the light of the fact that the House Rules of Decision 80. Paragraph 1 and Article 158 Article 17 provides that only proposals for decisions on a series of subjects may be included on the agenda of the Parliament's meeting. The author of the rejected proposal initiated the repeal of the refusal decision. The Parliament decides on this without debate, with a raise of hands. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the scope of the OE-42/215-023. Decision No. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has maintained the decision in its scope. Dear Parliament, I declare that Mr Ferenc Gyurcsány Group leader has initiated a repetition of the vote using a voting counting machine. In accordance with the motion, I am now asking the Honourable Parliament to maintain the scope of the OE-42/215-023. Decision No. Please vote now by using a ballot counting machine. [[Vote.]] I declare that the Parliament has maintained the decision by 123 votes in favour, 46 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, I declare that the MSZP Group has proposed to supplement the agenda proposal, which is the House Rule 15. Paragraph 4a of the Act was rejected because it was not rejected under Article 15. It has been submitted in accordance with paragraph 4 of Section 4. The author of the rejected proposal initiated the repeal of the refusal decision. The Parliament decides on this without debate, with a raise of hands. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the scope of the OE-42/212-1/2023. Decision No. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has maintained the decision in its scope. Dear Parliament, I declare that Mr Bertalan Tóth has initiated a repetition of the vote using a voting machine. In accordance with the motion, I am now asking the Honourable Parliament to maintain the scope of the OE-42/122-1/2023. Decision No. Please vote now by using a ballot counting machine. [[Vote.]] I declare that the Parliament has maintained the decision by 122 votes in favour, 45 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, In the absence of a committee agreement, on the basis of the motion tabled by the President, we are now deciding on the Commission's discussion and decision-making. I ask the Honourable Parliament to invite the designated Economic Committee to report to the Parliament on the activities of the Economic Competition Authority 2022, B/2878. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare that the Parliament has asked the designated committee to take a decision by 118 votes in favour, 51 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work by discussing the Commission's reports and the summarised amendments. I'm ordering a two-minute break. [[Several Members are leaving the Chamber.]] (Recess: 14.56-14.59) President: István Jakab Note: Dezső Believer)
u2023-03-27-39	Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I would like to ask my fellow Members to continue their work if they do not wish to participate in the further debate because of their public tasks. Thank you very much for your understanding. [[15.00]] Dear Parliament, It follows the XXV of 2022 on Hungary's central budget for 2023. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/2667. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as a minority and EU agenda item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Committee on Budgets and the views expressed on minorities will be presented in a total time frame of 60 minutes. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Szűcs, rapporteur of the committee. I would like to thank you for your cooperation and to give the session to Vice President Sándor Lezsák. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2023-03-27-40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, The T/2667 ahead. I can start with the Commission's report on the legislative proposal No.3 that, at the end of last year, it was not at all certain that the government would find a solution to this amending budget in its own competence, or that it would happen before Parliament. Therefore, at the end of last year, the Committee on Budgets decided to ask, if possible, the Ministry of Finance to report on how the government plans to change the budget, and this committee meeting took place at the beginning of this year. However, after the government decided to bring the amending budget to Parliament, the committee discussed it twice and dealt with it long enough to find accurate information on the amending budget. And not only the Committee, but also naturally the Fiscal Council, has done its task of amending the budget. It is very important to say that, in this regard, the budget law was discussed by the Economic Committee, apart from the Committee on Budgets. In both places, it was found that the bill complied with the House Rule 44. § (1) of the Law, so the bill meets the substantive and formal requirements arising from the Fundamental Law, fits into the legal system and complies with the obligations arising from international law and European Union law. I will now give the opinions of the negotiating committees, in line with the fact that only things can be said here in front of this House, which were also said at the committee meeting. Opinion of the Committee on Budgets. Unfortunately, Europe is threatened by recession due to the prolonged Russian-Ukrainian war, the misguided sanctions and the resulting energy crisis. Today, expert estimates are forecasting a total increase of 0.3 percent for the European Union as a whole. The Hungarian plan remains more ambitious as the current amendment plans to increase by 1.5 percent. It has become clear that the budget needs to be adapted to the new economic circumstances, as there is greater uncertainty with less growth. In such a situation, we had to set the priorities that we consider important and we want to preserve, because we must not allow our achievements to be put at risk by a war that Hungary has nothing to do with. With this in mind, the government has committed itself to the protection of electricity, the preservation of one million new jobs previously created, as well as the preservation and expansion of pensions and family support systems. The war also highlighted the need to further strengthen Hungary's security. In this way, defence will continue to receive a high priority in the budget, with more than 50 percent more resources to protect the country by nearly HUF 482 billion this year. This means that defence spending increases more than six times compared to 2010 to approximately HUF 1395 billion. As a result of the legislative amendment submitted, the deficit in the government sector is changed to 3.9 percent in 2023 in proportion to the total national product. Due to the adverse global economy environment, the government has also increased the central reserve. In addition, pension expenditure and interest expenditure will be significantly higher than in the original budget. With regard to the operation of the State, the budget remains null and void, so the cost of public services remains financed by the State from its operating revenues. In order to promote economic growth, deficits arise only in the case of domestic accumulation and EU development budgets. The government considers it a priority that, should the national total product increase by more than 1.5 per cent in 2023, the additional revenue should be used to reduce the deficit, encouraging the achievement of the deficit target of 3 per cent or less. The debt-to-GDP ratio will also decrease in 2023, from 73.5 per cent at the end of 2022 to 69,7 per cent by the end of 2023. In conclusion, despite the war in the neighbourhood and its sanctions, the government remains committed to improving balance indicators and reducing deficit and debt levels. Opinion of the Economic Committee. We're in the age of danger. After the outbreak, we now have to deal with the economic and energy crisis that follows the war and its follow-up. The prolonged war and the failed sanctions policy in Brussels have brought the whole of Europe's economy into crisis. We can say that the budget for 2023 is a budget for the protection of electricity. Hungary's energy bill has increased from 7 to 17 billion euros. However, the Rezségvédelmi Fund provides a significant source of more than HUF 2600 billion to help families, state institutions and local authorities to contribute to increased expenditure. We will continue to keep the premium for every Hungarian family up to the average consumption. Despite the challenges of the international economic and political environment, Hungary can take further important steps. Family allowances will continue to expand in 2023, so mothers who have children before the age of 30 will be exempt from personal income tax up to the average wage level. The budget will also cover the 15 per cent pension increase, which will also cover the 13th month pension. In 2023, the budget will spend HUF 6150 billion on pensions and pension-like benefits, the largest item of the budget. The budget also highlights the continuation of career plans, including wage increases in education and health. Our main objective is to maintain full employment, to protect over one million new jobs since 2010. Workplace protection programmes will therefore continue in 2023 and work taxes will be kept low. Our priority is to maintain economic growth and to continue to increase investment in Hungary. The Hungarian economy is expected to grow by 1.5 percent in 2023 and our aim is to reduce inflation to one digit by the end of the year. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, In view of this, I ask you, by giving the Commission's opinions, that the Parliament accept the amending budget by listening to the Commission's opinions. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[15.10]]
u2023-03-27-41	Thank you very much, Congressman Lajos Szűcs, notary. Dear Parliament, The minority opinion of the Committee on Budgets will be presented by two speakers within a total timeframe of 30 minutes. First, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Vajda.
u2023-03-27-42	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, As Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, I believe it is important that the plenary session is also able to learn about the criticisms that have been raised in the minority during the debate on this year's bill for amending the budget. It's not for nothing. I am convinced that this will be a missed opportunity for the government later, an opportunity for the Parliament to accept a sound budget that is more credible to the markets, which would have been able to manage in an appropriate way the extraordinary inflation rate which would have affected the Hungarian economy in recession and the incomes of Hungarian families. Well, unfortunately, it didn't, because I said a year ago that it was fictitious, premature, but at least problematic, and particularly opaque in relation to the government's budget proposal for 2023. This opinion, if more diplomatically expressed, was also shared by the Fiscal Council. I told you then that the draft budget was not transparent, risky, hurrah-optimist. International analyses point to the fact that the Hungarian budget in the European Union is the least transparent and the risks are due to hurrah-optimism. It was difficult to believe that inflation would be only 5 percent in 2023, or that Hungary would be able to achieve a 4.1 percent increase in GDP. Well, ten months later, we can agree that our criticisms were justified and well founded, because 5 percent inflation today is even more dreamy, especially if we consider that the MNB considers an up to 18 percent rate of deterioration to be possible for the whole of 2023. The 4.1 percent increase in GDP is a miracle even released by the government, which would be difficult to advertise in the light of the fact that our country has unfortunately entered a technical recession. You couldn't control the budget deficit, which is surprising in terms of the fact that no Hungarian government has collected as much tax from the Hungarian families as it is now. The government also wins on record price increases in the form of 27 percent VAT. Only one more piece of data from your summer promises holds its place, and this is the HUF exchange rate, but this was also at a high price: 13 per cent of the central bank base rate and 18 per cent of the MNB interest rate came in, setting decades of records. An interest rate of 18% should be paid indirectly to Hungarian taxpayers so that investors do not collapse the forint. This has already been reported months ago, according to experts, to HUF 50 billion a month, adding that this amount has certainly increased since then. In such a macroeconomic situation, the government acknowledged that the budget of 2023 could not be kept and that its text had been removed. At first, it was settled only in a government decree bypassing Parliament completely, and it had to wait until the spring of 2023 for our Committee on Budgets to be able to deal with it. So for the third month, the bill that we have now negotiated has been in force, but it cannot be said responsibly that this version would be more well-founded and transparent. We can be sure that, over the course of the year, dozens of government resolutions will rearrange each line again. In relation to public education, this has practically already been announced. Due to the plans of the Ministry of Interior, it will also be necessary to rewrite the amendment to the budget. What can be seen, however, is that despite constant modification, neither public education nor university education, nor health care, nor social care providers, the government wants to devote more substantially, which has already led to serious consequences in everyday life. Teachers preparing for the future generation are more likely to be dismissed, but they refuse to listen to their legitimate demands to increase their valueless salary and improve their working conditions. You don't listen to doctors and other medical staff, even though the final hours of the system are marked by increasing hospital debt mountains, waiting lists, patients' horrific hospital conditions. You don't listen to the university instructors, even though you expect someone to go to a Ph.D. student research course today with a grant of 140 thousand forints, or to teach a doctorate assistant who speaks two foreign languages for a net amount of 200 to 220 thousand forints, so that a starting employee will earn more in the fast food chain next to the university for eight hours. Well, it's your unjust country, and it won't do anything to change the budget, and it could have started. It is also regrettable that the government still did not want to take any meaningful action against inflation, at least by extending the reduced VAT rate of 5% to additional products, or by considering that basic foodstuffs should be allowed to enjoy at least temporary but VAT-free. If anything, it's for this, or there's got to be money. When unprecedented records are decided by the state's VAT revenue, there is no way to explain why the government wants to maintain this situation. Hungarian inflation is also a record in the EU because it is your fault, nothing else. That is what your President of the Central Bank, Viktor Orbán's former right-hand man, who is probably saying what he is saying for a reason. Such circumstances were therefore granted during the negotiation of a bill amending the budget of 2023. It is not a coincidence that 72 individual representatives had proposed amendments which wanted to make improvements, but none had the support of the majority. Finally, Budapest XIV. Districts and XVI. As an individual parliamentary representative of the district, I wish to express my disappointment when, for the second time, I had to realize that despite the fine words of Fidesz, in fact, the strongest rejection of the support for the development of the district. No matter what, he's a pro-government leader in the 16th century. district, you've already said no to the renovations of the district, overpass constructions, refurbishing the HÉV line, developing the old people's home. I believe that in the municipal elections due in almost a year's time, you will have to answer that, because neither XIV nor XVI have. district residents don't like empty promises, especially broken ones. Thank you very much for your attention, thank you. [[Applause from the lines of LMP, MSZP and Dialogue.]]
u2023-03-27-43	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Vajda. I now give the floor to Congressman Ander Balázs.
u2023-03-27-44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I can say the same thing as my pro-government colleague. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's good.]] I am sorry, at least, that there is nothing else to say here in plenary than at the committee meeting. So I apologize to the Secretary of State for having to hear again what I did there on behalf of the Jobbik-Conservatives. It is very important that the areas that we would put in the spotlight should be discussed as often as possible, as this is what we believe would mean the success and future survival of the Hungarian nation. Well, the chapters concerning education concerning the amendment of Hungary's draft central budget for 2023 are not the future, not the unfolding. Taking the most important figures into consideration, it is clear that the educational area is specifically one of the losers, and if you look at not only the numbers, but also the intentions, for example, the new certification system to be introduced, and then the removal of the civil servant status of teachers, then these intentions will give us an even more gloomy picture, but this will be done in a different way, at other times. Then I would like to refer to pro-government Members, State Secretarys, my fellow Member Nacsa, you may like this, too. Not so long ago, Minister of State Bence Rétvári at the Vila Fejér County, at a project closing, said that it was worth investing in education, but unfortunately, we are adding that, in practice, little will be achieved next year. If you can disprove it, go ahead and do it. Then, with regard to vocational training, Viktor Orbán himself said that the knowledge of our young people is the golden cover of our competitiveness. But how? So, on the basis of the promise that remained empty, we could have thought that they might finally heed the words of László Révész, the leader of the complex basic program responsible for the renewal of the Hungarian pedagogical methodology, who warned that in countries with the most successful education they would attract the best to the teaching career, but then they would be valued both morally and financially. [[15.20]] So, not only should they be drawn there, but these young educators should also be kept on the field, because the dropout is terrible. We would like to finally get to the government's ears the voices that say that the budget share of the educational area is insufficient, do not reach the level that society considers necessary. We hope and hope that they will finally grasp the essence of the 2007 McKinsey report, which says that the teacher is the key actor in education, so they will finally be appreciated. We would like to trust you to understand that the National Pedagogist Faculty is not about an opposition organization that has been calling for years: only 40 out of a hundred graduates are starting to teach, and one third of them are dropping out of speed, and very few of the best are preparing for the teaching career. Let's take a look at, let's say, the high school seniors' intentions for further education. We would also like to think that it will be dusted down, yes, János Ember's book written in 1886 The financial situation of the Hungarian folk teacher, and they are ashamed that the situation has deteriorated since then, they realize that he is right about István Polónyi's research, that the teacher's career is poorly paid and has a very low employment prestige. But in addition to the circumstantial education studies, it would be enough to hear, say, some educators from the real world, for example, the chemistry teacher who was the best in his profession, in his profession, and was forced to leave this wonderful career, because he realized that he could not support his family. How will this make Hungary competitive, pro-government representatives and ladies? You don't! The indicator of education expenditure in proportion to GDP is only enough for vegetation, and I would add that Romania has already reached Hungary in terms of GDP, so it will be enough to survive, as this area would have to reach 6-7 percent in order to jump to the quality level, but it would have to accept Klebelsberg's words: education is the new defence portfolio. And if, at some point, this sacredness is true, then it is XXI. The beginning of the century. According to Jobbik-Conservatives, we do need a Klebelsberg turnaround. Insufficient appreciation of the pedagogical society follows a pure neoliberal sociopathic model, and they clearly do not believe in the truth that education is the main human capital system, and the most important factor in production is human knowledge capable of producing high added value. And the most important product of the school is to put it in such a nasty way, nothing more than a capable person. Indeed, the country's real gold reserve would be the young people, the educated people, but this budget does not guarantee that the quality of education will improve, i.e. increase its efficiency and effectiveness, as well as substantially improve fairness. If the nation's day laborers are crippled into poorly paid servants of power, there is an intention to do so, there will be no increase in competitiveness. You may win a tactical victory, gentlemen and ladies of the government, but the Hungarian nation will suffer a strategic defeat. The following statement will lead us to the second area, which we would also like to focus on. This means that the Hungarian school system, which produces poor average performance, is socially polarised, highly selective, and that the school performance of students in the EU is mainly determined by the family background index. Unfortunately, often the school can't compensate, it doesn't help mobility, but where you come from, you stay there and its relentless truth prevails. Of course, it is very important that dedication is the best way to bring teachers to the teaching career, but proper financial appreciation is not a triviality. It's not right and it's not profitable for competitiveness, so I used this concept a lot of cheaply exploitable, so, to consider the Hungarian teachers, whose shoulders can handle everything, as a kind of cheaply exploitable, public-use superman or Übermensch. We leave our dearest treasure, the light of our eyes and our children to them, and this should also come back in the budget lines, because it is a nonsense condition that, if necessary, the storekeeper of a multi-business company will take home more than a Hungarian educator. However, if you look at the figures here from 22 to 23, Klebelsberg Center's personal allowances will increase from HUF 480 billion to just HUF 540.5 billion, which will not be increased by the planned amendment. This is even a 12.5 percent nominal increase that does not compensate for the inflation effect, which would require a much higher increase if they were to meet the objectives that I had taken the liberty of setting first. I know, the answer is Brussels. However, after Klebelsberg Trianon, he did not pick me up in Paris for teacher's wages, so we believe that any reference that would make an increase in teacher's wages dependent on Brussels is false. The part of the Hungarian pedagogical society under Klebelsberg Center also deserves at least 50 percent salary increase, so instead of 480 billion forints in 2022, 720 billion would be acceptable in the amended budget. In our opinion, the funding of the 240 billion forints of additional resources is available, and our committee chairman, Mr Vajda, has already told us where additional funds could be obtained from, let us say, for such purposes. There's that horrible ferocious face you've imposed on the Hungarian nation, it'd cover it, it'd cover it many times. But then let's get to the other cardinal area, which is the social sphere's world. Well, it should be considered and, in fact, carved into a gold tablet, the words, the sentiment, which says that the most important source of competitiveness of a country is the knowledgeable, healthy and life-satisfied population, which has the opportunity to work in jobs where it can utilize its knowledge and continuously increase and provide a decent standard of living and quality of life for itself and his family. When 30 percent of Hungarian society lives below the minimum of living, I think this is just another illusion as it stands. In order to ensure this, there is also a key role to be played by the dedicated workers of the social sphere, since it is clear that Article 21 of the Financial Regulation provides for the right of workers to be employed in the social sphere. Strengthening human capital systems would mean our 100th-century survival and success. The state of human capital in relation to the social subsystem, which is the most important in addition to education and health, is also devastating. I am not the first to point out that even though Fidesz has been in power for 13 years, the incomes of those who work in this area are still shamefully low. Unlike teachers, social professionals who care for the youngest, care for our eldest countrymen, and help the weakest, virtually no longer have any promises, and they even feel sorry for the honey business. For them, there will be little wage to cover the miserable vegetation from today to tomorrow. If a truly civil and deserving, rather than a new feudal system were to be built, it would be a fundamental objective on the part of the current government that social status is not determined by the individual's birth status for the rest of his life. That is why it would be wise to value professionals who work to reduce social inequalities. I have explained earlier, if the government were not guided by a genuine neoliberal approach, it would not be possible for a permanent government failure to have such a brutal effect on the social sphere. The 90,000 workers here are entitled to feel deceived, betrayed, and humiliated. Yet, these professionals are often the last refuge for those who have been given up by everyone else. Obviously, as a responsible conservative party, we do not regard self-care as something of the devil, but we also consider solidarity important. Yeah, solidarity. My excellent fellow Member, Dániel Z. Kárpát, would like to recommend to the attention of my pro-government colleagues, say, the national food programme, which would greatly help to solve the problems that I have just outlined and which, shame, shame, and not just the least, but also those working in the field of education or the social sphere. [[15.30]] It would be important for the Hungarian state to set an example and not to leave the workers of the social sector out of this solidarity. Those who are fighting in the first line of defense against the social crisis often face an unfairly serious livelihood problem themselves. Obviously, all these problems may seem marginal from the world of protected luxury parks and the lounge centers in the cabaret. As a responsible conservative party, we do not believe in the omnipotence of the state, so there is no problem of coherence here, my fellow Member Nacsa, but also in the neoliberal inhumanity that has lied to the premature welfare state and is practically lying to the system right now. Over and over again, here and now we have to say that firefighting is no longer enough. If a human resources disaster is to be avoided by the government, there is also a need for rapid and genuine wage arrangements in the social sphere. Trust me, investing in Hungarian people, in Hungarian human capital, is the best investment ever! We consider it a major, seriously worrying problem that the amount spent on sectoral allowances was still very low, HUF 122.5 billion in 2022; this would be HUF 135.5 billion in 23, which is a nominal increase of around 10 per cent, which is far from covering inflation. The third area for which we spoke was health care. Our proposal was intended to improve the unworthy situation of health professionals, which was also clearly carried out in the trash from the pro-government part. But if someone is genuinely faced with the lack of labour, the shortage of workers, the emigration that concerns the health sector, and if they honestly face, say, the health condition of the Hungarian nation, our mortality data, then they must admit that it would be a fundamental obligation, let us say, to adopt such an amendment. Since you have not done so, the Jobbik-Conservatives can now say that for the reasons listed above, we will not be able to support this budget amendment. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2023-03-27-45	Thank you very much, Congressman Ander Balázs. Dear Parliament, I will ask the author, Mr Péter Benő Banai, whether he wishes to speak now or at the end. [[Peter Benő Banai: Not now.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the representative of nationality invited by the committee representing the nationalities to speak. I give the floor to Imre Ritter, a representative of the minority, who describes the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language and then translates them into Hungarian. You have the floor.
u2023-03-27-46	[[???Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parlament! Jetzt, während dieser Debatte können wir, als Ausschuss, keinen Berichterstatter ernennen, so erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich als Parlamentsabgeordneter unseren Standpunkt erörtere.???]] Mr President, Dear House, The Committee of Hungarian Nationalities cannot present a rapporteur at this debate stage, so allow me to express our opinion as a representative on XXV 2022 on Hungary's central budget for 2023. T/2667. on the national aspects of the legislation submitted to the European Parliament and to the Council. Even when we adopted the 2023 Budget Act last year, we knew that we would have significant extra costs in several areas, despite this understanding of the problems facing our country, we accepted our role as well, that, as in 2021, there would be no increase in minority support in the Finance Act. At the same time, there are three main areas of nationality, which require central action, with significant additional costs in the 2023 budget year, which are as follows. The first large area is to raise the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, and to increase the sectoral bonus for teachers. The government released 70/2023 on the night of March 10th. [[CHAPTER III 10.]] Regulation No.3 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2002 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data (OJ L 8, 12.1.2001, p. 1). Thank you for that. The second area is to ensure that the additional cost of energy is covered. For the fourth quarter of 2022, the national authorities and their national minority public education institutions received some HUF 405 million in additional energy cost compensation, which we also thank for. In the area of technical implementation, it was very positive that, although compensation for the number of children was involved, the grants could be adapted to the actual needs of the national and local national authorities within the envelope, taking into account the institutional specialities. This week there will be a consultation between the minority committee, the Association of National National Governments and the professional wallets. Hopefully, within days of this, the Government decree will also come out to provide an advance on energy compensation in 2023. In the light of the evolution of the actual additional costs, it is also certain that more compensation is needed in the course of the year, but we also see the situation in this area as reassuring. A third area of serious concern is the financing of additional costs for mass catering. During the general debate, I have already presented the figures for the actual additional costs of the 2021-22 survey, according to which, in 2023, the additional cost of mass catering may exceed HUF 1 billion for nearly 15,000 young people in more than one hundred ethnic minority public education institutions. Here we must stress the need for a significant increase in the basic normative principle, but also for ad hoc compensation on the basis of the examination per institution, as there are very significant differences from the average to some institutions in both a positive and a negative direction. We look forward to a concrete coordination of this serious problem with the government and the possibility of developing a solution. In the hope of this, and on the basis of this, we have not submitted any concrete amendments to the 2023 budget, but on the basis of the continuous data survey, we will submit to the government several times during the year the necessary national minority compensation needs and look forward to their positive and effective fulfilment. In the light of what has been said, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary has adopted the T/2667. It supports and asks Parliament for its adoption. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit! [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-03-27-47	Thank you very much, Congressman Ritter Imre. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. Time frame on display; first, I give the floor to Mr László Toroczkai, representative of Mi Hazank.
u2023-03-27-48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have already said my opinion on the budget as a keynote speaker, and I am pleased that we have the opportunity to debate the budget for 2023 in Parliament within the framework of the Parliament. At the same time, last summer, when we first talked about the budget, I told you, and the Group of the Hungarian Movement said that the budgetary idea that the government had presented to us will be unsustainable, and we predicted that inflation would go away. Then the last time I talked about the budget from here, the pulpit, I said that this was not the government's statement, but the budget for inflation. [[15.40]] Obviously, in these few minutes, I do not have the opportunity and opportunity to go through the budget pitfalls as long as before, but I would like to back this up with a few figures, mainly depending on the time since then, on why inflation is budgeted and why it is not a budget for public debt. This bill also accounts for 15 percent inflation. Once again, we would like to warn the government that this is another kind of dream world or a misdirection of voters, since KSH data show that inflation was 25.7 per cent in January 2023, and inflation was more than 25 per cent in February, 25.4 per cent. We hope that it will be, as the Prime Minister said, that by the end of the year he promises that inflation will be one-digit, we just want to predict that this will not be due to the government's work, but to the base effect, and that this absolutely brutal and amazing inflation will be reduced on its own. In comparison, I would just like to note that inflation in January, i.e. as measured by the HCSO, is the peak of 25.7 percent inflation, which was here in 1996 in Hungary, i.e. at the time of the Bokros package. A few years ago, our constituents, I mean, those who voted for us, surely remember that we predicted that we would get to where Hungary was held in 1996 at the time of the Covid measures. I am very sorry that the prophet spoke of us, but I would like to make it clear that we did not say this as a psychic, but that it was very simply predictable as a result of the government's economic policy decisions. And then let's look at some numbers in these few minutes. I'd just like to confirm with these few numbers what our homeland movement said earlier. When I just described inflation, let me highlight a very, very important part of it. We had to pay 55.5 percent more for the rent, and we paid 44.8 percent more for food in recent months. This is what affects Hungarians most. If you go into the store, the last thing you do is cut back on every economic crisis you can give up is food. So first you can give up on a more expensive car or more expensive clothes, food is not something you can give up. And if you have to cancel and buy the cheaper one, that is again a problem, because it will increase the number of cancers again and cause other health problems, because Hungary is otherwise dumping, and is constantly being dumped and imported by multinationals and global corporations in the form of toxic, cheap foods. According to the January data I just presented, the Hungarian food price is among the ten worst performing countries in the world. We have also been talking for years about the causes of this catastrophic situation. The government is very simply dealing with this crisis and inflation by having only external causes: the European Union and the collective West, a sanctions policy for transatlantic policy. This is partly true, and from the very first moment we say that we are against this sanctions policy, which is ruining Hungary, Germany and the economy of the European Union as a whole. That is why we are very saddened to see Fidesz and the Prime Minister in Brussels taking part in the collective decision that serves this sanctions policy in Hungarian: he also supports sanctions when he is there. Then the government also says that this crisis has occurred because of energy prices. In part, the government is right about this, but it does not say the other very important reason, because inflation in the European Union fell to 9.9 percent in February. Well, then, why is there more than 25 percent food inflation in Hungary, and nearly 45 percent food inflation in Hungary? This is the part that the government doesn't talk about anymore, which is why our country movement is talking about it. On the one hand, one of the very, very important causes of this is that the low productivity of the Hungarian food industry, which we have been talking about for years, still exists, just as the import rate of food is very high in Hungary, a country that would be a traditional, traditional agricultural country. At present, we are talking about the fact that, in relation to agricultural productivity, we can only prevent Bulgaria within the European Union, which is a truly huge disaster. György Matolcsy also acknowledges this, but unfortunately the Hungarian National Bank is also responsible for inflation, when after the Covid measures, he pumped 11 000 billion forints into the economy as a loan. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you very much, and I'm sorry. [[Applause from the ranks of our country and the Jobbik.]]
u2023-03-27-49	Congressman, thank you very much. The next speaker is Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2023-03-27-50	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, On the budget, I think there was a long debate here in the general debate, where representatives and keynote speakers of several parties demanded that the government immediately bring the amendment of the budget of 2023 to Parliament, while we were at the debate on amending the budget of 2023. There has been a slight misstep, I feel that the role of Parliament and the way in which the budget is used in opposition parties, but thank God, this has come to light. Now everyone has had enough time to read the budget proposal, to go through it and even to discuss it in detail at the Commission stage. My fellow opposition Members, Mr Ander, have talked about a lot of things, but he has not touched on a lot of things, which you might even think is right to have in the budget, and it is right that such a course should be included in the budget in such a difficult, critical time, even in times of danger. It is quite clear that the enlarged Rezhi Fund is a key element of the budget. Instead of the planned HUF 670 billion, the government set aside HUF 2610 billion to protect Hungarian families and businesses from rising energy prices. We can see what a huge increase in costs this is, what war causes, what sanctions cause. Last year, in 2022, Hungarians spent HUF 4000 billion on misguided sanctions in Brussels and the bad effects of war, which increased energy costs. I think it is commendable and right for the government to keep the household overhead reduction up to the level of average consumption at such a difficult time, so that Hungarian families can continue to pay the cheapest electricity and gas prices in Europe to the level of average consumption. We guarantee that the retail rent reduction will be maintained in its current form in 2023, so an average Hungarian family saved HUF 181 thousand a month through reclaimed prices. If we see that the age of danger has arrived and we see that there is a war going on next door to us, then it is also a priority area for defence, because peace requires strength. In 2023 we spend more money than ever before on the security of the country, the Hungarian people and their assets. In one year, there will be nearly 50 percent more resources for defence, 482 billion forints. This means that defence spending increases more than six times compared to 2010, to some HUF 1395 billion, and thus looks like we can also deliver on our NATO commitment to achieve the 2 percent defence expenditure. It is very gratifying that in this 2 percent defence expenditure, in this huge increase, we can also spend on improvements, and the capabilities, technology and innovation capabilities of the Hungarian Defence Forces are constantly increasing, thus the safety of Hungary is increasingly guaranteed. We also pay special attention to our elderly compatriots. The Fidesz-KDNP government aims to preserve the value of pensions in the sanctions crisis as well. This is served by the last 15 percent increase in January 2023. As you well know, the 13th month's retirement has begun in previous years. This is what you on the left have taken away from the people, so we have been able to pay a full 13th month's pension two years earlier than planned, in 2022, and the budget has been able to bear this item. We not only introduced the 13th month pension, but we also maintain it. The Hungarian pensioners received the 13th monthly pension at the beginning of this year, which was also covered by the 15 percent increase at the beginning of the year, and the 13th month pension was increased by 15 percent for Hungarian pensioners. Budget resources for pensions are close to HUF 5550 billion, while pension-like benefits receive an additional HUF 600 billion. We are committed to what we promised pensioners in 2010 to protect the real value of pensions. We also managed to deliver on this commitment, and even the purchasing value of pensions increased by nearly 20 percent between 2011 and 2023, with the increase in pensions and the retirement of the 13th month pension. [[15.50]] The budget for 2023 will spend a total of HUF 3357 billion on supporting families with children. Here, Mr Ander also spoke about children and talked about families; HUF 3357 billion is the amount that we use to support families with children in the 2023 budget. This is a HUF 580 billion higher than the budget for the year 2010, Mr. honourable Member, by HUF 580 billion higher than the budget for 2022. Nearly three and a half times compared to 2010, the government spends nearly HUF 2420 billion more on supporting Hungarian families in 2023. In this difficult, war-related and sanctioned situation, the national government stands firm to support the home-building programme, as well as to help families with children and children access their own homes with significant amounts of state aid and interest subsidies. Let us remember that the left-wing governments, in times of crisis, could not compare with the times of the present dangers, eliminated the housing benefits, eliminated the favourable forint-based housing loans, and chased the Hungarian families into debt-slaving foreign currency loans. In 2009, the share of foreign exchange loans in the total population was over 70 percent, and 1.5 million people were at risk of direct eviction now under 1 percent, my fellow Members. The percentage of foreign exchange loans in the retail loan portfolio was 70 percent on the left, and now 1 percent on the retail loan pool is a huge difference in the share of foreign currency loans! Let's not forget, this is due to the fact that you guys have pretty much dismantled the system of family support and home-building. I consider it an extremely important result that from 1 January 2022, young people under the age of 25 are exempt from personal income tax up to the level of average wage. Consider an example. At the time of the governance of Mr Vajda's party, the MSZP, he is now leading the Committee on Budgets, is it not, during the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments, a young worker under the age of 25 received about 50 percent of his gross salary, whereas from 2022 he receives 81.5 percent of his gross salary. This is an obvious difference, and I think we can all agree on that, so I regret that you have not supported or even spoken against these measures. It doesn't matter that a young person who wants to start his career, a young man who wants to create his own life, brings home 50 percent of his salary or 81.5 percent of his salary. This is a real help for young people. In this extremely difficult situation, the national Christian Democratic Government, Fidesz-KDNP, does not reduce but further increase family support, as mothers who have had children before the age of 30 this year are also exempt from the payment of personal income tax up to the level of average wage. In addition to the above, we will continue to maintain the important elements of the family support system again this year, family support, family tax relief, first-married benefits, tax exemption for mothers with four or more children, CSOK, home renovation aid, tax refund support, mortgage reduction aid, interest rate subsidies on preferential loans, child catering and free textbook provision. Both families and non-family workers will benefit from the reduced monthly rent for the county from 1 May of this year for HUF 9450 and for HUF 18 900 per month. In my opinion, this measure also contributes to the increased use of environmentally friendly, car-free Community transport and to the promotion of domestic tourism. We support energy intensive companies with a HUF 220 billion framework this year, we announced the Széchenyi Card Programme, the Factory Savings Programme, the Factory Saving Guarantee and Loan Programme, we spend HUF 230 billion on supporting the energy efficiency of large companies, and we extended the interest rate stop to loans from small and medium-sized enterprises, with a loan of HUF 2000 billion and we helped 60 thousand companies. Just a few of the measures that have been left out of your list. I understand it's not fashionable in opposition circles, and it's not your job to praise the government, but they're so... Dániel Z. Kárpát said in his speech before the agenda that we should stay on the basis of numbers, and I agree with that. I have now listed figures that, I think, in a difficult situation, in a crisis situation, are praiseworthy, worthy of recognition, these are corner numbers. I do not think that a Hungarian Member of Parliament is sitting in the Hungarian Parliament who cannot always add extra targets to the budget. There's a blanket, you have to stretch until our blanket hits. We do not want this country to be developed by credit, as the left-wing people have done, but, along the Hungarian economic policy, together with Hungarian businesses, we are able to produce the funds necessary for the operation of the country, the funds necessary for the development. We do not wish what left-wing politicians had done before, that they would take on loans without necks, while using it for operation and not for development. [[Zoltán Vajda intervenes.]] [[Zoltán Vajda intervenes.]] [[Zoltán Vajda intervenes.]] , not for development, but for operation, and I think it is important (Zoltán Vajda intervenes.) , that in such a difficult situation we can show that employment remains at record level (Zoltán Vajda intervenes). that last year there was economic growth, and this year it is not a recession, but an economic growth. I think the result is that family support has not decreased in this situation, but has increased. I think the result is that families who have children get more money, not less. And, of course, there are many areas where additional budgetary resources will have to be made available, and we are working to keep economic growth going, and the more money that Parliament can decide here, so that we can further reduce taxes 80 times in the last 13 years, we want taxes to be reduced further. [[Zoltán Vajda intervenes.]] that is exactly where this budget is pointing, which, yes, had to be amended, yes, Parliament is amending it, yes, it is right that, in such a difficult situation, a lot of unexpected forecasts have to be changed. [[Zoltán Vajda: That's why we have to make a budget at the end of the year!]] You also said in the elections why we didn't tell you what the price of energy would be. No one could say on 3 April last year why by July, August, the price of gas would rise above 300 euros, no one could say that this would happen, honourable Members. No one could tell us what economic processes were taking place because of the war. [[Zoltán Vajda intervenes.]] Even though no one could say that if we had had a good guess, we probably would have guessed that the European Union was pursuing a suicide policy with sanctions, because the sanctions for the European Union, the European Member States, are more painful than the target aggressor for Russia, because the original aim of the sanctions was to target the aggressor, instead it hit the European States, now the bulk of the price of sanctions, the weight of the sanctions is carried on their shoulders by the European States. We don't think that's right. [[Zoltán Vajda intervenes]] This is why, in particular, energy sanctions need to be reviewed. As we have said in the general debate, this is a very different way of crisis management than what the socialists have done, it was a scandalous crisis management, which has left people out of work, where everyone has become poorer, except for the socialists, because, as we have long known from the saying, sooner or later, the socialists are always running out of other people's money. Thank God, the national Christian Democratic Government is also expanding family support in crisis management, increasing support for businesses, which is why we are going to support the amendment of the budget, which is what I urge you to do. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-27-51	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. The next speaker is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, representative of Jobbik.
u2023-03-27-52	Mr President, Dear House, Falling Atlantis. This expression was introduced to Parliament by my excellent fellow Member, Balázs Ander, very often when he described demographic conditions, unfortunately the low number of live births and the difficulties of family members. I would like to highlight, from what has been said at detailed and Commission level, the part that is specifically about families and, by the way, the consequences of demographic collapse. Allow me a footnote. I am shocked by the news that 500,000 workers are missing from the Hungarian labour market, and in parallel Hungary has allowed at least 500,000 of our countrymen to emigrate out of necessity without inventing a housing program for them, without at least starting to implement the earlier concept of wage union towards multi-company companies. Secretary of State, if only in the strategic agreement with the multinationals were there to catch up slowly on wages, the European is not Western European, the European! On average, we would have made progress on this. Productivity would have been allowed, if not in scale, but in recent years much higher wage increases than have been faced. With regard to the sinking Atlantis, yes, amending the budget, amending the regulation, and then the most important issue of the Commission section and the plenary debate is what the government is doing with unexpected revenues. So what you're doing with the VAT surplus that you weren't expecting, which came together because families are forced to pay higher prices, i.e. after basic foods, food types, and here there's a $1,500 billion surplus if you're going to extend a year. [[16.00]] We say that a national food support programme would be good if, not only for the needy, but also, in a typical life situation, a couple of teachers who have two children could operate in a targeted way. But it would be a prerequisite for the introduction of a price cap system, as I am one of those who do not argue with György Matolcsy in this matter, in other ways, strongly, and yes, for example, I consider him to be one of the main culprits, but it can also be seen that I do not have a dispute with him here, on this issue at all, I think that the inflationary data has been pushed by at least 3-4 percent by the fact that the prices of some products have been stabilised, and in some thousands they have allowed price increases to be incorporated. Obviously, President Matolcsy would now say that it is good, but there is no exchange rate target in the Central Bank Act, and I would say to the government that, then, let us see how the value of the national currency can be protected. But from a budgetary point of view, my fellow Member Nacsa rightly quoted the substantial amount of family support, and I would like to call you to keep this high level, so I do not think that anyone should be against it. Some statistical magic is in the system because more than 200 billion of the otherwise good philosophy of women's 40, so basically a form of pension support, are also classified as family support. And we could go through this one by one, why it's not so big, but I think it's a small debate, so let's not argue about that. Let's see why this amount doesn't come in handy. So how is it that one of Europe's largest family support for GDP has resulted in so little or low number of live births over the last ten years. Obviously, you cannot be counted for the first one or two years because there was a decade of not so much steel in front of you, and then I put it very, very delicately, there was a Bokros package and other spill-over effects, so let's not argue about it, but overall, it is a failure not only to formulate demographic goals, but unfortunately, not to meet them is also a failure. The hardest was one of the back organs that in their annual report figured out that they should have a live birth number of 110,000 a year, and connected this goal to a red line with the current data, but forgot to write how it would happen. In the meantime, the Ratko grandchildren were allowed to leave the parental age when they were able to take on a large number of offspring and there was no housing programme for them, there was no programme of a wage Union nature that could have stabilized them in this country. And my fellow Member, Nacsa, allow me to say what you said about foreign exchange credentials is something quite amazing. So I'm telling you that the demographic figures are not very high, but it would be a little obvious if the lives of tens of thousands of families weren't allowed to be broken. The fact is that you had the opportunity to make a loan of 165 forints, 165 forints. You didn't do this, you made a deal with the banks, you made a HUF 256 exchange rate. The EBRD pact, the Banking Pact, they've made a deal with everyone but the victims. Now, obviously, you're going to stand up and tell me that we didn't make it up, that this market rate is not so good, that you're really giving up the interests of the victims, but the Curia has told us this, and the reality is, no, the Curia hasn't said that. You were oriented by the Curia, but you immediately went out of this dimension with your first decision, and you invented a discount rate of 180 forints for the lucky ones, for those who could collect this by mobilizing family and other reserves. So it is not true that the Curia has limited you, because you were able to achieve that there was a preferential exchange rate by aiming at the end-payment, partly towards the talented entrepreneurial class; the ordinary Hungarian citizen, who was later evicted, was not. And don't forget, the executive chamber [[Sic!]] His website is the organization that he is, and he has revealed the things that he is, but the number of evictions on the website is relatively well tracked. If you recall, my fellow Member, you have agreed quarterly quotas with the executives on how many people can be thrown on the street on a quarterly basis without accommodation. There, if you add up, you will find that a little over 23,000 evictions have taken place in Hungary since 2010 without accommodation. We don't think that, and you pointed it out correctly, that's not the only family that's involved. A man who is terrified of his future, and although he wasn't eventually evicted, let's say that's why he didn't have another child, let's say that he didn't move to a bigger place because he couldn't, or because of that he left his country under duress, it can also be seen from demographic data. Don't forget this, and I wish you a much more honest confrontation with this question. Thank you for your attention and opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2023-03-27-53	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. I now give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP.
u2023-03-27-54	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The bill before us is also a delayed submission and evidence, proof that Hungary does not have a responsible government. It is absolutely absurd that we are writing the end of March 2023, and if we accept it today, we will have a revised budget today, even though the reasons that justified and made it necessary to amend the budget have been with us for a long, long time. I think that there has been regulation governance in Hungary for a long time, and of course this is very good for the ruling power, and they will tell you and good day. At the same time, I think that by attempting to bypass the Parliament, the most important organ of the Hungarian people's representation, it is a kettle. [[Dr. Zsigmond Barna Pál: Here we are!]] My fellow Member says that we are here now. The fact is, Congressman, you may be here, but it is March 2023, and this debate was supposed to take place in November and December 2022, and not in March 2023. [[Dr. Zsigmond Barna Pál: We are here now.]] Nacsa Lawrence: Right now. The president's ringing. Thank you, Mr. President. At the same time, we owe it to the electorate to briefly explain how we value the amended budget. One of the most striking things is that the new budget has failed to respond to inflation; of course, apart from the fact that the government wants to put in its pocket the $1,000 billion in inflation extra profit, plus tax revenues. But speaking of inflation, I think it's very important that we say that it's not war inflation. The main cause of inflation is not the war, it is not the very sad war going on next to us, but, of course, the war also has a role in inflation, but we know precisely that the majority of inflation is driven by the economic policy of Fidesz, it is the system of price caps that pushed a great deal of inflation, and the exchange rate policy, and the fact that in their economic policy they could not increase the productivity of the companies working in Hungary. But I think it is much sadder that there is no general public service wage increase in this budget, let alone a normal wage increase, but even a wage increase following inflation. Education workers have nothing beyond the 10 percent promised already in December. This is a very harsh real wage reduction for them again this year, and I think that this is not just the case this year, and it is not only the case for last year, but our teachers, our teachers who raise our children, the grandchildren of the older age group, have been forced to take responsibility and improve their essays at night. I think that this is a slap in the face of Hungarian competitiveness only so that economists can understand it, which is totally unacceptable. I get it, we have to bring in the 320 billion-dollar aid to the Chinese battery companies, right, we had to buy Vodafone, and in such an extremely important citation sign, we had to find money for expenses instead of raising the wages of social workers to raise the wages of teachers. Although a provision of EUR 514 billion has been created, this serves to cover a lot of tasks, there is no guarantee that wage increases can take place. We can therefore conclude that the consequences of Europe's champion inflation are not being dealt with by the new budget, which is essentially a austerity policy. [[16.10]] The energy crisis, the climate and ecological crisis, the water shortage and the food crisis or the social crisis do not show any reaction to reality, as if living in an ivory tower and looking only at the opinions and interests of multi-billion-dollar investors and managers. That is why they are pleased when new foreign investments can be lured from hundreds of billions of forints, even though Hungary is already completely open and extremely vulnerable to global markets, breakaway supply chains and turbulence. The construction of the Hungarian economy has already been completely forgotten, only bringing the multinationals here at all costs remains as a goal; the real self-coating. We can now experience this every day in the case of battery production, for which there are additional resources in the revised budget, even though we are convinced that our healthy environment cannot be sold, that economic independence cannot be sold. However, there are no additional sources of domestic development, energy efficiency building renovations or water retention. I think that a few days after World Water Day, it is worth noting that we should not only protect our waters in words, but also provide resources for them in the budget. Thank you very much.
u2023-03-27-55	Thank you very much, Congressman Csárdi. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask that someone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[For signal:]] Yes, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Vajda, MSZP.
u2023-03-27-56	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, It was not mentioned in the debate before the Committee on Budgets, so I did not mention in my previous speech three circumstances that I consider important to mention in the plenary debate. The first is that at the end of February, the budget deficit reached 44% of the amount planned for the whole year. In two months there was a deficit of HUF 1525 billion in the state register, and the deficit has never been this high. The record so far was 560 billion forints in 2011. The revenue has so far been HUF 5363 billion, which is the same level as in the same period of 2022, if we correct last year's bank transfers. The state's expenditures, however, have increased severely, and it is particularly worrying to me that HUF 386 billion has been spent, I repeat, in two months, on interest expenses. This amount is 2677 billion more than in the previous year. According to this bill, the annual deficit, which is 3.9 percent of GDP, can amount to HUF 3400 billion this year. However, the first sixth of the year, almost half of the planned deficit, does not provide much good for the future. I think this is an excellent indicator of the merits of your budget. The second fact that I would like to mention to you is that according to a new quick report by Eurostat, which gives a current picture of the evolution of the per capita GDP of each EU Member State based on purchasing power, our country is now in a dead race with Portugal and Romania in this measure. I understand, of course, that differences can be shown from the meaning of the various indicators, but it is interesting how the Romanian economy has travelled far compared to the Hungarian economy over the past 12 years. Not to mention that unfortunately, the trend is clear: sooner or later, the Romanian economy will outrun Hungary. Although you and the government are always talking about another and another target date for Austria, it is quite disappointing that in a few years' time, although the debate will be about catching up, we are no longer trying to target Austria, but Romania. The third circumstance, which I would like to mention in the end, is the criticisms again by György Matolcsy, President of the MNB. On my count, the President of the Central Bank has said his thoughts three times, twice in this House, here and once in a book presentation. According to his words, there are big problems with the Hungarian budget and the economy. There are serious economic policy malpractices in the Cabinet, no targets, but there is a deficit of public finances. If one of the three members of the Fiscal Council elected by the governing parties has such clear and sharp criticism of the content of the three members, then I believe that there may indeed be serious problems. Let us not forget that the President of the MNB has access to data and expert analyses that go far beyond the information available on the market, and even what the Ministry of Finance presents to Parliament, simply because, not only in months, but also in days, the situation in the Hungarian economy can turn enormously. However, your central bank president has been ringing the alarm for months. If anything, well, it doesn't help to believe that everything's okay at home. It is one thing that it is difficult for us opposition representatives to believe this; it is much worse that investors and market players will not, and in the form of interest, ask for the price of their economic policy mistakes. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-03-27-57	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Vajda. I would like to ask that someone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Péter Benő Banai, State Secretary, who indicated earlier that he wished to respond to what was said at the end of the debate.
u2023-03-27-58	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to say that my first thought after the comments is that there is perhaps one consensus between the Members in Parliament, namely that it is appropriate to adapt this year's budget law to the changed circumstances. This is the aim, therefore, I think, that it is the same, and that debate can only come up with the right system, according to which, at the end of the spring session, the Parliament will determine the basic budgetary directions for the following year, and that if there is a need for a change later, what are the directions for changes. In fact, I would like to say that last year, a long six months ago, the Parliament decided to set the main directions for economic policy. These are the main orientations to keep 4.7 million people in employment, to preserve public health, to preserve the real value of pensions and to maintain family support. Compared to the situation six months ago, as has been said, economic conditions have fundamentally changed; not because the government merely changed its assumptions, but because all external actors have significantly modified its projections for 2023 in the middle of 2022. I quote the European Commission many times, because if someone looks at their public spring forecast and the autumn or the last winter forecast, they will see that the European Commission itself has significantly revised the growth forecasts and has also changed the inflation figures so as not to mention the other macroeconomic indicators. So my statement is that the government is doing what it does to adapt the budget to the changed circumstances in such a way that it wants to preserve the basic objectives, the four key areas of expenditure and the economic policy direction. Let me then talk about two macro-economic indicators, which have been discussed for a longer period of time, and whose changes make it appropriate to touch the budget. One is growth, the other is inflation. In terms of growth, let me quote Eurostat data. Based on Eurostat data, and I think this is the first international reference point, we see that in 2010 the Hungarian economy was at the level of 66.1 per cent of the European Union's average. The latest data is 77 percent. We have achieved this result, this growth, so that we all know what a difficult situation the government had to remedy after 2010, and a fiscal stabilisation is not generally conducive to economic growth. So the economic conditions are different now than they were six months ago, but no matter how the processes develop, in recent years we have seen the Hungarian economy perform better every year after 2013 than the average of the European Union, so the growth of the Hungarian economy was better every year. [[16.20]] In 2020, the decline in the Hungarian economy was lower than the EU average, and, yes, this year's growth is not over 4 per cent, but it is 1.5 per cent, but we hope that this economic catch-up that we have seen in recent years will also characterize the Hungarian economy this year. The other number is inflation. Mr Toroczkai quoted the period of the 1996 Bokros package and the inflation at that time. I thank you, Mr President, for bringing this up, because if we look at the Hungarian economic history data and we also see a European outlook, we can decide what periods of inflation are essentially defined by domestic factors and what are those when inflation is fundamentally imported. I would ask you to look at the inflation indicators of some countries in the European Union, the Baltic countries, where last year we saw indicators above 20 percent. I look at Professor, many, and I think that there can be no debate in the fact that, in the indicators published by Eurostat, we see a radical increase in inflation rates following the outbreak of the war, and we all know that this rise in inflation can certainly have its effects in the longer term. So my main statement is that we can see inflation rising everywhere in Europe, in the world, which is mainly linked to the increase in energy prices, and this is also the main factor in the development of Hungarian inflation. Why do I say that this is the main factor, and that the change in energy prices, if you like, will hit inflation more than elsewhere in Europe? That's because we're a country of energy. We all know the importance of energy sources in the current payment account, and therefore in the Hungarian economy, where we cannot rely on significant domestic oil and gas resources, the increase in prices of imported products is obviously more important. There are also domestic indicators, and many people have said that food prices are changing. I would also like to remind everyone that the drought was one of the highest effects in Hungary, because in Hungary the drought was much higher than in other countries of Europe; and indeed, if I have already said energy, it is due to an external factor that, because of our energy exposure, due to the euro demand, the exchange rate of the forint has changed more hectically than in many other countries, so the change in the exchange rate of the forint has also affected inflation in Hungary to a greater extent than in other countries. So what I have to say is that we need to see in the changed economic circumstances what the external processes, which are crucially linked to war and sanctions, are largely reflected in the change in economic assumptions, and this war and sanctions are found decisively, not exclusively, but decisively in the evolution of inflation. In changed circumstances, therefore, as I mentioned, the aim is to keep employment at a high level. This was not the case today, although I think it is a very high value. In 2020, during Covid, we managed to maintain a high level of employment, which remains the target in 2023. Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa talked about family support. Maintaining the real value of pensions is a key factor, and now a 15% increase has been made, but, if inflation were higher, pensioners will receive additional pension increases during the year, and ultimately, the maintenance of premiums is also a fundamental goal this year. It is no coincidence that the release of the Rezief Protection Fund has risen above HUF 2600 billion. If I have mentioned pensions and the amount of the rent of the four objectives, then Mr Zoltán Vajda can see that I am talking about two priority areas where the total amount of the 13th month pension was paid in February and I am talking about an area where the premium and payment were made. Imre Ritter also referred to this. I would therefore ask Mr President to look at the detailed figures of the budget, and the documents published show what are the items of expenditure which did not appear pro rata to time and which show the greater extent of the lack of a central budget. In addition to the four broad objectives, factors that are in line with, for example, overhead subsidies have been mentioned today. Many people have mentioned that we can talk about inflation budgets, about the state's significant extra income. I would mention the exact amount here, because many people did not well quote the VAT surplus, some HUF 834 billion is the VAT surplus, which is included in the amended budget law. I say this after the overhead subsidies because practically all the VAT revenue surplus is used to finance the protection of electricity. I repeat, the total VAT revenue surplus is financing overhead subsidies in the economic sense. More than HUF 2600 billion is issued by the Rehabilitation Fund. The revenues of this fund include special taxes, and there is a budget transfer of about HUF 1200 billion, which still needs to be added from the central budget to the Rehabilitation Fund in order to maintain the system of retail rent regulation in order to provide support to public institutions. So much for what the government will do with additional income from inflation. The four main areas are employment, family support, pensions, and subsidies, I can say that education and health are always a hit topic. Today, too, I think we may have heard some serious words. Mr Zoltán Vajda, President of the Budget Committee, has said that if I have written precisely that neither in public education nor in health do the government use any substantial additional resources to finance the two areas. Mr Ander Balázs, another minority rapporteur on the Committee on Budgets, spoke about neoliberal inhumanity. Then allow me to mention some specific numbers. Of course, we all agree that it would be good, and obviously our common goal is to increase public funding in both areas, but what I see is that this modified budget is spending HUF 232 billion more on health than in 2022 and HUF 619 billion more on education. Let me say numbers compared to 2010, because we are often called upon to see that these two areas of economic policy have not always received the necessary attention. Education expenditures can be higher by HUF 619 billion in 2023 than HUF 1445 billion in 2010. In terms of health expenses, the sum of less than HUF 1200 billion will be slightly higher than HUF 1600 billion. [[Sic!]] Sorry, the increase in education compared to 2010 is not HUF 618, but HUF 1360 billion. We can see an increase in inflation in both areas. Within this area, wage-related expenditure is increasing even more. I mention a number in health care: health wage expenditure will be 303 percent higher than in 2010 in 2023. So we are talking about two areas where total expenditure is increasing and wage expenditure is increasing. I repeat, of course, we are working to increase this process in the future, but I cannot agree with the findings that the amendment before you would not contain additional resources. As far as neoliberal inhumanity is concerned, let me tell you that wages have increased in both areas during the fall under Covid. I can therefore hear the comments from the very benches who know precisely that in 2008-2009, at the time of the previous economic downturn, we were talking about a reduction in wages. Wages have now increased in both sectors during economic downturns, and we are working to continue this. [[Dr. Gurmai Zita's intervention:]] I hear the phrase "real pay," and I commend it to Mrs. Congresswoman, for example, in the area of health, even if professor is shaking his head, please, Professor, to look at the facts, whether real wages have increased or not, to talk to health worker acquaintances. [[16.30]] In the area of education, I would like to stress that the amendment that we can close open education issues with the European Commission is still open to public view, and that if we reach agreement with social partners and as a result we can use European Union funds for Hungary, the wages of teachers in public education in 2025 could reach 80% of the average rate of that degree in the framework of a multi-stage increase. As of 1 January, a 10 percent increase in both public education and vocational training has already been made, and I repeat: I trust that we will receive the funds dedicated to Hungary, and that further wage increases in the public education area can be made retroactively by January. Let me mention one more area: this is the area of pensioners, because it is among the four priorities. In terms of inflation and in terms of budgetary priorities, it has often been said that the correction according to inflation will be granted to pensioners. I repeat this once again because there is considerable uncertainty about price changes, which is why it is essential that in November, taking into account not only the general consumer baskets, price indices, but also the consumer basket of pensioners, if necessary, the additional pension increase will be implemented by the government. This will preserve the real surplus that we have seen since 2010, namely that, as a result of the increases so far, the real value of pensions is now about 20 percent higher than in 2010. In addition, I am confident that the funding of the priority areas, which we have just mentioned, will be able to ensure that the Hungarian economy will remain on the path of growth, even if this growth is more modest than we have seen in recent years. I trust, and the bill before you, serves the purpose of ensuring the financing of priority areas by reducing the lack of public finances and reducing debt. If this goal is achieved, we can build on stable public finances in the longer term, build on the fact that, in the longer term, increasing inflation will not take away all the revenues that the expansion of the Hungarian economy means for the budget. In view of this, I recommend to the honourable Parliament the consideration and subsequent support of the proposal before you. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-27-59	Thank you very much for closing the debate with Mr Péter Banai Benő Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, The decision on the draft amending amendment will take place today. Dear Parliament, The discussion of the Commission's reports on the publication of the Protocol on the accession of the Republic of Finland to the North Atlantic Treaty follows. Government referral T/637. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I understand that the rapporteur indicated that he wanted to speak before the debate, so I give the floor to Mr Tamás Menczer, State Secretary.
u2023-03-27-60	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The purpose of this bill is to ratify and publish the Protocol on the accession of the Republic of Finland to the North Atlantic Treaty. Allow me to briefly review the most important stages of the accession process so far. On 29 July 2022, the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, NATO, decided to invite Finland and Sweden to open negotiations on accession to the North Atlantic Treaty at the Madrid Summit of Heads of State and Government. Any decision on membership will be made between the thirty allies and the applicant countries. Following the successful conclusion of accession negotiations, the current States Parties to NATO have drawn up Protocols of Accession for Finland in accordance with the practice and procedure established in the Alliance, which include the consensus decision of the current Member States on the invitation of the country. On 5 July 2022, the Member States of the North Atlantic Council signed the Protocols on the accession of the Republic of Finland to the Treaty and as a result the process of ratification of the Protocols could begin in NATO Member States. Following the ratification of the Protocol of Accession by all the current Member States, the NATO Secretary-General invites the candidate State to join the North Atlantic Treaty in the form of a letter. The instrument of ratification of the Protocol or other document required under its own Constitution and internal legal order of the new Member State shall then be deposited with the Government of the depositary State, i.e. the United States of America. In this way, the invited State, in this case Finland, becomes a full member of NATO. The Hungarian Government supports the proposed bill, thereby extending NATO to the north. Dear House, Finland's partnership with the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation dates back to nearly thirty years. Since 1995, it has maintained a close partnership with NATO, participates in a number of bilateral and multilateral cooperation programmes and has contributed significantly and contributes to the success of NATO-led peace support operations. Finland joined the, with a partnership for peace in 1995, and from 1997 to participate in the Euro-Atlantic Partnership Council with a view to promoting practical cooperation, political and security dialogue and building confidence with the Alliance and partner countries, and, since the 1990s, Finland has gradually increased military cooperation with NATO. By participating in the operations and missions led by the Alliance, the Finnish armed forces have taken over and adapted to NATO standards, resulting in the Finnish army being able to fully cooperate with the Alliance today. Since 2013, Finland has also participated in NATO collective defence practices as a partner country. The alliance is expanding with a country that meets the requirements of NATO accession in all respects and has strong armed forces capable of cooperating with the armies of NATO Member States and shares the values of NATO Member States. In view of this, I ask this House to adopt the bill that has been tabled. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-27-61	Thank you very much for the speech by Mr Tamás Men-czer, State Secretary. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that he will have 11 minutes and 20 seconds for his further comments in the debate and the closing word. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Committee on Foreign Affairs. The speeches will now take place in the time frame on the agenda shown on the display. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Mr. President Novak, representative of our country.
u2023-03-27-62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The Mi Hazank Movement initiated the postponement of the parliamentary vote of NATO enlargement, another step towards the World War, encouraging national consultation on the matter, which would turn its back on the will of Hungarian society by drifting with war madness according to international expectations. We have 1340 kilometers of argument. Unfortunately, the Hungarian veto of NATO enlargement is now being promoted as the sole party by Mi Hazan, because the expansion of the military alliance on Russia's border would be a provocation, while the neutral zone is an international interest. It would be a grave mistake to pour oil on the fire of war. There is also a civil referendum initiative before the National Election Committee to support the enlargement of NATO, so it would have been worth waiting for the vote, thus supporting our initiative to amend the agenda, which was voted down with Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[16.40]] As far as national consultation is concerned, it is certainly more of a primitive government propaganda, but it is time for a social dialogue and real consideration. The Hungarians decided: 97 percent did not decide on sanctions. It says on the billboards of giants, yet Viktor Orbán supports it in order, at least he does not veto it there, of course, there is no official vote in Brussels. So, unfortunately, Hungary is also assisting in serving American interests in the face of the shaming government propaganda. Peace, neutrality, independence should be one of the most important values. Is the Hungarian government willing to take the Hungarian veto of NATO expansion in order to avoid World War II? That's what I asked you in September, but then the answer was just bullshit. Now, unfortunately, the Orbán government has joined the international ranks, according to the expectations of the Hungarian Balliberal opposition. We have no problem with Sweden and Finland, but it is also in their interest not to widen the war conflict by joining NATO right now. Europe's peace and fragile balance are ensured if Russia and NATO are not or at least less bordering each other, because there is a militaryly neutral or so-called buffer zone. So far, Sweden and Finland have played this role in the North and Ukraine in Central and Eastern Europe. Over the past year, we have seen that the attempt to violate this buffer zone, i.e. to globalise Ukraine, to integrate it into the Western Federal System, is automatically followed by a harsh reaction from the other party. It is therefore essential that, in this situation, Russia's neighbourhood, at least Finland and Sweden, and even Ukraine, and the other former Soviet republics, be militaryly neutral in order to prevent and avoid the expansion of the conflict into World War II. The vote on NATO enlargement was also proposed to be postponed because we would first like to have answers to our written questions, even now, in the absence of our written questions, to which the Minister of Defence has refused to answer so far. How much do our NATO roles cost, such as the occupation in Afghanistan that ended in a nasty fall? How many Hungarian soldiers have been sent to serve foreign countries around the world? Instead of encrypting, we need meaningful answers, and instead of serving the new world order, we need our independence, our neutrality, thereby promoting peace. It was a public outrage that the Hungarian government kept it secret and we had to learn from the Slovak Minister of Defence that Hungary was also involved in training Ukrainian soldiers and health professionals. The commander of the Hungarian Defence Forces visited the Ukrainian Joint Chiefs of Staff in secret this summer, and we learned about it only afterwards, from Ukrainian news. At that time, the Head of the Ukrainian Armed Forces stated that he was satisfied with the level of military cooperation between Ukraine and Hungary. What does he know that the Hungarian government doesn't want us to know? They have also undertaken to secure the Baltic airspace with Hungarian Gripens, and have also been in conflict with Russian fighters. And www.ma7.sk wrote that the consultation between the Hungarian and Slovak defence ministers was successful, and soon Hungarian Gripens will be protected in Slovakia's airspace as well. Why do they undertake this, which is the indirect support of the US-Russian conflict in Ukraine? Slovakia also transferred the MiG-29s, which form the backbone of the Slovak air force to Ukraine, thanks to Hungarian support. In addition to training Ukrainian soldiers, what has been hidden so far, or at least didn't appear in news, to help Ukraine? For example, did we give fuel for money, and if so, when, how much, at what cost? I've already asked the Prime Minister these questions, but he hasn't answered them as much as his defense minister has. I would like to draw your attention to the importance of the historic responsibility of Members, because it is possible that Europe, or perhaps the future of all mankind, is in our hands now. With this in mind, think of your own families, loved ones, and say no to the further spread of the war conflict. The veto is now an opportunity for our nation to become messengers of peace, so let us reenter mankind's history. According to the Hungarian Movement, it is therefore time for Hungary, with the veto of NATO expansion, to finally take action against the expansion of war. We really don't want a world war. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-03-27-63	Thank you very much, Congressman President Novak. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Agnes Vadai, representative of DK.
u2023-03-27-64	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Finland is our friend. Hungary has a special relationship with this country. He is our partner in Europe, and I very much hope that he will soon be our ally in NATO. Mr Secretary of State's speech is very factual, emotionless, I could say that it was correct, but it was a little late, as he said, in the sense that last July the decision was made in Madrid to invite the two countries, Finland and Sweden to NATO to become full members. It has been almost nine months since then, and we have never received arguments from you as to why the length of the ratification date for the Finnish accession took so long. One eye cries and the other laughs, because I am glad that we can at least deal with the issue of Finland, and that we can ratify the accession of Finland to NATO, but I have to knock on the door, to be honest, because my confidence is careful of you, but perhaps on our side, on the Hungarian Parliament's side, at 6:00 today, when the vote starts, it will happen. And I am glad, because Finland, along with Sweden, has been a partner of Hungary for a long time, also on defence issues. I would like to mention to you that it was Finland and Sweden, in addition to NATO countries, that joined the previous government in developing this common capacity in terms of difficult air transport capabilities. But if we talk about how our soldiers participated in the various missions with these two countries, how they worked together, I can safely say and say that we are familiar with the military capabilities and opportunities of Finland and, of course, Sweden. So I'm glad we made it this far. It's been a long process. I think we have also discussed it clearly in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, at least I have told you that I think that the part you have represented in this is unnecessary. This speech could have been given in this Parliament after the Madrid meeting. Because of course we have feelings for the two countries, I assume that we have European allies' feelings and not our personal feelings. Hungary will win with Finland's NATO membership, and I add that with Sweden's NATO membership as well. NATO, the strongest defence alliance in the world, will only be stronger by Finland and we hope that Sweden will join NATO as soon as possible. It was a long way to go, and we didn't really see any arguments. But maybe it doesn't matter now, because at least we're in the finish line, and if everything's true, we'll start voting in a little over an hour. However, we cannot go away from the damage that this process, which you have done, has done not to Finland and Sweden, but to Hungary. There was no NATO parliamentary assembly meeting, there was no international discussion where the question of the accession of Sweden and Finland to NATO was not raised. And every time, by the way, absolutely rightfully, our partners, our NATO partners, with whom we work, in order to guarantee the safety of Hungarians, asked why this delay, what is the specific reason, what are the points where Finland, and I add, Sweden, does not meet the criteria with which they could become a full member of NATO. We have never heard anything like this, and we have not heard it because these two countries meet the criteria for NATO membership in all respects. All we heard was who had personal grief against Finnish and Swedish politicians. It may have been Congressman Nacsa, but I may be wrong, and it was Mrs Hajnalka Juhász who gave a specific, long list of criticisms formulated by Finnish politicians and which were also formulated by Swedish politicians. My fellow Members, these were personal insults. Personal insults! The politicians of Finland and Sweden have never, ever offended the Hungarian people. Not once! I believe that criticism of your governance has been raised, but I have never heard from Finnish or Swedish politicians personally that they have criticism of the Hungarian people. The Hungarian people are respected, as we respect the Finnish and Swedish people mutually. The difference is that governments in Finland and Sweden do not identify themselves with the people. [[16.50]] These personal feelings have influenced you, and that's because the issue of home security is not a matter of personal resentment, nor can it be a matter of personal resentment. Finland's accession and we hope that soon Sweden will also strengthen Hungary's security, the security of Hungarian citizens. You can't miss this opportunity, and you can't lose that responsibility any longer. Therefore, I would like to ask my fellow Members today to support the ratification of Finland's accession to NATO, which is obviously still lacking in a Member State, but we hope that this step will be taken soon, and please do everything possible to ensure that the Hungarian Parliament then ratifys Sweden's accession as soon as possible. With the accession of these two countries, our alliance will be much, much stronger, not only in the military sense, but also in the sense of solidarity, in the economic sense, and which is very important, in a democratic sense; and this is very important. NATO is a democratic defence community, even if, by the way, your government sometimes tries to take steps that do not point in this direction. I can tell you that the shadow government of the Democratic Coalition and Klára Dobrev naturally supports the ratification of Finland's accession to NATO and, of course, we support and ask for Sweden's accession to NATO to be on the agenda as soon as possible. We would like to ask you to consider what historical responsibility you have if you continue to drag on ratification of Sweden's accession, what further damage you will cause Hungary. The Orbán government forgive me for saying this is irrelevant, it doesn't matter. But Hungary, Hungary's authority in NATO, our ally loyalty and commitment: this is what you have put at risk and put at risk in recent months. We welcome the fact that these two countries are joining NATO. We very much hope that all the necessary decisions will be made to Vilnius, and then a year after the historic summit in Madrid, because in all respects this summit was historic, we will arrive at another historic milestone by saying that two countries that have always built on neutrality, giving up their neutrality, decide to strengthen NATO, the world's strongest democratic defence alliance. It's good for everyone. This is good for Sweden, Finland, this is good for Hungary, it is good for the Finnish people, it will be good for the Swedish people and, of course, it will be good for the citizens of Hungary. Remember, we have a shared responsibility. NATO is a very important organization. It's even more important to be a part of political games here. Please understand: this is not something to play with, this is security, this is the safety of all of us. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2023-03-27-65	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Ágnes Vadai. I give the floor to Congressman Bertalan Tóth, representative of the MSZP.
u2023-03-27-66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I can only confirm what I said in my speech before the agenda that the Hungarian Socialist Party welcomes the fact that after eight months we have reached the point that after the Finnish-Swedish NATO accession request, which was supported at the summit in Madrid, the Hungarian Parliament will at least now ratify the Finnish accession intention. The emphasis is on the eight-month period and on the fidesz attitude that my fellow Member of Vada mentioned in the past, which is very shameful and showed a very frivolous attitude in the seriousness of the matter. Indeed, given the travel of the four-person delegation to Canossa in the two EU Member States, a lot has come to mind, but let's say that the geopolitical significance of NATO expansion or the explicit national interest of Hungary in connection with accession is not. I have to say to you that in recent months, I personally have been ashamed, as a politician and as a Hungarian citizen, of the fact that the Government of Hungary has behaved in this way on such a deadlyly important issue. But that is not what I would like to talk about, but the argument that you have added to this attitude. Here, the first reason was that the Hungarian Parliament had to adopt all sorts of extremely important legislation so incredibly occupied, because of the war emergency, that the vote on the two candidates for accession and ratification did not fit on the agenda. Then this justification took a turn, and there it was discussed how the two candidate states thought about the government in Hungary, its policy, the rule of law in Hungary, corruption, and so on; and they were particularly offended by the sentences that criticized, for example, the Finnish and Swedish taxpayers' money was being transferred to Lőrinc Mészáros, and the Prime Minister's son-in-law and environment. I'm sure this must have been very bad for you, but we consider this to be a finding, because we live in this everyday life. But I would reverse that argument. I was quick to find out on the Internet; I'm not very good at fighting, although I'm obviously following the news, but I looked on the Internet to see what Sweden and Finland actually add to NATO forces and NATO alliances if they join. It is said that the forces of the two northern states are smaller, but extremely powerful and extremely well equipped. In Sweden, the army has already exceeded 50,000, with nearly 270 thousand mobilizable reserveers, with nearly 300 tanks and 116 Gripen aircraft. In Finland, the army has already exceeded 30,000, nearly 230 thousand reserve vehicles, over 300 tanks, and there is more than 60 combat aircraft, if what I read is true. So, in fact, these two Member States, by joining NATO, undertake to assist and defend the NATO Member State if any NATO Member State is attacked. So two countries with such forces have undertaken to abandon their neutrality, obviously in addition to increasing their own security, but if Hungary were to be attacked by any kind of attack, these two States would be available to defend Hungary, despite the fact that the rule of law in Hungary is constantly being broken down; despite the fact that the independence of the judiciary is being lifted in front of us right now, therefore there will be no EU aid; despite the fact that the Swedish and Finnish taxpayers' money has disappeared hand in hand over time, and this is also one of the reasons why we do not have access to EU funds. However, these two states would join an alliance that, if Hungary were to be in trouble, it would be protected. We should be pleased with this development, we should be glad that the military alliance in which we joined, and in which Gyula Horn, which you have criticized a great deal, has done a great deal to make us part of this alliance, to be one of the main guarantees of Hungary's security, to be NATO Member States, that this is expanding, we should have been pleased, and we should have done everything we can to support the accession of the two countries to NATO, because this is in Hungary's national interest. Mr Secretary of State's speech today is not in a thank-you way compared to his reply to my speech before today's agenda. I don't know what happened. My runaway comment probably pissed off Mr. Secretary of State. That was my intention, by the way; because I wanted to demonstrate that, compared to a question of this magnitude, which you have done and are doing now that you have separated the vote on the accession of the two countries, it shows that you are not taking seriously what is going on around us. The MSZP will support Finland's accession to NATO. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]] [[17.00]]
u2023-03-27-67	Thank you very much, Congressman Bertalan Tóth. The next speaker is Congressman Brenner Koloman, Jobbik.
u2023-03-27-68	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Europe is our security, because Europe and NATO ensure the security of Hungarian citizens and peace. The opinion of the Jobbik-Conservatives in this case was clear from the outset: the reason why the NATO accession of both countries, Finland and Sweden, must be ratified by the Hungarian Parliament as a matter of urgency, is because it is the Hungarian national interest. The sad game that has happened since the Hungarian delegation promised last summer to our Finnish and Swedish friends that they would immediately ratify the NATO accession of both countries in the autumn would be translated by the Hungarian Parliament: you did not tell the truth; you did not tell the truth! Since then, this process has been taking place, which is a serious violation of the fact that our country's national capacity for enforcement has been reduced, as there has been very serious damage to our country's international judgment in this process. As Conservative Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I will follow our Finnish and Swedish friends once again, because it is unworthy of the procedure that the Fidesz one-party overpower in this matter is not known for what reason, and it is only possible to suspect that Putin was playing in this process for the reasons dictated by him. By the way, Putin. Let us not forget that on 17 December 2021, Russian President Putin sent a memorandum to NATO and the United States of America demanding NATO to withdraw to the 1997 borders. So, not just the peace and security of Hungarian citizens, but the entire region of Central and Eastern Europe, the region where, during the first circular reorganization of the post-45 world order, we finally managed to eliminate the Soviet-Russian occupation in 1989-90, and our country, together with the rest of the states, set off for a balanced civilian development. So, in practice, in such a world-historical situation, you, after the lewdness of the Fidesz government and its diplomaticly serious damage, we are finally voting for Finland's accession today. But why not vote today, as the Committee on Foreign Affairs voted for Sweden's accession to NATO at the same meeting? Very simply because you seem to be seeking Hungarian national sovereignty in Turkey; now, it seems, you are joining the Sultan in this great war of freedom. There's been such a thing in history before, by the way, I'd just like to signal it. I think that this is a very transparent story, that at the moment when Turkey gives the green light for accession to Finnish NATO, we are going to vote on it today after all these months. Great. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: NATO Alliance...]] In the meantime, as Sweden is still under negotiation with regard to Turkey, you are still stalling for a little while, putting the Hungarian national interest to shame. I am asking you seriously, my fellow Members: what is the Hungarian national interest in this, besides the fact that you believe that you have been able to give yourself any leeway in any way, let us say, in other matters, for example, with regard to European Union resources? Now, this is the real, very serious threat to our country's national interest that you have connected things like, say, extremist liberal politicians sometimes said steep sentences about your politics or our country. Some of these were true, others were not true; I always said that. At the same time, linking this with the national interest of our country, with two states such as Finland and Sweden... More specifically, Finland has won a very serious war against the Soviet-Russian troops. The Secretary of State has spoken very highly of the military performance of Sweden and Finland, and I will not repeat that, and that is true. Now, compared to this, the Fidesz government has shown itself to be an unreliable NATO ally, and every Hungarian citizen who has participated in any forum at international level has felt that it is negative. So you must also immediately ratify Sweden's accession to NATO. And that we have finally finished this sad game with regard to Finland today, I very much welcome this on behalf of the Jobbik-Conservatives. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2023-03-27-69	Thank you very much, Congressman Brenner Koloman. I now give the floor to Congressman Kristóf Tompos, representative of Momentum.
u2023-03-27-70	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying that I have to argue a little with our fellow Member of Vada. Nothing serious, but we actually got a reason why the pro-government majority wouldn't vote for this. At first, it was said that he couldn't fit the pace, so he said. Obviously, the catalog was killed in 48 hours, but it didn't fit. Then it was said that there was still consultation, Brussels expects that such great steps should be consulted, and therefore there was a social consultation, which looked like anyone could go up to kormany.hu, look up the appropriate material among the documents, download that paper, and there was a sentence to write to this e-mail address. Now, that was your consultation. Then it turned out to be good, but that's not the case, because of the criticisms, we can't ratify it, because what the Swedes and the Finns said to us, so we have to send a delegation, but it won't affect that. Then it turned out that he was going to influence it, at least not the Swedes, not the Finns. Let's just say there is a bit of chaos, but I think that is the most important issue here, and my fellow opposition Members did not ask what that felt like. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, How does it feel to have the boss say something, and then, in order not to lose his face, he's gonna make you take the fall? Because it's supposed to be thanks to you, your resistance, that now the Swedes are not being ratified by Parliament. How does it feel? How does it feel to have a nettle... don't let me finish? You know, it's the same feeling for teachers; it's the same feeling for fired soldiers; it's the same feeling for fired mailmen; it's the same feeling for doctors forced into the on-call system. I'm really, really sorry, but I'm really sorry that you had to stir up a diplomatic scandal in order to finally feel what you're doing to this country. I'm sorry. [[Applause from the benches of Momentum.]]
u2023-03-27-71	Thank you very much, Congressman Márton Tompos. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2023-03-27-72	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, After the great words of Márton Tompos, I would like to ask where the Momentum was during the general debate on NATO accession. [[Kristóf Mártos Mártos intervenes.]] You did not take the trouble of discussing geopolitical, defence, military and security issues at your own workplace on such an important issue as the accession of Swedish and Finnish NATO, because these are all aspects of this issue, which we have talked about for many hours, you have not bothered to come to your workplace or to send a man from the faction to argue, fellow Members. After that, he comes here and lectures us in a big voice when he does not bother to show up at his own workplace during the day on weekdays and participate in the debate on such an important issue? ! I find it rather pathetic, Your Honour, but this is your conscience and your working time, and you will account for it to whoever needs it. I would like to say to Mrs Vadai that I would like to live to see that you will talk about Hungary as enthusiasticly as you have just done about Sweden and Finland. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Are you questioning my love for my country? Really? Is that where we're at?]] I would be so pleased if, once, you spoke of Hungary with such enthusiasm and love as the honourable Member spoke of other countries. I think it would be important if we got here. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I love my country more than you do.]] [[17.10]] Hungary is a good NATO alliance. Hungary is interested in maintaining, strengthening and expanding NATO. That is why we support the accession of Finland to NATO, which is why we will vote today for the accession of Finland to NATO, which is why we have already supported the accession of Finland to NATO, honourable Members. This is what we are debating here, we are on the final debate, we are one hour away from the date of the vote. That is why we will support it, and that is why we are pleased that NATO is strengthening and expanding. We are generally in favour of the enlargement process in both the European Union and NATO. We believe that a community will not be weaker, but stronger if it can include others among its members. We believe that a community is not weakened by adopting new Member States, but by strengthening them. This is why, for example, we are confused about the slowness and delay of the European Union in the context of the Euroatlantic integration of the Western Balkans. This is why we are confused when the European Union has been promising, for example, to Serbs for many years or decades, but not to others, because a community, if there are more people in it, if we are stronger in it, is good for the community. It is therefore important to put the interests of the community in an appropriate place. And that is why we are interested in maintaining, strengthening and expanding NATO, because Hungary is a good NATO alliance. The role of Hungarian soldiers in NATO missions, even if the President Novák continues to make a ignominious voice [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I agree with that.]] [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I agree with that.]] still the Hungarian soldiers perform the NATO role with the highest professionalism (Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I agree!) And they always get the highest words of praise from our NATO allies. And when Brenner Koloman, a representative of the JK, says that the Turks are like, [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: JK?]] And the Turks are like that, so we're gonna ask the question, are you gonna try to make fun of the Turks here, that there's a good ally and a bad ally? Turkey is our NATO ally, fellow Members. When you regularly make such big comments, Turkey is our NATO ally, NATO Member State, a large Member State, and our NATO ally, and yes, we have promised, and we keep this promise that it will not be up to us on this issue, and we will not be the last. It is also the process of accession that, if the ratification process is completed in all countries, the Secretary-General invites the leaders of the two future Member States to the next summit, which will otherwise be held in Vilnius in summer, to invite Finland and Sweden to join NATO. We're talking about Finland. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is going to happen in the summer, and it is right that if this happens, this will happen in the summer. And we would like to vote on this today precisely because we support that this alliance, which is a defence alliance, not an attacking alliance, but a defence military alliance, will be further strengthened, because NATO has further strengthened with Hungary's inclusion, and Hungary will also add its own contribution, many times above the power in the federal system, many times above the force, honourable Members, let us not forget this too. For example, Hungary, we hope this year will reach the 2 percent of NATO's expected defence expenditure in terms of GDP [[Intercoms from opposition lines.]] Among the defence expenditures that many countries, much richer than us, will not achieve even this year, and even next year, is the case, honourable Members. And how good it is that a good part of this is also going to be developed, my honourable fellow Members, and in this respect the Hungarian army, the Hungarian Defence Forces, is constantly increasing its ability and strength. We only raised our defense budget by 50 percent compared to last year. An hour ago, we completed the debate on the amendment of the budget, and there, too, we raised the defence budget by 50 percent during a crisis period, in times of danger, from 2022 to 2023. We are good allies, we are a good NATO Member State. Of course, we would like NATO to remain a defense alliance, not an attacking alliance, but, thank God, this proposal is not on the agenda, only a siren voice from a country or two, but, thank God, NATO leadership is calm, NATO leadership is on the ground of common sense, and from now on, the whole war conflict is based on common sense. I would like to ask my fellow Members, in this debate, not to sound the continuous horse-zungs and lies, as Bertalan Tóth did, or Brenner Koloman did, but, as we have said in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, in the delegation of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, we support this issue, and so do you. And what Mrs Vadi said was that we were there at the last NATO Parliamentary Assembly plenary session, where, with the help of my fellow Member, Mr Barna Zsigmond, Head of Delegation, we also met with the members of the Swedish delegation, members of the Finnish delegation, and delegation leaders in good spirits, honourable Member. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] We were talking about precisely the cooperation that we are talking about, Finland, the cooperation that we are talking about now that we are going to be there together in another federal system, Finland is a member of the European Union and, as our European ally, and now we are going to be allies in NATO, then we can obviously say to them that we welcome them to the club, simplifying or Pestically speaking, we say that we should also start the cooperation in the new federal system that guarantees the security of Europe and thus also of the Hungarian people in it. We therefore support Finland's accession to NATO, which is why we will vote today. I don't know if you've been looking at your office e-mail accounts this weekend, you've received countless Finnish e-mails from your representatives, and we've received countless letters from Finnish citizens, even from Finnish representatives. [[An intervention in the ranks of the Momentum. Depreciation in opposition ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] I tell you, and then they press a button, and then they respond to it, and we read the Finnish citizen's doubts. We can say that, unfortunately, this is too late, because we have decided to support this, and I hope that you will do the same, because NATO, the Finns, can count on us in the process of enlargement, in the process of ratification, which is why Fidesz-KDNP will support the accession to Finland today. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-03-27-73	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Sigismund, Fidesz.
u2023-03-27-74	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This debate is very important, even if my fellow opposition Members, some of them at least, are trying to make a joke out of it. So what is this debate about today? It is about Finland joining the most important Euroatlantic Defence Alliance and Hungary supports Finland's accession. What is NATO? So let us say a few words about NATO, because it really seems that you do not understand exactly what this joint Euroatlantic defence alliance means. Let us recall that after the change of regime, after the Warsaw Alliance ceased to exist, there was a national consensus that Hungary should join NATO, and we joined in 1999, it was a great national success, and since then Hungary has been a reliable partner of NATO. If we look at the history of NATO over the past 30 years, we can see that the performance was fluctuating. For our part, we have always done everything we can, and we have been in over our heads in every mission, but there has been a lot of criticism on the part of the large Member States about exactly where NATO is headed. Let us recall that there were serious debates about a joint European defence alliance alongside NATO. In this situation, it reached Europe, NATO, the whole world of Russian aggression, and then everyone realized how important NATO is and how good it is that NATO is and how much it is needed in this security situation. It has given rise, if you will, to NATO after Russian aggression, and the European and Euroatlantic allies together have stood up against Russian aggression and supported Ukraine. In this spirit we reached the period from 28 to 30 June 2022, on 30th we reached the formulation of the new strategic concept. At the summit in Madrid, NATO's new strategic concept was born. I would like to list a few elements of this principle. This new strategic concept has established that Russia is the number one and most direct threat, terrorism is the most serious non-state threat. For the first time in NATO's history, the strategic concept deals with the security challenges posed by China's rise; it uses the word. There are other priority areas in the concept: challenges from the southern strategic direction, illegal migration, cyber and hybrid threats, collective and national resilience, concept of resilience, innovation, climate change, cooperative security, partnerships. So NATO, as you say, tries to respond to these challenges with an approach of 360 degrees. [[17.20]] It is also about a new deterrent and defence arrangement, it is proposing a new force structure, so it calls for a comprehensive reform in all Member States and it is launching Ukraine's long-term support within the framework of a comprehensive assistance package. One of the most important elements of this strategic concept is that Finland and Sweden are invited to join the alliance, and that is why we are here today because there is consensus on Finland and Sweden's accession, and we support it for our part. This is a holiday and I would also like to welcome Ambassador Pertti Antinen, Ambassador of Finland, who is here with us and with whom we have an excellent relationship. I would also like to say that we are working on the same values with our Finnish allies, that the Member States in NATO are working together on the same values, and that it is a major contribution to NATO's defence capability in view of Finland's accession, especially in view of the security challenges posed by the far north. Allow me to respond on a few points to opposition and left-wing arguments. In the case of our country, I think they are acting against national interests when they say that we should quit NATO. This is a geopolitical nihilism, in my opinion, and action against Hungarian national interests, in addition to the fact that we do not want war and no one wants war; we may agree on that. I agree with Ágnes Vadai on a lot of things that he said about NATO; however, we cannot talk about insult only when we are talking about Finnish and Swedish politicians, but in many cases Finnish and Swedish politicians have prevented our legitimate European Union funds, so this must also be highlighted, and it should also be said that this is not just an insult or a debate at all. With regard to MSZP: I see that your MSZP colleague has left. He was talking about corruption here; I do not know how he came up with corruption in connection with NATO, but if there is corruption somewhere in the European Parliament, it is certain that there is corruption, not just any corruption; it is not small, but large. Let us also recall the two-faced policy that the European Union, the European Parliament, is pursuing with regard to the declaration of assets. Unfortunately, regarding Jobbik, our fellow Member Brenner Koloman JK is no longer here. Well, perhaps I should remind him that in 2010, President Gyöngyösi, President of the JK, called Russia a strategic partner, and in 2014 the President of the JK supported the Luhansk and Donetsk referendums. So, so much for Jobbik's credibility, if the word "Deputy" is still applicable to Jobbik. The Fidesz fraction supports Finland's accession to NATO. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-03-27-75	Thank you very much, Congressman Zsigmond Barna Pál. Next speaker is Congressman Béla Turi-Kovács, Fidesz.
u2023-03-27-76	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll be very brief. Let us conclude: the Fidesz government, the Fidesz parliamentary majority, supports the accession of both Sweden and Finland to NATO, let us add, after careful consideration. It is this thorough consideration that is completely lacking by the opposition. I'm confused about self-destruction, which basically didn't even consider whether this kind of connection was just benefits or new risks. A number of historical examples can be set when we did not form an alliance when we were an integral part of the Monarchy, because it would have meant an increase in danger, and the potential benefits did not at least equalize each other. It is the duty of the State to ensure that the sources of danger do not increase. It is a matter, honourable House, that when a force joins an alliance, that power also has its own particular interests, and these particular interests must not conflict with the interests of Hungary. This is to be considered, and to object to the fact that this consideration has been made, we are doing it, it is completely unreasonable. It is obvious that Turkey does not oppose the accession of Sweden because there are all kinds of rebel forces there, but because it wants to avoid any further conflicts with the Russian Empire. He has historical experience, and Turkey has lost all wars except one, except for the Crimean war, he has come out of every war as a loser; he weighs. That's not what we're considering. We had to consider increasing our defenses, not growing or falling? After all, we had to come to the belief that our defences would increase with the military force that is there, with the assumption that we will continue to maintain that NATO is a defence force. Anyone who thinks contrary to that and thinks that the increased force can be some kind of offensive force, I must say, is not thinking for the good of the country. Dear House, I believe that this debate can be concluded in this sense. Clearly, clearly; if the majority chooses that it is in the country's interest to carry out this kind of enlargement, then there is no point in pursuing an offensive campaign against the government that we are now witnessing. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-03-27-77	Thank you very much, Congressman Béla Turi-Kovács. I would like to ask that someone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Tamás Menczer, State Secretary, in 11 minutes and 20 seconds.
u2023-03-27-78	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much for the comments; I have noted that President Novák, Ágnes Vadai, Bertalan Tóth, Congresswoman Brenner Koloman and Márton Tompos have spoken to the debate. I am pleased to see that the two of you, Mr President Novák and Mr Tompos, are honoured to remain here until the end of the debate, and the others are obviously busy; although I was aware and I have concluded from what they have said that this issue is important to them. However, if I may, Mr President, I would like to reply briefly to all Members. I would say to Mr Novak's speech that there should be no misunderstanding, and I do not say that what you have said is not a matter of serious concern and not of consideration, especially on such a serious issue, especially when there is a war in our neighbourhood. What I can tell you is that these issues have been considered by politicians with the involvement of military experts, and in the end, Finnish accession has been considered eligible. As for the Third World War and the war threat at all, I share what you have said in terms of the fact that, unfortunately, the Third World War has never been as close as it is now, and the threat of nuclear escalation has never been as close as it is now. I see the basis for this problem in the fact that the pro-peace people in Europe and across the ocean are minority; not at global level, we have a clear experience in our day-to-day work that the pro-peace people are in the majority, but here in Europe and across the ocean, the pro-war people are in the majority. What I can tell you is that as long as this country is run by the Orbán government, we will certainly not drift into this war, and we will do everything in our strength and size to bring this war to an end with ceasefire, peace negotiations and peace as soon as possible. With regard to Mrs Vadai, I am also a little embarrassed because she complimented me, and I was not prepared to do so, I must admit. He said that my first speech could be considered fair, and that it embarrassed me, surprised me. I do not enter DK; I see that there are such fishing activities, but there will be no success here, and this must be tried by the other parties. [[17 .30]] But to get to the point and seriously speaking, the Member said that she had not received any arguments as to what had happened in the past and why the Finnish accession had not been supported so far, and that she had taken the idea there, and that is where I think it is at the root of who has been offended. And according to the congresswoman, the Finns and the Swedes, when they made false allegations about Hungary, violated the government and the pro-government politicians and representatives, but this is a mistake. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] I would like to draw the congresswoman's attention to this, if you would have honored me with your presence, this is a mistake for two reasons. On the one hand, because we are trained in Ágnes Vadai, so it is not so easy to offend us, a Finnish or a Swedish can not offend us, because we are trained; but more importantly, it is that clear political attacks, political attacking sentences, untrue sentences from the mouths of Finnish and Swedish politicians, that they were concerned with migration and attacked by Hungarian migration policy; that they were attacking Hungarian gender, LGBTQ policy; that was that our position on the war was attacked, and that when they attacked and lied about Hungary, the Hungarian people's decision was attacked and the Hungarian people's decision was not respected, therefore, by continuing to violate the Hungarian people, because the Hungarian people made clear decisions on migration, gender, war, and supported and supported the government and the government parties. So when they lie about us, they do not respect the decision and will of the Hungarian people, and this is unacceptable. What I would like to add to what the Member said is that she rightly said that NATO is a defence community. That is true, and it is very important to stress this, because there are misunderstandings, and I still see them, misunderstandings or slides, as you like. NATO is therefore a defence community, and we are doing everything we can to keep it that way, and NATO is functioning as it should. NATO is not an attacking community, but a defence community, and we must do everything we can to avoid a clash between NATO and Russia, a nuclear power, especially when we hear statements such as statements from the German Foreign Minister recently, when he said that we are fighting the war with Russia, the German Foreign Minister said, or when it was possible to hear a statement recently that we are thinking about which country or countries should send soldiers to this war conflict outside Russia and Ukraine. When there is therefore an escalation threat, when war is at risk of spreading, it is particularly important to stress that NATO is a defence alliance and that the clash between NATO and Russia must be avoided at all costs. So much for Mrs Vadai that she is clearly concerned about the protection of Sweden and Finland. I understand that, but what I would like to bring here is that it would be okay if you were sometimes concerned or worried about Hungary's defence, because he, after all, was a defense secretary, said that the army is the new stadium, and there is no need to spend money on it. We can see how wrong that was. In fact, I do not want to say anything to Mr Bertalan Tóth's speech, perhaps just that I had the impression that a politician of a former large party, a great party of government, would find it difficult to digest the fact that his party has now become a dwarf party and is about to end. For reasons of mercy, I would not like to add more to your speech. [[An intervention from the ranks of our country.]] Congressman Brenner Koloman, who also had urgent business to attend to, and if I see it correctly, I would like to, well, send a message... Anybody here? There's no one from Jobbik. [[David Bedő intervenes.]] You'd be kind enough to hand over Mr. Momentum in the spirit of the left-wing alliance. So the congressman, he said many times that they were conservative. Now I'd tell him that every time he tells me this, if he ever did, it's never gonna be true again, because there's a stain on their clothes called Gyurcsány. It's like a big mud stain on a man's clothes and he's trying to wipe it with such a weak tissue, that's not gonna work. So every time you say they're conservative, they're still pro Gyurcsány. And if you have brought Russia here, Congressman Brenner, I would suggest that you ask your new boss, Ference Gyurcsány, or his former leader Peter James, if I understand Mr Márki-Zay correctly, these two gentlemen have come to many places together, so ask them how Toto felt in the arms of President Putin. And, well, perhaps so much to Brenner Koloman that a representative who became a right-wing radical became a Gyurcsányist spoke of Hungarian national interest and reliability. Well, I have to say, it's completely untrue in this respect, too. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai, holding his cell phone in his hand, takes his seat as a representative.]] I'm sorry that Congresswoman Vadai just got back. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: I'm sorry.]] He had to make a phone call. I wouldn't repeat what I said to you. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: I'll read it!]] be nice to read, maybe to view the footage [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I'll take a look!]] Not even because I don't have time anymore. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: That's right!]] Unfortunately, though I'd be eager to say it again. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] Finally, if you allow me, Congressman Márton Tompos, who said that he would like to argue only a little with Agnes Vadai: I understand that, with the new boss, you do not want to argue, of course, that is understandable. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] Let's not spread everything around the walls of this House. So I understand that the Gyurcsány party's youth organization with the boss, the chief's party, would just like to argue a little bit. However, what I do not know is more relevant, but it is also important, is that, if I understand correctly, Mr Tompos spoke about the Hungarian interest, or as if he had said a few words about it. So a representative of a party campaigning against Hungarians in the Highlands, and also in Transylvania, how would it know anything about the Hungarian interest? Or, if you know, it's even more serious, because that's exactly what you're doing. He asked me how it felt. [[It's an intervention from the Momentum.]] I would like to reply to the Member: to stand up for the Hungarian interest and to represent the Hungarian interest is always an honour and uplifting feeling. I suggest you try it sometime. It'll be a great experience. [[Ferenc Gelencsér intervenes.]] But if you'll excuse me, I'd like to ask you something as a close-up. The Momentum would spit against you if you entered a coalition with Jobbik and MSZP. How does it feel? Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dávid Bedő: NATO debate! NATO debate!]]
u2023-03-27-79	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Tamás Menczer. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken in accordance with the [[Tamás Menczer to Dr. Ágnes Vadai: He wasn't here! Stay here. The president's ringing the bell.]] the meeting will take place today. I'm recessing for 18 hours. (Sunning: 17.38 18.04 President: István Jakab Note: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Szűcs)
u2023-03-27-80	Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. My fellow Members, please take your seats and check that your card has been placed in the ballot counting machine. Before we start voting, we will have a presence check to verify the functioning of the voting machines. Please press one of the buttons of your voting machine, the current button. [[Attendance check. Present: 175, away: 24.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, It follows the XXV of 2022 on Hungary's central budget for 2023. T/2667. Decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to bill No 1. T/2667/82. T/2667/83. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 47, 48 and 49, Jobbik Group Nos 17, 22 and 30, and the LMP Group Nos 39, 40 and 41. We decide on these by group of representatives according to the order given by the group leaders. The amendments requested for reservation can be accepted side by side. Amendment 47 is proposed by Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 56 votes in favour, 124 votes against and 7 abstentions. Amendment 48 is proposed by Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 56 votes in favour, 124 votes against and 7 abstentions. Amendment 49 is proposed by Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 123 votes against and 7 abstentions. Amendment 17 is proposed by Dániel Z. Kárpát. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 61 votes in favour, 124 votes against and 3 abstentions. Amendment 22 was tabled by Balázs Ander and Koloman Brenner. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 61 votes in favour, 124 votes against and 3 abstentions. Amendment 30 is proposed by László György Lukács. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 62 votes in favour, 124 votes against and 2 abstentions. Amendment 39 is proposed by Antal Csárdi. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 22 votes in favour, 125 votes against and 40 abstentions. Amendment 40 is proposed by Antal Csárdi. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 31 votes in favour, 123 votes against and 32 abstentions. Amendment 41 is proposed by Antal Csárdi. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 64 votes in favour, 123 votes against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Committee on Budgets accepts T/2677/82. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 125 votes in favour, 63 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, CXCIV of 2011 on Hungary's economic stability. Act T/2667/85 and Act T/2667/85. It shall send a single proposal to the President of the Fiscal Council. The Council shall inform the President of the Parliament within three days of the adoption of Article 25 of the Stability Act. § 3 of the Opinion. The final vote will take place on Friday's sitting. It follows from the publication of the Protocol on the accession of the Republic of Finland to the North Atlantic Treaty, T/637. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/637. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Parliament adopted the bill by 182 votes in favour, 6 votes against and no abstentions. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties. Interventions from the benches of DK: Shame! Laszlo Szászfalvi: Children! Noise.]] [[18.10]] Dear Parliament, [[It's constant noise.]] Dear Parliament, [[It's ringing. Intercoms. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: What makes you think we don't like our country? We don't love you guys! Laszlo Szászfalvi: Stop howling!]] I would like to ask my fellow Members to continue our work. The election of two members of the Monetary Council of the Hungarian National Bank follows. At today's meeting, the Economic Committee heard the persons proposed to the candidate and, acting under the authority of the Hungarian National Bank Act, proposed that Mr Zoltán Kovács be elected as a member of the Monetary Council of the Hungarian National Bank with effect from 6 April 2023. S/3364, submitted by the President to this effect. You can find out more about this on the website. Dear Parliament, The members of the Monetary Council shall be elected by Parliament for six years by the vote of the majority of the Members of Parliament present. The Parliament shall decide on the personal proposal without debate. I ask the Honourable Parliament that S/3364. As proposed by the Hungarian National Bank, he elects Zoltán Kovács as a member of the Monetary Council of the Hungarian National Bank. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament elected Zoltán Kovács to the Monetary Council of the Hungarian National Bank by 126 votes in favour, 60 votes against and without abstention. Congratulations! [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] I ask the Honourable Parliament that S/3364. According to the proposal No.1, he elects Dr. Éva Wheat as a member of the Monetary Council of the National Bank of Hungary. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament elected Dr. Éva Wheat to the Monetary Council of the National Bank of Hungary by 126 votes in favour, 60 votes against and no abstentions. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] Congratulations to the elected council members. Dear Parliament, Now the solemn oath of elected officials and the signature of the oaths. I ask Mr Zoltán Kovács and Dr Éva Wheat to come to the centre of the Chamber and take their oath. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to read the text of the oath, and I would ask those in the Chamber to stand up and listen to it as usual. [[The people in this room stand up. Notary Dr. Lajos Szűcs reads the words of the oath.]]
u2023-03-27-81	I, Zoltán Kovács/Dr. Éva Wheat I vow to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its legislation, and to keep it with others, to exercise my position as a member of the Monetary Council of the Hungarian National Bank for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-03-27-82	Dear Parliament, The oath papers will now be signed. I would ask Mr. Victor Vinnai to prepare the oath papers for signature, and I would ask the elected officials to sign them. [[It's happening. Dr. Győző Vinnai congratulates the elected members of the Monetary Council of the Hungarian National Bank and gives a copy of the signed oath document. First, Viktor Orbán, then László Kövér, Dr. Zsolt Semjén, Máté Kocsis, Dr. István Simicskó, Mihály Varga, Péter Ungár, Imre Ritter, Dr. Zita Gurmai, György Lukács and Dr. István Apáti congratulated him.]] Dear Parliament, Allow me to congratulate the members of the Monetary Council of the National Bank of Hungary on behalf of the Parliament and myself. [[It's a short break.]] [[18.20]] Dear Parliament, It follows in line with the 11/2022 on the establishment of committees, the election of members and officials of the Parliament. [[V. 2.]] A decision to amend a decision. S/3356, tabled by the President You can find out more about this on the website. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the content of the personal proposal put forward by the President.
u2023-03-27-83	1. 11/2022 on the establishment of committees, election of members and officials of the Parliament [[V. 2.]] Parliamentary resolution hereinafter referred to as 'the parliamentary decision', paragraph 1 is amended as follows: Parliament elects László Varju, László Varju, instead of DK, Ference Varga, an independent member of the committee. 2. Point 4 of the parliamentary decision is amended as follows: the Parliament elects Ference Varga, independent and vice-president of the committee, to replace László Kordás, DK, as a former vice-president. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption.
u2023-03-27-84	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, First, on the basis of points 1 and 3 of the proposal, we decide on the election of the member of the committee, and then, according to point 2 of the proposal, we decide on the Commission official from the list of committee members. I ask the Honourable Parliament that S/3356. It shall elect a member of the Committee by adopting points 1 and 3 as proposed. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected the member of the committee by 165 votes in favour, 8 votes against and 5 abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament that S/3356. According to point 2 of the proposal No.2, Ference Varga is elected Vice-President of the Committee on Enterprise Development from among the members of the Committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Ference Varga as Vice-President of the Committee on Enterprise Development by 165 votes to 8 with 4 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. (Sunning: 18.23 18.26 President: István Jakab Note: Dr. Winner Vinnai and Sándor Szabó)
u2023-03-27-85	Dear Parliament, We continue our work with interpellations. Please understand and please take your seats. Dear Parliament, László Varju, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance: It's an address. By replying to the interpellation, Prime Minister István Nagy, who is responsible and competent according to the subject, commissioned the Minister for Economic Development. At the request of Minister János Fónagy State Secretary, he responds to the interpellation. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2023-03-27-86	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, You have been doing nothing for governance since autumn 2021, for about a year and a half, and you have been doing nothing but watching with your feet, as inflation in Orbán, which breaks all European records, cripples Hungarian people and businesses. The price of some products has been temporarily frozen, but its fuels have been dissolved, and they will soon do so with some basic food price stops. Moreover, these measures did not reduce, but further increase, the inflation in Orbán, so it seems that the science of the Orbán government has run out. However, you have taken further steps to further develop inflation; you are extremely talented. In spite of the relative decline in food prices across Europe, along with general inflation, food prices remain to be expected in Hungary. According to several organisations of the Hungarian food industry, the main reason for the historical increase in Hungarian food prices is the sevenfold increase of the Orbán government. Thus, even if the world market price for gas is falling and cheaper, the price of electricity has become lower than at the time before the Russian-Ukrainian war, the glutton Orbán government is refusing to reduce the costs for businesses in order to increase the revenue of the general consumption tax. In fact, invoices are sent on the basis of energy contracts that were already concluded with Hungarian companies when the world market price was record-sized. That is why I ask the honourable Secretary of State: why does the Orbán government let the Hungarian families down by increasing the cost of food prices by raising the rent? Why don't you give immediate premiums to all Hungarian production companies, including food and agricultural enterprises, to cut their costs and do something about inflation in Orbán? Because we can see that due to the seven-time increase in overhead costs, it is no wonder that a surge of bankruptcy threatens domestic businesses, the remaining players of Hungarian agriculture and the food industry, and they are unable to reduce the price of raw materials or food. [[18.30]] You must understand: this is why Europe's record inflation in Orbán cannot be reduced, which is why the price of milk, butter, bread, meat and many other foods in stores is not reduced, which is why millions of people feel that a weekend buy-in is an unsolvable task for them. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for the DK benches.]]
u2023-03-27-87	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2023-03-27-88	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The government's position is that the factors behind inflation are diverse, but largely caused by war and sanctions. Thus, the fastest means of reducing inflation would be the abolition of sanctions for the Russian-Ukrainian war and the immediate ceasefire. Hungary cannot eliminate sanctions policy, but it vetoed decisions that would cause the most direct damage to the Hungarian economy. So far, some 20 measures have been taken by the government to reduce sanctioned inflation and counter the negative economic impact, which both protect jobs and help families and the economy. These measures worked because, as the government had indicated in advance, inflation peaked in January 2023 and a decline started in February. Food inflation has peaked in December 22 and has been decreasing ever since. It is a government priority to preserve jobs and provide job opportunities for registered job seekers. The price fixing of basic foods is not for market purposes, but is a social measure to ensure that basic foods are available at a moderate price before the inflation period in the current inflation situation. Many European competition authorities actively address the phenomenon of food price increases, employ governments and authorities in several EU Member States, and use different price monitoring and nuanced applications. The Hungarian Competition Authority also initiated the establishment of an online price monitoring database, supported by the Minister for Economic Development. The government remains committed to breaking down sanctioned inflation, and declining inflation opens the door to a reduction in central bank and market interest rates. And the price stops will stay until inflation can be set on a downward path. I stress that the government grants HUF 181 000 per month to each family for the average consumption, so much more would be paid for gas and electricity if there were no reduction in the costs. In view of the fact that you have also mentioned names on the question of the Member, allow me to do the same. In the campaign, Márki-Zay repeatedly said that he did not want to maintain the reduction of the rent, and President Gyurcsány, the left-wing leader, briefly called the reduction stupid, and the left considered the price stop a fake measure. We are still committed to breaking down sanctioned inflation, and we trust that by the end of the year we will push it back into one digit while protecting the Hungarian economy from recession. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. Please accept my answer. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-03-27-89	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2023-03-27-90	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to point out in advance that I'm not accepting the answer. I would like to show you, Mr Secretary of State, for a single example, in relation to an agricultural enterprise in the food sector and in particular in the livestock sector. Dear Secretary of State, I have a paper in my hand that proves that the land-based aid has not been paid since October, that the aid for animals has not been paid, that the Hungarian budget has been reduced, that the aid has been abolished, and that they are prohibited from grazing. This is serious because, by the way, feed cannot even be purchased on the market. So these animals were sentenced to death. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, it cannot be accepted, because this is how you deal with keeping businesses. I think that we should give Hungarian businesses, agricultural enterprises, premium and producer support. However, the Orbán government is doing nothing during the livelihood crisis. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for the DK benches.]]
u2023-03-27-91	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting on Friday. Dear Parliament, Imre Gurmai Zita and Imre Komjáthi, representatives of the MSZP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Energy:. When can the former drink clean drinking water again? It's an address. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai has the floor.
u2023-03-27-92	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, The state has long planned and less and less secretly sought to acquire another municipal asset, the waterworks, but this has resulted in increasing numbers of settlements bringing falling quality drinking water. The waterworks in Hajdúdorog operated indirectly until 2013, after which 14 settlements, most of them with pro-government leadership, were established by Hajdúváleti Bihari Vízközmű Szolgáltató Zrt., which completed the task until 31 December 2021. At that time, the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, in a difficult way, withdrew the operating licence from a service provider with a high rating based on the opinion of the inhabitants of the region. The operation of the waterworks in the field of the service provider was solved by official designation, involving the Debrecen Waterworks, ÉRV Zrt. and Nyírségvíz Zrt., but the problems started practically from then. The designated service provider is Nyírségvíz Zrt. in relation to Hajdúszág. Since the transfer took place, due to the under-financing of the water utility system, the new service provider implemented cost-saving measures, resulting in a constant and dramatic deterioration in the quality of drinking water in the city. The dissatisfaction of the population grew from month to month, and the municipality drifted helplessly with the processes, as the municipality is responsible for the service under the legislation, but in reality it has no influence on the service provider. At the end of 2022 the case was held, as the uncertain municipality did not seek a new final service provider, that the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office once again designated Nyírségvíz Zrt. in a decision, which challenged the decision. As a result, a new provider has been appointed, now ÉRV Zrt. in person. Secretary of State, service providers come and go, but one thing remains the same: the quality of water remains low-critic, yellow, stinky, confusing. It has to be said that people don't dare to eat it, and they don't even dream of cooking. The ancients don't even know who the service provider is right now, but they see that the old good drinking water is gone, and something else is going on. Madam State Secretary, with respect to the seriousness of the problem, I would like you to respond to the fact that when the municipalities receive assistance for the ageing water supply exchange over the age of 60-70, the final national renovation programme will be completed. What will be the fate of municipal-owned service providers, receive state aid to compensate for losses in revenue and cost increases due to government decisions, and when can the former drink clean, colourless, odorless drinking water again? Thank you very much for your patience. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-03-27-93	Thank you. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Zsófia Koncz responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2023-03-27-94	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Last Wednesday I had the opportunity to answer the written question of fellow Members with the same title and content. Now allow me to explain the facts a little bit more, and I hope that I can convince the congresswoman as well. I think there is no debate between us about the fact that in 2010, the government inherited a bad situation in the water utilities sector, because, as you mentioned, since the change of regime, the pipeline and the technical renovations have unfortunately been largely cancelled. In recent years, the government has supported the reconstruction of water utilities with HUF 4.5 billion and efficiency improvements with HUF 3.5 billion support. [[18.40]] In particular, in the case of Hajdúdorog, significant network renovations and the construction of new wiring sections were also carried out in 2014, but the water treatment building and the hydroglobus were also renovated, thereby significantly improving the city's drinking water supply system within the framework of KEOP. In order to avoid economic instability, at the end of 2020, the government provided state aid to the loss-making municipality-owned water utility providers via the owner's municipalities for nearly HUF 4 billion. Let me add to my previous written reply here so that while in 2010 nearly 400 organisations provided drinking water and sanitation services and treatment in Hungary, as a result of integration processes, this number decreased to 40 by 2020, which increased the uniform quality of services and security of supply. Nemzeti Vízművek Zrt. started in 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Despite the measures taken in the water utility sector in recent years, the modernisation of networks is one of the most important tasks. The government's aim is to make the operation of the sector more sustainable and to ensure quality water supply in the long term in order to ensure the safe provision of Hungarian families. Therefore, under the leadership of our fellow Member Zsolt V. Németh in the Ministry of Energy, a State Secretary responsible for the water utility sector was established, whose task is to regulate and supervise water utility services and to cooperate with important stakeholders in the sector, including local authorities. I would like to point out that on 6 March a professional consultation was held with the Hungarian Water Facility Association under the leadership of Minister Csaba Lantos on the challenges and solutions to the sector. The national water utility public service strategy, in the preparation of which MaViz has also been actively involved, offers short- and long-term solutions to the sector's challenges. The development included in the strategy will lead to the creation of a modern, rational and energy efficient water utility network that will enable resource-efficient and sustainable operation that is beneficial for both people and the environment. In the case of Hajdúdorog, I would also like to point out that István Tiba, a Member of the region, also informed me that the local government is kept informed by the service provider, and that the municipality and the city have published information to the general public today on the question posed by the congresswoman. In all cases, the government will examine what assistance it can offer, and will do everything in its power to provide healthy and clean drinking water for the Hungarian people. Please, Congresswoman, accept my reply. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-27-95	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for your answers. I'll ask Congresswoman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2023-03-27-96	Thank you very much. I am obviously reassured by a number of things, Madam Secretary. But the problem is that when a baby has to be bathed and cannot be bathed in this water, there has to be a solution. If you want to cook, you can't cook with this water. I specifically looked at what this water looks like. When it settles down, it's a rock gas, and when you take a bath, it becomes black. But I wouldn't want to joke about this. I understand the good intentions, and I think the problem is that after the change, the quality of the water started to deteriorate. I would like to know how quickly we can propose a solution, because I think that this drinking water cannot be used for drinking, bathing or cooking. So we need an immediate solution. I think the most important thing for the ancients is to reassure them that this condition must be eliminated in some form. Once again, I understand, I understand, from 400 to 40, everything's great, I'm just interested in the end result, to get clean, drinkable drinking water. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2023-03-27-97	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I would like to inform you that, according to our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on Friday's meeting. Dear Parliament, Róbert Dudás, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the finance minister:, Why must Hungarian people pay the price of Orbán inflation? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-03-27-98	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to start by saying that, when we are talking about loosen-up inflation, the reasons for this need to be sought, not outside, but inside, in the government's economic policy. And why? Even because the war had not yet started, when inflation in Hungary had already been launched, and it was already the highest in Europe. There is no area in Hungary today where prices have not been drastically increased, and in such a way that they are also outstanding in Europe. And here I am thinking not of things that can be bypassed, but of things that are a fundamental part of life, of basic needs for people. I am thinking, for example, of heating, but especially of eating; and I think that these are not luxuries. As regards the price of food: instead of making a real solution to the government, as has been done by the governments of the neighbouring countries, a price cap has been introduced for some products. It was merely a communication solution. If you ever go to the store, you'll see that it wasn't helpful, it was more of a damage. He's done damage to the merchants, he's done damage to the economy, he's done damage to the customers. The traders were forced to buy the products at market prices, which they then had to sell at printed prices. And let's be honest, I don't think it's helping when sugar has a price cap, but you can't get it in the store. Here's the thing, Mr. Secretary, that we got there, you can say that a long time ago, if there was no money, they threw together a juice or a potato with pepper, and today we're going to say that if they whip up a juice or a potato with pepper, there will be no money left. This has been achieved by miseconomic policies, a deficit economy and Europe's champion inflation, and by the same token, the prices that are getting out of hand. The extent to which the price of the products has increased could be long-term classified. There are products that have increased 100, 110 or 120 percent in the last year alone. A few weeks ago, when György Matolcsy had spoken for the second time, his criticism of the government here, at the plenary session of Parliament, he pointed out that they had warned the Hungarian government years ago that the brakes should be stepped on, instead the Hungarian government stepped on the gas, obviously, because there was an election coming. They led people to believe that there was a lot of money here, but there was no money, and now all Hungarian people are drinking the burden of this faulty economic policy. Secretary of State, why do people have to pay for the wrong economic policy, the inflation in Orbán, and when do they lead out the communist price cap made purely in the communication space, which causes a shortage economy, increases the price of other products and inflation? Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2023-03-27-99	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Deputy Minister András Tállai responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2023-03-27-100	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Needless to say, I have to argue with you. It is not that inflation in Hungary was caused only by the current government, the Orbán government. We have all the evidence we need. We claim that inflation was basically caused by war, or the wrong response to war in Brussels. It's called a sanction. When we restrict the movement of a commodity, the intervention in the economy will have an impact, and it will certainly have a price increase. Especially if we restrict the movement of goods that we do not have in Hungary, from which we need to import decisively. The movement of gas and oil and energy is restricted by sanctions in Brussels. This is the cause of inflation. For example, the average level of inflation in the EU has tripled. But to prove my claim, I say countries: for example, in Latvia inflation is also above 20 percent, but in the Czech Republic, Estonia, Lithuania and Poland there are 17-18 percent inflation in February, according to Eurostat data. And according to Eurostat data, inflation in Poland has increased from month to month as in Hungary. So to say that this is a Hungarian peculiarity and caused by the government is a mistake, it is bad even for a political statement. [[18.50]] But what did the Hungarian government do to fight inflation? The first and most important measure is that we have maintained the reduction of the overhead for the average consumption. This is calculated to save an average of HUF 181 thousand for households. It is true that the fuel price cap is a thing of the past, yet it has helped people for a year to make it easier to refuel. There is also a debate on the price cap, but interestingly, I do not have to argue with you, but with your recent political ally, the MSZP, who claims that the price cap should be introduced to more goods. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Of course, because they are communists.]] and the price cap should be kept up. It is rare to have such a serious dispute between opposition parties. There is a very important difference in approach between crisis management in the past, inflation management and the current government, when we say that pensioners and income creators need to give even higher incomes so that they can cope more easily with inflation price pressure in shops. That is why the 13th month pension was introduced and that is why pensions were raised by 15 percent from 1 January. As far as income is concerned, it is quite clear that the objective must be to maintain real income, which has been achieved in many companies and companies. What's the goal? The goal is to break inflation by the end of the year and make it a single digit. We are therefore willing to take all measures. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-27-101	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Deputy Minister's reply.
u2023-03-27-102	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr Secretary, you have referred to sanctions at the very beginning, I just want to say that all the sanctions have been voted on so far, and I am sure that no matter how many sanctions there will be, you will also vote for them, so please do not refer to this. Minister of State, Romanian GDP has left the Hungarian GDP, and we are at the end of all statistics, except corruption, because we are the first in that, but unfortunately we cannot be proud of that. Secretary of State, the VAT on the European record must be reduced, the VAT on basic foods must be released, as must the VAT on the rent. For 13 years of two-thirds governance, all options were yours, as you now have all the responsibilities. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2023-03-27-103	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman did not accept the Deputy Minister's reply. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, a decision will be taken on Friday's meeting. Dear Parliament, Dávid Dócs, representative of Mi Hazan, submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade:. Why don't you ask people about NATO accession? It's an address. Congressman David Dócs has the floor.
u2023-03-27-104	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Although, unfortunately, Parliament accepted Finland's accession to NATO a few minutes ago outside the Group of the Hungarian Movement, I think it is necessary to explain why we have taken this position. By forcing Sweden and Finland into the NATO Alliance, the two countries will not be given bulletproof vests, but they will be targeted, as so far the neutral zone between the two military superpowers will cease to exist with this totally unjustified decision in this area. There is no justification for this, as these countries are currently under no armed threat from Russia. On the other hand, NATO refers to itself as a defence alliance with covert steps, but it is getting closer to another nuclear power, giving an opportunity to develop a wider possible armed conflict. Although Hungary is a member of NATO, we cannot look without saying that instead of striving for neutrality and avoiding the Third World War at all costs, after Ukraine, which is not a member of the Alliance, they will now create another buffer zone. America's dominance is indisputable within NATO. With this in mind, it is particularly repulsive that, by eliminating the neutrality of Sweden and Finland, it acts as an aggressor when it expands its possible length by more than a thousand kilometres rather than by reducing its commitment to peace and narrowing the front lines. Every war has its losers and its winners, but in the event that the current states escalate and the conflict expands, everyone in Europe will be on the losing side, as we can already see preliminary signs when Europeans are killing Europeans, when those away from the front can feel the consequences of war on their own wallets. America, on the other hand, will profit more than once in history. Our homeland Movement has been firmly on the side of peace from the beginning, and we are aware that the ice below us is very thin. This is why the government should not support manoeuvres that can easily sink us into the waves that others are generating. Finally, I would like to convey a desperate message from a Swedish citizen to me and also to ask you a question, as my fellow Member Nacsa mentioned, indeed our mailboxes are filled with messages from Finnish and Swedish citizens. I used the word "involvement" at the beginning of my interpellation, since neither the Swedes nor the Finnish people asked for their views in a decisive way on such a question that would determine their future. However, it is well known that the majority of Finnish and Swedish people reject this initiative. Therefore, the question arises as to why, as a government of national consultation, they refuse to consult people on matters of real importance, such as the further expansion of NATO, of the possible emergence of a third world war. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-03-27-105	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Péter András Sztáray responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2023-03-27-106	Mr. President, thank you very much. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I am not going to go into the details of why the government supports the accession of Sweden and Finland to NATO, that is another debate, but we have said our arguments in many places. However, I can answer and remind you that the government has given people the opportunity to express their views on the enlargement of NATO to the north, since it has actually put both ratification documents on accession to social consultation, and this has also taken place between 18 October 2022 and 28 February 2023. So there was a chance for people to express their views on the further expansion of NATO. If you are thinking of a referendum or a referendum on this, I would like to stress that there has not been a referendum on any occasion after the accession of Hungary to NATO, because Parliament was able to make a clear decision on the issue, so it was not necessary. So, in this case, it is within these limits. I would like to ask you to take this point into account when considering the answer. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-27-107	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2023-03-27-108	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I am unable to accept the answer, because it was really possible to comment on the way we joined on an online basis, but I believe that national consultations could be held on matters of much less racial importance, and even though Parliament could decide the necessity of this accession here in Sweden and Finland, I think that social support is not behind it. For this reason, I think that we should have sought the opinion of society much more widely on such a very important and perhaps most important matter for our future. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-03-27-109	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, decisions will be taken on Friday's meeting. Dear Parliament, Rébebé Szabó, a representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Energy:. In the middle of the gas and climate crisis, new gas plants? It's an address. Congresswoman Rebecca Szabó has the floor.
u2023-03-27-110	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Orbán signed the agreement on Paks enlargement nine years ago. Paks II has no news, no ashes since then, but it can be seen that he put the country in danger when he put the Hungarian energy policy on a Russian nuclear power plant that was never built. When Russia attacked Ukraine last year, the old mistakes that were already known came out immediately: the excessive Russian import dependency, the wind power ban, nine years of nothing-eating, all the consequences of the Orbán energy spree. [[19.00]] When the Orbán government first announced the solar-atomic energy model, we immediately said that this would not work: the operation of weather-dependent solar power plants cannot be balanced only with the nuclear power plant optimized for the production of cord current, and we also said that the solar-atomic scenario will result in the strengthening of Russian gas dependence and the construction of new gas plants. And now that the government is running this country into a dead end predicted by the Dialogue Greenes nine years ago, we have to tell you again that this is not going to work. On the one hand, it is outrageous that what you have called nonsense all along is that another nuclear power plant is not a solution, especially in combination with solar energy, and now that Mr Orbán says it, they are trying to sell it as some kind of global wisdom. Look back at the parliamentary records. We told them, and then the majority of the government laughed arrogantly, and now it's clear that we were right. On the other hand, we understand that Paks II. You've failed, and you already know that, while you've installed the extremely energy-intensive battery plants here, and now you're trying to build gas plants as damage relief. But where's the gas coming from? Russia is not a reliable partner in terms of price or quantity; we still get the most expensive Russian gas, and it is also life-threatening to deliver the country to Putin. So, respectfully, what's the plan, where do they get the extra gas in two or three years? We see that when we have to justify regulation governance, they are preparing for a long war, and when they are preparing for their impromptu gas project, then perhaps for quick peace, and that the Russians will suddenly improve and be reliable. I am interested in why, for example, wind power plants or other renewable energy sources are not being developed, as there is a climate crisis, and our CO2 emissions should not be further increased by gas plants. I ask why they always end up at the Russian atom and Russian gas, as if we weren't in 2023, but in the 1980s, in the last century. Thank you in advance for your answer. [[A round of applause in the dialogue.]]
u2023-03-27-111	Thank you. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Zsófia Koncz responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2023-03-27-112	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and During today, we have had the opportunity to speak and discuss a very similar subject. I would like to draw your attention here, in principle, to the fact that if your policy, which strongly supports sanctions, had been in place, there would probably not have been enough gas and oil in Hungary in recent months; I think this cannot be emphasised enough. If you are really serious about green policy, then you should be aware that, in addition to renewable energy sources, there is also a need for spare capacities that produce energy even when the wind is not blowing or the sun is not shining. The compensation of weather-dependent renewable sources requires a large amount, as I have already said today, of conventional power plants. If we were to obtain this entirely from abroad, it would increase the vulnerability you mentioned, which is why we would like to produce it at home. A total of 1600 megawatts of state-of-the-art power generation capacity can be created in the Tiszaújváros and Visonta power plants. These combined cycle gas turbine power plants can be quickly built, are highly efficient and otherwise their CO2 emissions are also low. The new blocks can be based on the activation of thousands of megawatted solar power systems and can also be suitable for the combustion of hydrogen. With regard to the development of renewables, you are banging open gates, as we already have a capacity of more than 4 gigawatts of solar cells and 170,000 small power plants of household size. By 2030 we planned 6 gigawatts, which seems to have built-in capacity of up to 10-12 gigawatts, while the country's average consumption today is 6-6,5 gigawatts. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If we look at the neighbouring countries, and if we look at the representatives who are fighting for green policy... here I have already mentioned Germany, where we can see that the coal plants that have already been shut down have been restarted. In October, a total of 12 coal-fired power plants were switched back on, which I told you today, but not that the Germans also decided to continue to strengthen lignite mining, and to this end even wind power plants were decommissioned. Obviously, you know that the environmental burden of coal power plants is much higher than that of gas turbine power plants. It can also be seen that more and more European countries are starting to turn towards nuclear power plants, which means building new blocks or extending the existing ones. Nuclear energy can also reduce the use of natural gas. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Hungary imports more than 75% of energy. As Prime Minister said, the policy of the next two years will be to create energy capacities. In order to create energy sovereignty, the government wants to build as much on domestic energy sources as possible, with the priority of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant; we will not give up on Paks I's extension of operational time, nor Paks II. construction. We do know, however, that you personally did not support this and even turned to President János Áder at the time, asking him not to sign the law on the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. Compared to this, 66 percent of Hungarians named nuclear energy as a secure and continuous power supply for the population. I would like to ask the Member to support the Government's position on these ideas in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-27-113	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for your reply. I'll ask Congresswoman to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2023-03-27-114	I can't accept the Secretary of State's reply, and I can't respond to everything in a minute, but I would like to mention two things. One is that this morning, at the meeting of the Committee on Sustainable Development, I was able to listen to one of your Deputy State Secretarys, as he was constantly looking for excuses for the new EU renewable energy road map, and he was trying to explain how the EU renewable share in Hungary could not be achieved. I think this is, unfortunately, your attitude, what is happening in practice. I would like to remind you and I will be happy to send in writing that we have already established Mr Benedek Jávor, Head of the European Parliamentary List of Dialogues-Greens [[Bence Rétvári: Oh, oh! Eszter Debate: Wow!]] the coordination and participation of two studies, the Green Energy Roadmap and the Green Home for all! Studies explaining in detail how to achieve, without nuclear energy and Russian gas, otherwise based on renewables, in a certain period of time, that we are not dependent on Russia at all and that our CO2 emissions are also reduced. If you do not know this, I would be happy to send it, and I hope you will be able to support it. Thank you. [[A round of applause in the dialogue.]]
u2023-03-27-115	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting on Friday. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Energy:. How did the government feel about building Hungary's future on the use of polluting battery production, when they are not able to enforce the environmental and OSH rules that have been mentioned many times in operation and production in the plants already in operation by virtue of the law, through the involvement of the competent authorities? It's an address. By answering the interpellation, the Prime Minister appointed Mr.Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, who is competent and competent according to the subject. State Secretary Péter András Sztáray responds to the interpellation at the request of the Minister. You have the floor.
u2023-03-27-116	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Well, we could start with what environmental guarantees the government is talking about when it's reported that the water manager who drew attention to the real use of water at the factory planned for Debrecen is being fired. We can see that the government has such a battery manufacturer's strategy, you call in a lot of gigantic battery companies, these companies bring pollution here, but they take the profits out of the country and they use our natural resources to an amazing extent; otherwise, you are trying to hide the extent of this. But you keep saying in your statements that you want to present the strictest environmental and other guarantees for the Hungarian people, even though there are concrete examples to support the fact that you cannot enforce these existing rules in the case of existing factories. Let us consider some examples. In the case of the Samsung plant in Göd, an independent study carried out by civilians showed traces of toxic solvent in different wells, which solvents are otherwise used for battery production. Another example in the Göd: it was also revealed by civil action that since 2016 no samples of the monitoring well in the Göd factory were taken and these wells were buried in 2018; this could be done because the government did not require these tests. [[19.10]] But let us mention what happened at the battery disposal plant in Bátonyterenye, here too the authorities have drawn attention to serious violations. It was found that there was also a labour and disaster penalty, and there was no disaster permit for the company. We know that, unfortunately, last summer there was a so-called technological explosion where several people were injured. The same company's site in Szentmiklós also reportedly had an accident on 14 March, so it was a recent accident with a complete news blackout. Here, too, the various authorities have found that workers' health and physical integrity are seriously threatened by the operation of the company, once again imposing a million-dollar fine. Well, it can be seen that the million-dollar fines imposed by the authorities have actually not been able to achieve any effect in companies where they receive billion-dollar state aid. My specific questions are: how does the government intend to guarantee that in any way they will be able to enforce the rules at future factories or future factories if the practice shows that this does not work? My further question is, does the Hungarian Chamber of Engineers consider that a full environmental review of the Göd factory is necessary? I would also like to ask the Secretary of State why the water expert who, by the way, has signed the opinion that virtually everyone who considers the water use of the factory designed for Debrecen to be unacceptable and expressed concern is fired. Mr Secretary, if you have information, I'd like you to share with the public what you can tell us about the accident at the Szentmiklós plant. Thank you very much.
u2023-03-27-117	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Péter András Sztáray responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2023-03-27-118	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I would like to start by saying that electromobility and battery companies have appeared as new phenomena, a new technology, so it is understandable, of course, that people have questions, even fears, about this. These questions and fears must be heard and answered; correct and reassuring answers must be given. The Hungarian government's position and expectations are strong: in any case, investments can be made in compliance with the strictest environmental standards. We have had strong expectations for all investors so far and will continue to have to comply with the relevant environmental and other rules. It is also a fact that the automotive industry provides the livelihood of hundreds of thousands of families in Hungary. For the government, it is important that families have jobs, regular incomes, and the automotive industry has a key role to play. The livelihoods of hundreds of thousands of families depend on the automotive industry, and this hundreds of thousands of families can keep their jobs and regular incomes and continue economic growth if, in understanding the challenges and tasks of the future of Western automotive companies, the battery companies can also move here. The automotive companies are Western, but the ten largest battery companies in the world are Eastern, seven of which are Chinese and three are South Korean. There's a huge competition for these battery companies. In the United States, 40 such battery factories are planned to be set up. In Germany, 14 such factories are planned to be built. The Chinese CATL factory in Debrecen is already in operation in Türingia, and I would add that the left-wing greens are also enthusiastic. In France, Renault cooperates with a Chinese-Japanese consortium. In recent years, the world economy has been turned upside down twice, so everything is uncertain; there is only one process that is unshakable, and this is the expansion of electric cars. It is now decided where the centres of the European green industry will be, and it is now decided where the industrial centres of the future, the car factories of the future, will be. About 40 percent of the value of electric cars is given by batteries. Where there will be no battery production, the automotive industry will degrade and jobs will cease. Hungary cannot afford this. The weight of the automotive industry in the domestic total product is currently nearly 20 percent, so this is at stake. We want a strong automotive industry, high added value jobs, and Hungary taking the lead in the development of a new green industry, taking into account, of course, the nature conservation requirements. Thank you for your attention. Please accept my answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-27-119	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Mr. Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's reply. You have the floor.
u2023-03-27-120	Thank you, Mr. President. Unfortunately, I cannot accept the answer given that no answer was given to the specific questions and points raised. So here, Mr Secretary of State, he repeated the propaganda reports on the basis of which the government will provide guarantees that the practice has shown that it is unable to deliver. So you simply can't enforce the rules currently in force, and often government agencies didn't provide for an environmental impact assessment. Mr. Secretary. As Minister of Battery, László Palkovics said that this is nothing but environmentally friendly and not energy friendly. That is why it had to leave, however, a good question, Mr Secretary of State, but it is certain that he has drawn attention to the need to speak honestly; indeed, as you have begun, the extent to which these gigantic factories use our natural resources, our natural resources. The way I see it, you are not open to this honest speech, but are trying to hide by every means the price you want to pay the Hungarian people to lure these polluting, gigantic factories here, who will otherwise sell these batteries not here, but in the richer Western European countries. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2023-03-27-121	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The Member did not accept the State Secretary's reply to the interpellation. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting on Friday. Dear Parliament, Attila Barcza, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Economic Development:, How many jobs have you managed to protect thanks to the government's employment protection measures? It's an address. Congressman Attila Barcza has the floor.
u2023-03-27-122	Dear Secretary of State, After the first anniversary of the outbreak of the war, it is worth making clear to Hungary that it will not change its previous position, which is why the parliamentary resolution proposal tabled by my fellow Members from Fidesz and KDNP, which states that Hungary will remain pro-peace and will continue to stay out of the Russian-Ukrainian war. In the last two months, new sanctions have been announced in Brussels and it has become clear that energy prices do not return to pre-war levels. Brussels sanctions and high energy prices brought inflation, Hungary spent HUF 4000 billion more on energy in 2022 than in 2021. Brussels took this money out of the pocket of Hungarians with sanctions. As long as there is no peace, and as long as the sanctions policy continues, inflation cannot be eliminated, but the government's goal is to get back to one digit by the end of 2023. Energy prices are rising due to sanctions; this increases transport, production and increases food prices, shop prices and service prices. The government has taken ten measures to protect businesses and jobs, including small and medium-sized enterprises active in the energy intensive manufacturing sector. The Széchenyi Card Programme was announced, with HUF 290 billion being spent on Hungarian small businesses' preferential credit programmes in 2023. With a budget of 700 billion, the Baross Gábor reindustrialisation programme is under way, the interest rate stop has been extended to SMEs, the factory rescue programme and the related loan guarantee programmes have been announced and the energy efficiency programmes of the factories are supported. A total of HUF 230 billion will be spent this year to support large companies' energy efficiency programmes, and the Hungarian Development Bank and Eximbank will launch a HUF 200 billion loan programme. We have announced an agricultural loan rate stop for the loans of businesses in agriculture. Tourist action plan has been launched. We have doubled the support for work, which will help 100,000 workers. We also pay labour support to businesses. The government's actions show the difference between the civilian government and the left. On this basis, I ask how many jobs have been protected thanks to the government's measures to protect jobs. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-27-123	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2023-03-27-124	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, The government's primary objective is to maintain employment levels of nearly 4.7 million. In February 2023, according to the data of the Hungarian Central Statistical Office, 4 million 691,000 worked, or 26 thousand more than a year earlier. [[19.20]] The employment rate improved to 74.3% by February 2023. At the time of the change in government in 2010, an increase of 18.1 percentage points was achieved compared to only 56.2 percent. In an international comparison, employment was well below the EU average of 68 percent in 2010, while domestic employment was 59.9%, by 80.5 percent on the third quarter of 2022, well above the EU average of 74.7 percent. According to KSH data, the unemployment rate is currently 4 per cent, which remains extremely positive as the EU unemployment rate is 1.5 times higher. The government's aim is to protect full employment, prevent recession and reduce inflation to one digit by the end of the year, ensure the protection of families, pensioners and small and medium-sized enterprises, even in the economic situation affected by war and sanctions in Brussels. To this end, the government has adopted some twenty measures, ten of which protect businesses and jobs. The data show that the measures work, protect full employment, and even that government measures help create new jobs. In the energy intensive manufacturing industry, mentioned by you, we have announced the support of active small and medium-sized enterprises, which we have paid to 571 companies so far. The measure concerns about 30 thousand people on the basis of available employment data for successful applicants. In the case of the Széchenyi card scheme, the number of employees of the companies concerned is over 800,000, which is about 10,000 for the Széchenyi job retention programme. The factory rescue programme has so far affected 14 businesses and more than 7300 employees. The measures I listed include the Reindustrialisation programme of Gábor Baross, currently with a budget of HUF 1000 billion, with an estimated number of employees of approximately 166,000. The interest rate stop may affect 45,000 businesses. In order to mitigate the effects of the historical drought in 2022, we estimate that more than 2,900 companies have contributed to the protection of more than 29 thousand jobs. The tourism action plan helps some 188 thousand people who live in work, and the support for work helps about 100,000 workers, while the support of businesses has helped about 9 thousand jobseekers to return to the labour market. Ladies and gentlemen, 2023 year of danger: the dangers of war and inflation must be tackled at the same time. The government is also doing everything in the economic situation of war and sanctions to protect families, pensioners and full employment. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-03-27-125	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman if he'll take the answer.
u2023-03-27-126	Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, As you said in your reply, Secretary of State, 4 million 691 thousand people are working in Hungary. I think that this number and the hard work of the people represent the stability of the Hungarian economy. Indeed, it has to be said that during its governance, the left has devastated families and businesses, raised taxes, left behind hundreds of thousands and totaled 200,000 jobs. On the other hand, the civilian government has done everything in its power to protect homes, jobs and families and to increase their standard of living. If anyone is interested in the facts and heard the State Secretary's answer or heard my question, I think he can conclude that, in this difficult situation, in the year of danger, in the crisis that hit Europe, the Hungarian economy is moving in the right direction. I accept your answer. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-03-27-127	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Hajnalka Juhász, representative of KDNP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Culture and Innovation:. How does the Government ensure the protection of families during the current crisis period? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2023-03-27-128	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, For the second year now, we have to live in a world order under the shadow of war, under a radical change: failed sanctions in Brussels, energy crisis, hyperinflationary, and then drifting towards another world war as a result of another failed EU and Member State decision. The goal of the pro-peace Hungary in this currently hopeless situation is to keep our country out of the war, and the decision-makers in Brussels serving global power interests should not have Hungarian people pay the price of the war. We Hungarians believe that, despite the current times of war, we do have a future. And the future is for us families and our children, as they are the pledges and building blocks of our nation's survival. It is therefore very important that, in this exceptional situation, we continue to give priority to them both in their daily livelihoods and in their futures. I think there is no doubt that the civilian government can be relied upon by families in this unprecedented crisis. Even last year's budget for 2023 included the resources needed to protect families, pensions, jobs and reductions, and made it clear that, despite the war and sanctions crisis, the government has given priority to supporting Hungarian families, childbearing and child rearing, as well as protecting our elderly countrymen. These objectives are also reinforced by the current bill before the House, which intends to adapt this year's budget to new changes caused by war and sanctions. In order to break the peak penalty inflation, a total of twenty measures have recently been taken, of which ten are specifically protecting families and pensioners, but ten other measures aimed at protecting jobs and businesses also indirectly help Hungarian families. If we look at traditional forms of family support, we can conclude that since 2010, decisions that support families and encourage childbearing have been ongoing in the spirit of a new family policy of the civilian government that took office at that time. Today, families have many forms of support that can help families at every stage of life, every time they encounter difficulties, from the time before the child's birth to the new home. Today, childbearing and child rearing are no longer a risk of poverty, unlike when left-wing governance ended the family tax system and home-building benefits [[Zsolt Gréczy: Much more children were born then than they are now...]] , frozen pensions, took away the 13th month pension, tripled the price of gas, and took additional austerity measures, the price of which was paid by all Hungarian families. That is why I am asking how the government will ensure the protection of families during the current crisis. Thank you for the honor. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-03-27-129	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Eszter Vitalyos responds to the interpellation, and you have the floor.
u2023-03-27-130	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I agree with you: as a dedicated Member of Christian-Conservative values, we firmly believe that the most important values of our society, the pledges of our future, are nothing more than our children. We believe and confess that every forint we spend on families is an investment in the nation's future. In the past 13 years and in the future, all of our family policy measures consistently serve the goal of not having children more disadvantaged than not being able to have children in Hungary, and we want to contribute to that. To this end, every year we increase the budget for families, which will reach HUF 3357 billion by 2023. Compared to 2010, compared to HUF 960 billion a year by the left-wing government, this amounts to more than three-and-a-half times the amount, and it represents 4.3 percent of GDP without home creation subsidies. [[19.30]] Allow me to quote the Prime Minister: "We will not give up our boldest plan to make families with children better than those who do not have children. This is why every year we are committed to making new family-support decisions, as is the case this year, that women who have children do not pay personal income tax until they are 30 years old, and that we have allowed them to fully waive student loans when the first baby arrives. Several elements of the family protection action plan and the home creation programme ending at the end of 2022, such as baby shower support, village CSOK construction or tax refund support, were extended until 31 December 2024. We have reformed the system of paternity leave, and from 1 January 2023 ten working days have been granted paternity leave for working fathers in the event of the birth or adoption of their children. In addition, the worker's child may apply for part-time or teleworking employment until the age of eight. Measures have also been taken for families with persistently ill and severely disabled children: from 1 January 2023 there will be 10 thousand forints plus family tax breaks for children with higher family allowances and family benefits. We are also developing the institutional framework for childbearing, so that mothers who are forced to return to the world of work can do so because they have daycare. Compared to 2010, there has been an increase of more than 85 percent in the number of beds providing nursery care, and now there are three times as many settlements as in 2010. At present, nearly 10,000 new crèches are being expanded. I am pleased to think that more than 30 government measures are now helping families, and because of the time limit, I would not go into this detailed discussion, but I would also like to point out to the congresswoman and to all my fellow Members the website of the Family Friendly Hungary Centre, where they can find out about all this in detail. I sincerely believe that our measures clearly indicate to all Hungarians that we are protecting families even if the economic situation is just as difficult as it is now. The Hungarian families are the first for the government, since the future [[The president's ringing the bell.]] written by Hungarian families. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zsolt Gréczy: Never so few Hungarian children were born as last year! It's real!]]
u2023-03-27-131	I thank the Secretary of State for her reply. I ask the congresswoman, she accepts the Secretary of State's answer.
u2023-03-27-132	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you very much for your detailed reply. Indeed, we are living in an age of danger, there is a very difficult war situation, and it is very important that Hungarian families feel safe and that we can continue the family support model that the civilian government started in 2010 in such a difficult economic situation. And personally, I am very proud that my unborn child arrives in a country with such a wonderful family support system. Thank you very much for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zsolt Gréczy: Oh, my God! 1952!]]
u2023-03-27-133	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The congresswoman accepted the Secretary of State's reply, Mr. Congressman, whatever comments she made. I would be very honored if you wouldn't comment on this when the congresswoman talks. Now's your chance. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Andrea Hegedüs, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. Why don't you pay the teachers from the Hungarian budget? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2023-03-27-134	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to remind you that the salary of a beginner educator is around 260,000 HUF net, and if he stays on the track for 40 years and takes a few exams, this may rise to over 360,000 HUF by the age of 60. 360,000 forints! You can see that it is very difficult to make a living with this kind of money because of inflation in Orbán and the increase in overhead. After the teachers have had enough of this and raised their voices, you have been told that the wages will be paid from EU funds, with the money that the European Commission has suspended from government corruption and promised to be here on 1 January. We haven't seen a cent of this since. If we look around Europe, we can see that starting wages are twice as much as what we now have a teacher with ten years of work experience. Why should the European Union raise teachers' salaries at our place? The Italians, the Austrians, the Germans, the French were able to solve it, you are unable to do so, you are unable to govern it. You keep pointing back and blaming Brussels. But it's not true that there's no money, it's enough to think that they've made a $660 billion Vodafone deal, or we can think of the 204 billion athletic world. Even the Lebanese temples had a few billion. So there is money for everything but one thing: the lives of Hungarian people. So I'll ask the Secretary of State when the teacher's salary is due. If EU money doesn't come, and there's an increasing chance of that, won't they increase teachers' wages? Why can't the government solve this from its own budget when there's obviously money for everything else? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2023-03-27-135	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. Here you go.
u2023-03-27-136	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, We can talk about who has managed to raise wages among teachers in the last 30-33 years, but it is not possible to open a debate about it, because it is quite clear which government was the only government to lower wages among Hungarian teachers when there was an economic difficulty, and most of it was caused by the then Gyurcsány government, and therefore the price had to be paid by Hungarian teachers, since they had been paid a month's wages when the 13th month's wages were taken away. It was still a crisis management, there is still a crisis management, we are dealing with this crisis by raising wages, and you have treated it with wage cuts, institution closure and the dismissal of 15,000 teachers, and we are, on the other hand, seeking to increase wages. We were still members of the European Union, there were European Union funds then, but you took away budgetary resources from the Hungarian teachers and did not replace it from either EU or other sources. So, honourable Member, that you can pay, who can give more to teachers, we would not ask you for a prescription on this, because you only showed us how to take it from them, and who was then Secretary of State, is now one of your shadow ministers. On the other hand, we are preparing to really raise the salaries of teachers by at least 75% in three years. In the coming years, nearly HUF 800 billion of EU funds and HUF 5600 billion of budget resources will be used to raise the wages of teachers. We are paying a much larger proportion of teacher's wages from budgetary sources than from EU sources, the whole of the scheduling issue is that we started with a 10 per cent increase in the budget for the first time, and we would like to increase it more than double in EU funds this year retroactively by 1 January, and in the following year we could advance a 10 per cent part of the budget, but we hope that EU funds will come, and then we can have a larger amount of at least 25 per cent. Thus, in three years, a 75 percent increase in teachers' wages can be made, and this does not end three years ago, because after the third year, the fourth year, in the fifth year, as wages rise, teachers' wages would continue to rise until 2030, and the government guaranteed this last July. We regret that the Union has not yet paid a penny for this, and we regret that DK has voted against any proposal in Parliament in recent months that would have helped us on the road to the EU agreement, and you have prevented it, and if we agree, there will be an additional resource, honourable Member. At the same time, you are getting a taste... yeah, and let me add that you are talking about corruption in relation to the wage increase of Hungarian teachers. How are we supposed to talk about corruption? ! What do you think is corruption in raising the wages of Hungarian teachers by 75%? So, at the end of the week, we got a taste of how the dollar left is worn in relation to Hungarian schools and Hungarian students. The National Student Parlament was in place, and there was a,, Gunsa, header, and don't leave it, they wanted a strictly confidential document between the students, it was a clear propaganda material for the left, there were instructions in it, when to yell in, when to whistle, how to sit down, sit down so that they would be scattered, listen to the views of the people in their surroundings, whether they were in favour of the government or against it, and then their leaders had to send out the names of the people they were sitting next to in the Student Parlament, so I quote the experts working in the background could trace them, so that you would have listed the participants of the Student Parlament, and if there was anything they thought was objectionable, there was the name, telephone number, e-mail address of a USD-media journalist, that you would have to indicate them right away. [[19.40]] Now, this is how you think on the dollar left about Hungarian education, turning children and schools into political battlefields. We will protect this, and we will not reduce the wages of teachers like you, but we will increase it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-27-137	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll take the answer.
u2023-03-27-138	No, I can't accept the answer. I would like to add this, however, that the last 50 percent wage increase was granted to teachers in 2002 at the time of the left-wing government, and this salary increase is not in three years' time, but now and immediately. You don't have to tell me three years from now, a year from now, six months from now, how much you intend to drip, ten percent like this. Now we need wages for teachers, they need to buy food now, and now we have to pay the rent. So they still do not plan to give decent pay to teachers, they do not consider it important to pay those who teach the future generation. Although it's true what I'd spend that money on other than food and overhead. Not to mention the lack of a teacher, since teachers work much more than 40 hours a week, so they have little time for anything else. Teachers should be given a 45 percent wage increase immediately before a larger, more chaotic situation emerges.
u2023-03-27-139	Thank you very much, Congresswoman, you've only had one minute.
u2023-03-27-140	You're incapable of steering, but we're prepared for it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2023-03-27-141	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Deputy Minister's reply. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting on Friday. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Balassa, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Defence:. Does the Government support the demands of the Jobbik-Conservatives that the Russians should leave Ukraine? It's an address. Congressman Péter Balassa has the floor.
u2023-03-27-142	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I'm sorry Mr. Secretary isn't here personally. On 13 March 2023, he made an irresponsible declaration, which sounded like this: "The West wants to bring everyone into the war, and today in Europe we are at the point of almost running out of peace camp and everyone is preparing for war. Except us Hungarians. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I would like to say to the Minister of Defence that everyone wants peace, everyone wants peace in this Chamber, within the walls of Parliament, outside the walls of Parliament and throughout Europe; and only Europe can guarantee the security of Hungary. It is a regrettable fact and a regrettable fact that you, the Fidesz Propaganda, are using this for internal political gain, because you are using the Russian-Ukrainian resolution proposal for nothing but domestic political gain. If you really wanted peace, you would have voted in favour of Jobbik's amendment, which means fair peace. Fair peace is literally this:. The Hungarian Parliament calls on the Government to stand up for a lasting and just peace ensuring the security of Hungarian citizens, in line with the resolution of the UN General Assembly and the Vatican position. To this end, call on Russia in Putin to immediately withdraw its troops from Ukraine because its aggressive attack caused the war. Of course, you voted against it. [[Bence Rétvári: This is the first point!]] Thus, the government's proposal can also result in a new iron curtain descending on Hungary and Hungarians being allowed to enter the eastern side. In the above-mentioned interview, and I am sorry that Minister is not here in vain, they asked that the Hungarian government could accept Russian troops remaining in Ukraine. He did not reveal his official position on this matter. In our view, the basic condition of peace is that the Russians leave Ukraine. I respectfully ask Minister, Mr Secretary of State, what is the position of the Hungarian Government on maintaining Russian troops in Ukraine and supporting the demands of the Jobbik-Conservatives that the Russians should leave Ukraine. Yes or no? Thank you for your reply. [[Applause from Jobbik and DK.]]
u2023-03-27-143	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Tamás Vargha, State Secretary, responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2023-03-27-144	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, There has been a war between Russia and Ukraine for over a year, and there is no sign that there will be peace in a short time. We have repeatedly said that we Hungarians wish for peace, we want peace, most countries in the world want peace, but in Europe we see no signs of that. Therefore, the Hungarian government's position is clear: an immediate ceasefire and the opening of peace talks are necessary, because it is the only way to save lives. This is also reflected in the pro-peace resolution proposal submitted to the Parliament, which our political alliance has submitted. We are on the side of peace, and we want to stay out of the Russian-Ukrainian war in the future; we have not sent any weapons or soldiers to Ukraine. We have said many times that, of course, we condemn Russia's aggression. On the other hand, we see that the European Parliament is demanding further arms shipments, and the Hungarian left made it clear before the war broke out that they want to send weapons and soldiers into this war. Today, who is on the side of the war, who supports further sanctions and arms transfers, risks the outbreak of the Third World War and goes completely against the interests of Hungary. The Hungarian government will continue to assist Ukraine's refugees in all possible ways within the framework of the largest humanitarian aid action. As a representative of the Parliament of Székesfehérvár, I would like to tell you that in Székesfehérvár many Ukrainian and Transcarpathian Hungarians live and work, many of whom came not as refugees, but before the outbreak of the war, took jobs, live life in our city and are respected members of our community. So Székesfehérvár helped to reunite the refugees who arrived here. They're safe here in Székesfehérvár, and they can count on our community. I would also like to point out that we are a committed member of both the NATO Alliance and the European Union, and as a full member and sovereign state Hungary is doing everything it can to ensure peace. We see that the sanctions have not worked and have even made the situation in Europe worse. The burden of faulty Brussels decisions is felt by all European families. The left still fully supports the sanctions that are causing the energy crisis in Brussels, even though their position as pro-war and sanctions is not popular with opposition voters. Then there is only one question left: does Jobbik support and vote in favour of the pro-peace resolution? Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Putin pro-proposal, correct! It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-03-27-145	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2023-03-27-146	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I can't accept your answer. To this day, the Minister of Defense has not withdrawn his irresponsible statement. We already know what kind of businessman the Secretary of Defense is, but not what kind of minister he is. I believe that a defense minister should be able to exert authority and tranquility in this country, and not create alarm and internal tension with his irresponsible statements, so I cannot accept his answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause for DK and Jobbik.]]
u2023-03-27-147	The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting on Friday. Dear Parliament, István Szabadi, representative of Mi Hazank, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Energy:. Where is the HUF 181 thousand monthly allowance? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-03-27-148	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear House, In government communication, since July last year, they have been saying that families receive a monthly discount of HUF 181 thousand through their overhead support. I would like to highlight what 181 thousand forints is. The amount of the discount was calculated by subtracting the average consumption of both gas and electricity from the real market price, which is HUF 203 434 per month, and HUF 22 257 per month. On 21 July 2022, a real market price was set for electricity at HUF 268.9 per kilowatt and for gas at HUF 1020 per cubic metre, which the government's calculation has not changed since then. Last September, Prime Minister admitted that the price of the gas contract with the Russians was adjusted to the prices of the Dutch TTF gas exchange. In the case of natural gas, this price is HUF 1020 per cubic metre, which is EUR 232 per megawatt hour, calculated at HUF 400 per euro; only at this height, the prices of the Dutch gas exchange were only three weeks between 16 August and 6 September last year, either before or after that level. The TTF listings peaked in August last year when EUR 347 per megawattor was charged for gas. [[19.50]] In view of the fact that Europe's gas storage facilities have been full in the meantime and the weather has improved, the price of gas has dropped dramatically from September; from March this year, it is only under EUR 50 per megawatt. In other words, the world market price is HUF 211 per cubic meter. It can therefore be stated that the so-called molecular price, which remains after VAT and system usage charges, of the retail market price of HUF 767 per cubic metre, has consistently exceeded the stock exchange price since mid-December 547 forints per cubic metre. The government purchased 700 million cubic metres of so-called special natural gas instead of last February in July when the price was high, at a price above 1000 HUF per cubic metre. That was a huge mistake. During the heating season, while they tried to get rid of the expensive natural gas supply and to have the people, institutions and entrepreneurs pay for it, while other countries in the European Union did not dispose of the storage tanks in charge of the 2023 storage period, but purchased the natural gas from the cheap market, 60 percent of the daily consumption in our country came from these containers. The Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office fixed retail market prices until 30 April 2023. Please respond to plans to reduce retail market prices in line with low world market prices as of May. In addition, I would like a clear response to the fact that there is an intermediary company incorporated between Gazprom and MVM in carrying out the purchase of Russian gas. Thank you very much.
u2023-03-27-149	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Zsófia Koncz, who responds to the interpellation.
u2023-03-27-150	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I think that we agree, or I hope that we agree, that despite the energy crisis in Europe, we have managed to maintain the reduction of the rent that has been in place since 2013 and which is very helpful to Hungarian people. For ten years, our country has spent one of the most to keep retail costs low in Europe. Despite the international energy crisis, Hungary spent almost 6 percent of its GDP on public health protection in 2022, making it the fourth place in the EU ranking. If there were no reduction in the rent, hundreds of thousands or millions of Hungarians would have been ruined, families because they could not afford to pay for the energy prices that have skyrocketed. We didn't stand by and watch the extra pro. The government hijacked the extra profit for energy companies, banks and commercial multinationals, and created the Rezségvédelmi Fund, which increased its amount to HUF 2600 billion. From this until the end of 2023 we will be able to maintain the reduction in household rents to the extent of average consumption, in Hungarian: the reduced gas, electricity and district heat prices will remain unchanged throughout the year. However, large family members, condominiums, multigenerational family houses, gas-price reductions for state or local government-owned rentals and electricity relief for those using electrical medical devices remain in place. According to the MVM, 65 percent of the public electricity bills issued from August to February and 80 percent of the gas accounts contained only residuated items, i.e. a significant number of retail users, on average three-quarters did not exceed average consumption values. In addition to supporting retail consumers, the government allowed individual state, municipal and ecclesiastical institutions and foundation universities to switch from previous variable price contracts to fixed prices. Since the beginning of March, more than 1100 applications have been accepted, and a total of 8400 places of consumption can benefit from fixed-price gas services until the beginning of the next gas year, until the end of September. The government also extended this to the power supply, with 1,200 right holders getting power from 1 April to the end of the year at new fixed prices in more than 20,000 places of consumption. Based on the international price comparison statistics published last week by the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, domestic electricity and gas prices remained Europe's best value for consumers in February. Some examples are: more than double the electricity in Bratislava and Warsaw, four times in Prague, more than five times the Hungarian price reduced in Rome, London, Berlin and Dublin. In the case of natural gas, these differences are even greater: in Zagreb, Bratislava, Bucharest and Warsaw more than double, in Vilnius and Tallinn three times, in Sofia and Ljubljana four times, in Prague six times, in Amsterdam seven times, in Rome and Vienna eight times, in Stockholm twelve times the retail consumer had to pay. According to the Austrian energy agency, for example, the price of energy in Austria increased by 12.8 percent in January compared to the previous month. Honourable Congressman, The government is doing everything in its power not to involve Hungary in the war and not to pay the price of it to Hungarian people. I would also like to ask for the support of the Member and his group on this policy. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-03-27-151	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2023-03-27-152	Dear Secretary of State, I cannot accept your answer because, on the one hand, I have not received an answer to my questions and, on the other hand, the introduction of the intermediary company is not unprecedented in the procurement of gas. In the case of the old Russian gas contract, the sale of natural gas was established by MOL and Gazprom in 1994 by Panrus Gáz Zrt. It was completed by a company that sold 4.2 billion cubic metres of gas even in 2020. It concluded its activities on 1 October 2021 after the signing of the new Russian gas contract and ended on 1 January 2022 without successor. According to KSH data, Russian gas was purchased in 2022 by 7-8 percent more expensive than the prices of the Dutch gas exchange, even taking into account the delay in time. Hungarian families therefore have the right to know that there is an unnecessary price-expensive factor in the gas contract, because they can buy it extremely expensively. Thank you very much.
u2023-03-27-153	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting on Friday. Dear Parliament, Károly Kontrát, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. How can we defend ourselves against increasing migratory pressure? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-03-27-154	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, We were able to listen to the report by the Ministry of Interior on the extension of the crisis caused by mass immigration in the Committee on Defence and Police. Unfortunately, we were once again convinced that the migratory pressure on the southern border of Hungary is increasing. While 46 179 people attempted illegal border crossings in the south in 2020, this figure was 122 239 in 2021 and 269 254 in the last year. In parallel, 46 asylum applications were submitted in 2022 by those wishing to enter Hungary. It is clear that Western Europe is the goal, not our country. In the West, they are beginning to realise what Prime Minister said in the middle of the previous decade: we need not an unlimited Willkommenkultur, but strict immigration rules and border protection in Europe. At the last EU summit, it was decided to increase the funds for border protection, and the President of the European Commission would try to reform the EU asylum system with a duplicate effort, but the question is that it is not too late for this upheaval. The migration engine has become a smuggling operation by criminal organizations that are now almost industrialized, and the supply of the southern border of Hungary extends from organized, group border attacks, sometimes armed, to car or truck smuggling. Do you remember the M5 highway shooters, cops and civilians who were in danger of their lives? Nearly 50 illegal migrants were transported on their trucks, from whom they collected more than 40 million forints of currency for the later failed smuggling of human beings. Hungary has taken action on time, we have strengthened our borders and we are pursuing a strong anti-migration policy. However, until Western Europe has taken more decisive steps to address the causes of illegal immigration, we cannot expect to see migration pressure eased. I ask Mr. Secretary of State: how is our southern border protection, can the country be adequately protected by police forces reinforced by border hunters? [[20.00]] What steps will the government take to curb human trafficking? Can we expect any assistance from the European Union in the field of border protection in a changing political environment? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2023-03-27-155	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2023-03-27-156	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, If we are looking for an international place in Hungary, where we can meet citizens from at least 73 countries in a relatively narrow environment, then these Hungarian prisons, where 73 countries are smuggling people or filling their sentences, or waiting to be judged, are indeed a huge business of smuggling people, and organised criminal networks are very interested in this. Now more often than every ninth bunk in Hungarian prisons, there are smugglers. It's a big deal. When many 20 migrants were detained on the M5 which the smugglers tried to protect even with gunshots, well, the value of the transport paid for by these double-crossed, cheated people to smugglers was 41 million forints to smuggle them to Europe. I do not know what profitability one or another of the branches of organised crime, drug smuggling, arms smuggling or anything else, but in any case, they see a huge deal in human trafficking, and today, unfortunately, in Europe, smugglers decide who will be a European resident and who will not. The European Union is unable to prevent a mass of smugglers from bringing these people into Europe illegally. They are also somewhat deceived in their own country because they promise that there is a high income without work, housing, even car, health care. Many people fall for it, many people are probably willing to do so, and they are moving towards Europe. They pay huge amounts, millions of dollars to get one person to Europe, and the European authorities are completely unable to do anything. They have simply given up or are unfit to influence who will live and who will not in Europe. Hungary is not one of these countries. We are protecting our borders, we have blocked 270 thousand illegal attempts at border crossings in the previous year, and we will continue to do so this year, because we do want to decide who we live with and who we do not want to live with. But the EU has simply given this license to smugglers, and in most parts of the EU's territory it is already the smugglers who decide that the French, the Swedishs, the Spanish there, or the newly established residents, whether from Africa or Asia, will live in the suburbs of large cities. We cannot agree with this, we want to maintain the rights for ourselves so that we, Hungary, the Hungarian people, can decide on this, and the Hungarian police, the Hungarian border hunters, can defend the Hungarian southern border, and we are effective. According to the EU's own statements, not only can it not prevent access, because smugglers bring in anyone they think they are, but also tested inadequately in expulsion, as Eurostat is also able to carry out one out of ten immigrants who have been sentenced to expulsion in its own statements because they came to the Union illegally and in principle they would not be entitled to stay here, one out of ten decisions and nine cannot be carried out. When the planes go back and get a subpoena from 100 to 120 people, the plane goes back with 8 people, and the rest of the space stays empty because of the effectiveness of expulsion within the European Union, and we don't know how many times these people try to get in again and again. Hungary has taken a clear position. We do not accept illegal migration and we also require all other EU Member States and Brussels to respect this position. Unfortunately, in previous years we have seen Brussels launch procedures, the other countries have tried to stigmatize Hungary, and the Hungarian left is a dollar left, so, of course, it dances as these forces whistle, and if it had been up to them, they wouldn't have built the fence long ago, or they would have opened such wide gates that anyone could have walked through. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-03-27-157	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll ask the congressman if he'll take the answer.
u2023-03-27-158	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Today, security is the most important community value, and the safety of Hungary, the security of the Hungarian people, is largely determined by the protection of the southern border. I thank the Government of Hungary, the Ministry of Interior and police personnel and border fighters for their efforts to ensure the safety of the Hungarian people and Hungary. I am also pleased that decisive action against trafficking in human beings, which forms part of the strengthening of legislation and the protection of the southern borders, is effective; and I hope that we can count on the strong action of police, police personnel and border fighters both for illegal migrants and for smugglers for the future. Secretary of State, thank you for your answer, I accept. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-03-27-159	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The Member accepted the reply of the Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the interpellation negotiations, and we are now continuing our work with immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Kálmán Olga, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What do you know? It's an address. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the head of the DK Group said in advance that he would ask for a personal reply, so that, due to his absence, Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the next immediate questions. It is now up to DK's next representative to ask the question. László Sebian-Petrovszki, as a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister for Economic Development an immediate question:. What are they up to? It's an address. Because of Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. János Fónagy was entitled to reply. I ask the congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[On the signal of László Sebian-Petrovski:]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-03-27-160	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secretary of State, your government has provided a unique performance in Europe, because while the prices of some basic food have been frozen, despite this price stop, it has not seen since the Rákosi era, and they have released some 50 percent food price increases on Hungary. And now we are at the point that Minister Gergely Gulyás didn't even dare to talk about what would happen after 30 April, i.e. when the Orbán government put an end to the price stops under the legislation in force. It's quite frightening to think that if you've managed to get 50 percent food-expensive with price-stops, what will happen in this country without price-stops, but we've heard no plan, no solution from the government, that's all, your science has stopped here. They have not yet had a sound idea of how to pull Hungary out of the deadly embrace of inflation in Orbán, and now we have heard nothing more from you; it seems that after 30 April this solution will be permanently renounced. The seven-time increase has punished not only Hungarian people, but also agriculture and the food industry, and you know it. There are two ways to do this. One is that a declining price of gas and electricity on the world market has been introduced for months, for example, for businesses, but you are not reducing the costs for businesses, and therefore they cannot reduce the price of their products. The other option could be to reduce VAT, even to apply a reduced VAT to all basic foods, so that at least people would not profit from poverty, but your government has not been willing to do so. So I ask Mr Secretary of State: what are they up to after the launch of the pricestops on 30 April? How will inflation in Orbán be stopped? Why not do something to break food prices? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2023-03-27-161	Thank you. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2023-03-27-162	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for your question, because it gives me the opportunity to repeat what we said several times during today and the previous days, weeks and months. Basically, the inflation situation in Europe and the inflation situation in Hungary, and I believe that you do not dispute this at all because of the Russian-Ukrainian war, with reference to the Russian-Ukrainian war, is caused by a sanctions policy in Brussels, resulting in real inflationary phenomena in Europe, Central Europe and Hungary. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: We argue!]] I'd argue with respect, but I don't want to, because I've had 40 years compared to you, and I've lived better to see how much the price increase was. [[20.10]] But I do not dispute that today's inflation price increase is very significant compared to recent years. The government has done everything in its power to do what can be done domestically. We cannot influence the sanctions policy in Brussels, we cannot fundamentally prevent the Ukrainian-Russian war, so we have the domestic economic measures that we have taken for the benefit of both people, families and businesses. You mentioned two options, we have heard both of them several times over the past period, and we have tried every time to prove that these are not possible solutions. The reduction of VAT is basically and we really have historical experience in trade, so it is not for consumers to get it, and for energy prices, it is a very attractive thing to reduce it when prices are cheaper on the world market, just please, there is another tendency to increase it when they increase it. This is how we strive to develop energy prices so that it can be tolerated both for families and for the economy. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-03-27-163	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2023-03-27-164	Thank you very much. But yes, Mr Secretary of State, we are debating the view that inflation in Hungary is caused by EU sanctions on the one hand, because sanctions are effective throughout Europe, yet there is extra high inflation, and we are debating it... and inflation is lower in the neighbouring countries, and even the EU average was around 18%, which is very far from 50 percent of food inflation in Hungary. So that's not what's causing it, we've told you several times. And the other is that I understand that the government does not want to cut VAT, whether it wants to drive through basic food or lower energy prices in businesses. I am pleased to tell you, as you have said, you have heard that DK and the shadow government, Klára Dobrev's shadow government, will do so. It's in our program. We consider both to be very powerful and good tools. We think that both would help people, so we continue to fight for it. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2023-03-27-165	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2023-03-27-166	Thank you. I don't want to live with the cheap answer that old sins have long shadows... [[Deterioration from the pro-government benches.]] [[Deterioration from the pro-government benches.]] Shadow and accordingly (Development from the pro-government benches.) The shadow government, too; but the answer would be cheap, not that I want to live with. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: Run for it again, Mr. Secretary of State.]] I trust that you will not be given the opportunity to try this, and I trust that our solution will bring lasting results, and that we will have the lasting opportunity to try these solutions and continue to apply them in practice. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-03-27-167	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Dávid Bedő, Ferenc Gelencsér, Szabolcs Szabó and Márton Tompos, representatives of the Momentum, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question. It's an address. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the head of the Momentum Group has informed me in advance that he is asking for a personal reply, so the Prime Minister must respond in the next hour of immediate questions due to his absence. We now have a representative of the Momentum fraction who would like to ask the next question. Dear Parliament, Dávid Bedő, representative of the Momentum, wishes to ask the Minister of Construction and Transport an immediate question:. Please respond, Minister. It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Nándor Csepreghy has given him the right to reply. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-03-27-168	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. Secretary, I have a very simple question for you: what happened to all those promises? Before the elections, new investments, road renovations, infrastructure projects were announced all over the country, but since then they seem to have been forgotten. Of course, people didn't forget, but I'm sure you did, because most of your promises didn't have one more cut. Allow me to show you, through an area of the country, how you do not deal with basic needs. The Pilis-Dunakanyar is one of the most beautiful parts of our country, located just north of our capital, and over 100,000 people live here. The everyday life of our compatriots living here is bewildered by the outdated transport infrastructure. Before the elections, they promised to win it, but it's been quiet ever since. What about renovating Highway 11? What about the modernisation of the Szentendre HÉV line and fleet? What about building the Budakalas bypass? What about connecting roads 10 and 11, or what about the bike bridge we promised between Dunabogdány and Kisorosi? These are just a few examples that show how much they have forgotten one of their most important tasks, the development of infrastructure. Obviously, you will tell me, as many of you have already said, that unfortunately there is no money, but as soon as there is, then. He will say that war, sanctions and Brussels will not allow these investments to take place, which will affect and help people's everyday lives. But I ask you, if there really is no money for these investments all over the country, then why is there money to support Chinese companies with hundreds of billions of dollars? Why is there money to buy a telecommunications company for hundreds of billions? Why is there still money to fill the lying public media? Mr. Secretary, what happened to all those promises? Thank you.
u2023-03-27-169	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We expect an answer from Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy. You have the floor.
u2023-03-27-170	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for the opportunity to say that the voters of the region made the right decision last year, because they elected an excellent representative in the person of Eszter Vitalyos, who also represents the interests of the people in the Danube bend, as he did when he lobbyed the government and the government decided to support the development of the HÉV when he lobbied for the development of Highway 11. And yes, Congressman, we really need to talk about the issue of war, because the war itself is a serious problem, but the length and economic consequences of this, supported by your party and comrades, result in sanctions from Brussels that relatively narrow Hungary's margin of manoeuvre in financial terms. However, in this financial situation, we can build more than you could ever imagine, because if we remember correctly, the construction of Momentum has little to do with your name, there is only one thing you can write on your political list of achievements, the abolition of an Olympic dream, and destruction. I would like to confirm to Mr Orbán that the Hungarian Government has fulfilled all its commitments since 2010, and that the government, which was led by Viktor Orbán, has been given a two-thirds mandate for a quarter, and this will also be the case with regard to previously defined developments. There is no doubt that a situation that leads to a narrow period of resources will also give us the opportunity to rethink and prioritise these developments in technical terms, as the Ministry of Construction and Transport was created precisely to build more of the less, and, as the government has promised, the congresswoman sitting next to me has lobbied it, and will achieve that the development of HÉV will take place in the next development period, not only in terms of the trails to the north, but also in terms of the development of all HÉV lines to Budapest, as well as in terms of lines and vehicle stock. Mr Congressman, I think that, given your age and your political background, you can only learn development policy from this government. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-03-27-171	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. In return, I'll give the floor to the congressman in a minute.
u2023-03-27-172	If you don't mind, Mr. Secretary, I'll decide who I want to learn from and who I don't want to learn from. As it could be predicted, it points to sanctions and wars as usual, but let us be clear, although this is not the primary issue of this issue, the only reason why this country currently has 25 per cent inflation and 400 forints is your misguided economic policy. It is not the sanctions that you voted for, as we know, but because before the elections the money was spent with two hands, and they have not been able to control this current crisis. It wasn't the wars, it wasn't the sanctions, it was your economic policy alone. As I said in my first speech, I just wanted to point out that there is money for everything in your government. There's money for Vodafone, there's money for Chinese companies, there's no money for basic infrastructure investments. They tell us they're gonna reach him, and they're gonna launch him, and we've been listening to this for over a year. But when? When are we gonna see these, tangible investments? Thank you. [[A round of applause from the dialogue.]]
u2023-03-27-173	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. There you go. You have the floor. [[20.20]]
u2023-03-27-174	Honourable Congressman, We are in a lucky position to lead this country in its fourth term, Viktor Orbán and his government, and in these last four elections, people have shown one thing that I want to entrust to mercenaries the representation of the country's fate or patriots; people who build this country, or people who talk, refuse to learn, and apparently have to bear the political consequences. I suggest that you take into account the self-defense behavior of your former party president, and perhaps follow his example, since he refuses to learn from others who have proved himself. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-27-175	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Dezső Believing, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question: "Is this all right? It's an address. Minister Balázs Fürjes, State Secretary, was entitled to reply because of his absence. I ask you to accept the response or to ask for the answer in person.
u2023-03-27-176	I'll take it.
u2023-03-27-177	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-03-27-178	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Deputy Minister, I'm sure you're familiar with the mass disaster on the M1 highway. There, unfortunately, human lives were also claimed by the dust storm caused by an emergency. I would now like to talk about an artificially produced emergency that occurred in the heart of the capital city on the Váci Road on 6 March. As a result of an unprofessional demolition of a building, there was a cloud of dust so large that traffic on the Váci road had become life-threatening in two to four lanes. The person who lived through the scene was no exaggeration to say that he felt in Bahmut: the earth was shaking, the noise was terrible, and there was so much dust that we couldn't see. No one knew what was happening. There was no prior notice, no awareness raising and no possibility of preparation. Why was it hidden during the planned demolition what, when and how they would do it? So the people in the area weren't safe. The question arises: is the construction and building supervision system established within government offices suitable for the safe management of construction sites? In any case, in this case, we didn't see their specialists in the area. Local government bodies and officials who had been deprived of the substantive possibilities for action were present and acted quickly. Maybe that's why it didn't turn into a tragedy. But where were the authorities' men? I'm sure some of the people who work for the authority can handle IV, V, VI, VII, VIII, IX. and XIII. Safe surveillance of construction in the district? [[Applause in the lines of Dialogue, Momentum, DK and Jobbik.]]
u2023-03-27-179	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State Balázs Fürjes. Here you go.
u2023-03-27-180	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Honestly, I'm a little surprised. Congressman, you know exactly what I'm talking about. We have been able to do so personally in Angelland, XIII. in a major construction case in the district, together with Mayor József Tóth, which, I think, was a joint success of the Angelland and the government, and we were able to increase the cooperation of Angyalföld, Budapest. I'm a little surprised that you're an anti-government man trying to take me to a question where I don't think it's worth looking for. Undoubtedly, and I have the heart to admit that the municipality has done its job, but the fact is that the government office has also done its job. At the time of the breakdown of the Medicor building, the Government Office's building inspection authority stopped the unprofessional and unauthorized construction work, the demolition and prohibited the continuation of the work until further construction control measures were taken. So I think that the rule of law and the professional administration work. There is no government in the world that can achieve that no contractor ever violates the rules and never does irregular construction or demolition work. One thing a professional and well-functioning government can do is that the professional public administration immediately takes action. It also introduced the most serious measure when it stopped demolition work with immediate effect. I wish everyone in this country would do their job. I am surprised that the Member is looking for a mistake here, where, at the sign of the municipality, we have witnessed an immediate and correct government action. We will act most rigorously against everyone who violates the law and endangers the safety of citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-27-181	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2023-03-27-182	Thank you very much. Mr Deputy Minister, the lessons of this story must be learned. It wasn't going the right way. It was on the 6th, it was shut down on the 8th, even though this situation occurred in an hour. Construction can depend on a dangerous plant, people's lives, and enormous wealth, so rules and regular presence are needed for our account. In my view, today's system is incompetent. In this system, disaster is almost encoded. It's only a matter of time before the tragedy occurs. That is why I propose that the established system and the actors be rethought. Not you, but the minister who oversees the government offices is the main character in this, and that is a huge responsibility. [[Applause in the lines of Dialogue, Momentum, DK and Jobbik.]]
u2023-03-27-183	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2023-03-27-184	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We're usually accused of a lot of things, but the accusation of jumping away from responsibility, we don't even get it from our most critical opponents. That's not gonna happen next time. What I'd like to say is that it's very important, and we're not the only two people in this room who know exactly what this is about. You are the representative of that district, and I am indeed the Deputy Minister for Government Administrations. There was no damage in human life to the citizens' property, thank God it wasn't damaged because the government department immediately stopped this construction. Colleagues have done the right thing, and I stress that in the future everyone in Budapest and in the countryside must follow the strictest environmental and other rules, and the authorities will continue to enforce these rules in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-27-185	I thank the Deputy Minister for his reply and for his work. Dear Parliament, Brenner Koloman and László György Lukács, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Prime Minister? It's an address. I inform the Honourable Parliament, the leader of the Jobbik faction has informed me in advance that he is asking for a personal reply, so he has to answer in the hour of the next immediate questions due to Mr. Prime Minister's absence. We now have a representative of the Jobbik faction who would like to ask the next question. Dear Parliament, Ander Balázs and László György Lukács, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question. It's an address. Due to Mr. Minister's absence, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I would like to ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister for his answer personally.
u2023-03-27-186	Mr President, With this question, I'd like to await the Minister's personal presence. Thank you very much.
u2023-03-27-187	I would like to inform you, Mr President, that the Minister must answer at the hour of the next immediate questions. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: "What do you think of this, Minister? It's an address. Due to Mr. Minister's absence, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I ask you to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister himself for an answer.
u2023-03-27-188	I'll take it.
u2023-03-27-189	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-03-27-190	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, It seems that the Orbán government has started a health reform on the basis of an encrypted document of hundreds of millions of forints. This is the reform on which the Fidesz faction leader also said that this is a left-wing proposal. The reform appears to be governed by the Ministry of Interior based on Boston Consulting Group's ten-year secret document, and it can already be said that this reform is essentially failing and is causing serious damage to residents. But to give examples: Obstetrics in Mosonmagyaróvár regrets the reform, Ajka is stumbled by emergency care, and Mohács's hospital is in trouble. Meanwhile, there is a transformation of the GP's on-call system. Ladies and gentlemen, some 200 GPs are being closed, and specialized clinics are being nationalised so that there is more to be destroyed. Of course, during this spectacular health policy disintegration, the government also found time to attack the Hungarian Medical Chamber, risking bringing EU money home. What else could be the purpose of such an attack, conducted in 24 hours, than for the government to start another war against the European Community because of the lack of money. [[20.30]] This is also in the interests of the Prime Minister, because he is preparing to lead our country out of the European Union, even though, based on the experience of recent years, we all know that our security is Europe. Overall, it can be seen that the reform experiment fails, which is dangerous in itself. Therefore, the public has the right to know what further cuts you are planning to make in the name of reform, what you are preparing for, and where you should expect to lose benefits. In view of all this, the politicians of Jobbik-Conservatives are asking the Ministry of Interior to disclose the plan received from Boston Consulting, which costs taxpayers HUF 277 million. So when will the encrypted plan for failed reform, which cost HUF 277 million, be lifted? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It was included in the reform package that there were 200 places to terminate the care of the general practitioner, or, for example, that his lips should be classified as emergency care. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much. [[István Szabadi applauds.]]
u2023-03-27-191	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2023-03-27-192	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, Two of the groups present here have spoken anti-Union speeches outside the Hungarian Parliament and the walls of Parliament, Jobbik and Our Hungary. There are two of you who have spoken against the Union, and all other parties have broken a spear in favour of EU membership from its founding to this day, so you have to think about how and what your party has now. And if we can talk about certain areas of health that you mentioned, let's say, GP practices. When we started our government, the average practice in general medicine was 800,000 forints in Hungary, now 3 million forints. 3 million HUF, because we increased the funding of the practices year after year, and we also provided support for the purchase of the practice, the purchase of the right to practice and the application for establishment. If we look at how many people these applications have helped in recent years, we can say that one and a half million people have been helped by these two forms of tendering. Honourable Congressman, You are talking about reducing any on-call supply opportunities for Hungarian citizens. It's not like that at all. On the one hand, the number of doctors has increased in recent years since 2010. When we started our government, there were no 34,000 doctors in Hungary, and now there are more than 38,000 doctors working in Hungary. So the number of doctors has increased, thank God. The number of places where on-call care can be provided is more than 300 overall. If you were right and the new on-call system was under-planned in terms of capacity, we could report two months ago that the patients in the three counties where the new call center had already started would be in line, or the patients would be in line, waiting for hours, and they wouldn't be able to get supplies, because you said it would be less accessible. But that is not the case, but if you look at the data published in full transparency by the National Rescue Service [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Sees an average of one patient per hour for a doctor. So there is no shortage of capacity, there is no queue of any kind, this model works well. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-27-193	Thank you, Deputy Minister. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2023-03-27-194	These reforms have been so successful that in recent years, man has not been able to follow the number of State Secretarys who have left your Ministry and State Secretary during the health transformations. [[Bence Rétvári: None.]] It was a week that maybe two of them left during the conversion. And if a reform is so successful, I do not understand why Tibor Navracsics, for example, has to intervene personally to see how his lips stay on duty and how they should not be downgraded. But if a reform is so successful, what I don't understand is why, for example, GPs don't want to take care of this system, and why it could have happened days ago, even though you said that there were still 50 other statements somewhere in the area, but still 311 of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county doctors had six of the GPs who agreed to be on call. [[András Tállai intervenes.]] This number may have increased since then, and there may be more of them, but the 311 doctors could have achieved more if this had been a successful transformation. The fact is that you do not want to hear the opinion of the profession, which is why the regulations concerning the Hungarian Medical Chamber have been adapted. Doctors are a burden to you in this case. But we can see that all of your modifications are going in the same direction. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] You want double-paying health care, and you want people to pay not only for social security, but also for private care. We can't let that happen. Thank you very much. [[István Szabadi applauds.]]
u2023-03-27-195	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Mr. Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2023-03-27-196	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I have in my hand the earlier letters of the Hungarian Medical Chamber, which concern that this kind of transformation direction is supported by the Hungarian Medical Chamber. You know, we were in such a strange situation that they cooperated in the negotiations, we were attacked in the press by members of the Hungarian Medical Chamber, which is obviously acceptable by a politician, which is somewhat part of politics. Although the word might be better if it had more weight, the doctors were threatened by the Hungarian Medical Association that anyone who takes care of their patients will be subject to ethical proceedings against them, which means that they will potentially exclude him from the Medical Chamber, which means that he will not be able to practice his medical profession for the rest of his life; so six years of university, three years of residency will be cancelled, and he will never be able to heal again in his life. The Medical Chamber thus threatened Hungarian doctors that those who watch the new on-call order every afternoon may say goodbye to their medical profession for the rest of their lives. This is not a responsible attitude, which is why the government had to take action to ensure that a doctor, as he had done before, would not lose his livelihood for the rest of his life. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-27-197	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László Toroczkai, representative of Mi Hazank, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "When will we stop the skinning? Is there any reform in the enforcement and justice system? It's an address. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the head of the Group of Mi Hazank has stated in advance that he is asking for a personal reply, so the Prime Minister must answer the question at the hour of the third immediate question due to his absence. [[The First Novak stands up.]] Now the Jobbik... [[Interjection: No, no! Gergely Gulyás: Sorry for the insult. Bence Rétvári: That's another scenario from a cycle ago.]] It is now time for our country's next representative to ask a question. [[Defiance.]] Scenario error. Thank you so much, you're listening, aren't you? Dear Parliament, President Novak, representative of Mi Hazank, wants to ask the Minister of Defence an immediate question:. Are you willing to put an end to the training of the Hungarian Defence Forces? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-03-27-198	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Welcome to your first speech in Parliament. After his appointment, we gave you confidence, after all, that the defence was a national matter, but I was disappointed, and I did not receive an answer to my letters addressed to you, in which I drew your attention discreetly to the specific shortcomings of the Hungarian Defence Service, including the proposals for the development and procurement of the Hungarian Defence Cabinet. I started this way: as a Member of Parliament, I would not like to draw attention to the shortcomings of the Hungarian Defence Service for the services of foreign states with written questions, but I feel responsible for pointing out to the Minister in some areas in case he had missed it. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, But I did not expect an answer, as I did in vain, in trusting in his regulatory obligation, in a written question, about how much our NATO involvement, for example, is costing us, for example, the occupation in Afghanistan that ended in a ugliness of failure. Your answer says we can't know that, it's classified. How many Hungarian soldiers have been sent to serve foreign countries around the world? Your answer says we can't know that, it's classified. How long will the Covid vaccination be mandatory in the army, and how many soldiers have been fired due to inoculation in the midst of a shortage of numbers? Your answer says we can't know that, it's classified. In fact, he classified the gender training material of the military as a sort of military secret. Yes, I was shocked to learn from a senior officer who came to me with a complaint that the so-called gender training is mandatory already in the Hungarian Army. Are you willing to put an end to this? I asked you this question twice in writing, but you didn't answer, just as I asked you to publish the curriculum or send it to me in vain. According to an internal briefing, for example, the EU's approach to the concept of social sex is considered necessary for the leaders of the Hungarian Defence Forces. Minister, you're not gonna put a rainbow flag on the objects of the defense, are you? It was enough to eliminate the sacred crown guard while the head of state had this. I look forward to your meaningful reply. [[István Szabadi applauds.]]
u2023-03-27-199	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Kristóf Szalai-Bobrovniczky. Mr. Secretary, please.
u2023-03-27-200	Mr President, Dear House, Congressman! It is indeed an honor to make my first speech in Parliament on such an important and far-reaching matter. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I am also in a hurry to reassure the Member that there is no such atypically left-wing, Western genderideology content in the incriminated course as there would be on his question. [[20.40]] I personally studied the curriculum in question, and I concluded that the term "gender" used in English is interpreted as "non" and consistently throughout the material we stand on the soil of the created two sexes. At the same time, since we know that gender-related attitudes in different cultures may differ substantially, for example, in Islamic societies it is significantly different from ours, so it is very important that our soldiers entering the missions take part in appropriate training on this issue in accordance with NATO. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-03-27-201	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2023-03-27-202	Minister, I am very sorry that you did not take advantage of your timeframe, although I would have liked to have listened to your reply on how many Hungarian soldiers have been sent abroad for example, how much our NATO roles will cost, how long Covid's vaccination will be mandatory in the defence and I could still mention the questions that I have submitted in vain in writing. Yes, they are important, they can mock, but these are also meat-stricken questions about the Hungarian Defence and Hungarian society. If there is nothing to be embarrassed or sensitive about in this particular gender training, because this is what it is, otherwise it is, that you are learning the concept and practice of the social sex/gender... and, well, publish it, because it would be interesting to know this curriculum. I asked you to do this, but you refuse to go public. Based on this, I think we have a right to assume that they're re-encrypting something. It is regrettable and shameful that the Hungarian government also kept the information from the Slovak Minister of Defence from us that Hungary is also involved in training Ukrainian soldiers and health professionals. He just sent me his answer to my questions about it today, so let's put the answer in quotes. I asked again how many Ukrainian soldiers were trained in Hungary, and this is a specific question that could have been answered in concrete terms. At present, how many Ukrainian soldiers are in our country for this purpose [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] When did the first such training begin, where did such training take place?
u2023-03-27-203	Thank you, Congressman.
u2023-03-27-204	He didn't answer any of the questions. You can do it now. [[Applause from the benches of our country.]]
u2023-03-27-205	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2023-03-27-206	Thank you very much. I assure you, Mr President, that all your questions will be carefully followed up and based on experts, and that, if they are classified or not shared, they will be treated as such. Since I myself considered the term in the title of the course in question to be a cause for misunderstanding, I have therefore taken action to change it, and in the future this course will be called "operational cultural awareness" course, which also expresses that incorrect and harmful genderideology cannot appear anywhere within the force. I would also like to assure you that I will do everything in my power to ensure that this ideology does not in any way enter the ranks and ranks of the Hungarian Defence Forces. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-03-27-207	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Imre András Jámbor and Bence Tordai, representatives of the Dialogue, want to ask the Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister an immediate question: what is going on here? It's an address. Minister Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, was entitled to respond to his absence. I ask Mr. Congressman to accept the identity of the responder. [[Bence of Turdai says no.]] Or he'll ask the Minister himself for an answer.
u2023-03-27-208	I insist on Mr. Secretary's identity. Thank you.
u2023-03-27-209	I would like to inform you, Mr President, that Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Thank you. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, Member of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What do you think about this... I'm sorry, I'm sorry, [[Bence of Turdai: With all due respect, I have a question for you.]] Oh, I'm sorry. Please understand. There's so much dumping here that it's enough to track. Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What is going on? It's an address. In view of the fact that the leader of the Dialogue did not make a preliminary statement on the personal response request, this should therefore be considered as not to be a personal response by the representative who asked the question on the basis of the decision-making house rule. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-03-27-210	Thank you, Mr. President. A few days ago, Interior Minister Sándor Pintér fired Dániel Kincses Water Director, who gave a critical opinion on the battery factory in Debrecen. Earlier, the Fidesz city leaders in Debrecen tried to remove the professional document from the Internet, according to which I would quote it literally because the Internet does not forget:. The total demand for drinking water in the southern industrial park after the run-up is about 1770 cubic meters per hour, i.e. about 42 500 cubic meters per day, which, with an inequality factor, will be within the range of 46-60 thousand cubic meters per day. After that, he was obviously very uncomfortable with the Fidesz liars trying to deny this, that the official opinion of the Tiszantúli Water Management Directorate was also published, according to which the CATL plant needs to be redesigned in several places from the point of view of water management. Furthermore, due to the emerging industrial water demand, Debrecen has to transform the entire urban drinking water, sewage and precipitation water network conceptually, because the system will no longer be able to withstand the load in a few years' time. After that, Benedek Jávor, the European Parliament leader of the Dialogues-Greens, found that the establishment of a battery plant in Debrecen was in breach of EU law and filed a complaint with the European Commission on this matter. The authorisation of a plant is clearly contrary to the Water Framework Directive and directly hinders its implementation. The negative impact on groundwater bases harms ecosystems dependent on them, including Natura 2000 sites protected by several domestic or European laws, which violates EU Habitats and Birds Directives. Minister, it is obvious that the battery plant violates the interests of the people living there, eliminates their living conditions, destroys the water base in the Debrecen region, but we also see that corrupt Fidesz leaders are in the pocket of Chinese capital, and they are doing everything they can because they believe they can do everything they can, in Hungary. In the EU, however, Viktor Orbán does not dictate yet, so there, following Benedek Jávor's submission, you will be canceled your onion plan. My question is, it wouldn't be better to back off from this completely flawed project. Thank you very much.
u2023-03-27-211	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2023-03-27-212	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The situation is relatively simple, as we have set out a requirement in the procedure of the Government Office, and this was to apply the strictest possible requirements in the granting of the environmental permit. The government office acted accordingly, so I think it is very right that a battery plant that uses a significant part of contaminated water, so water recycling, can open its doors in Debrecen in the coming years. I would add that Germany is also a member of the European Union and that there is a bigger battery plant in Germany. And about when and why the head of a regional water management board is replaced by the head of the specialty, I suggest you ask the professional wallet, Congressman. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-03-27-213	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I'll give you the floor in return.
u2023-03-27-214	It would be comforting, Minister, if we didn't know exactly how to falsify the data. Let me quote the official documents again. According to Annex 5.2 to the Hortobágy-Berettyó river basin management plan under the Water Framework Directive, the Hortobágy-Hajdúság water balance is negative, about 90 thousand cubic metres per day, with a utilisation of 303 per cent, of extreme levels and poor condition. The estimated replacement rate is 141 thousand cubic metres per day, minus 96 thousand cubic metres per day for the use of groundwater-dependent ecosystems, estimated at 44 thousand cubic metres per day. Instead, direct and indirect water extraction is 135,000 cubic meters per day, so it is more than three times what it would be if we wanted to keep the levels. It is quite clear that if the battery plant's water demand is added to this, this overuse will be 400 percent instead of 300. The groundwater is sinking in an amazing way, the soil is sinking in and around Debrecen, and they're gonna destroy this region if they go through with the investment.
u2023-03-27-215	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-03-27-216	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, The thing is, I will say it again, because the Member refuses to listen, or even if he hears it, he does not respond to the fact that it is gray water, water that is contaminated, does not affect the Debrecen water base, does not affect the water supply of the city of Debrecen. [[20.50]] We can fool people with this, we can bring protestors from outside Debrecen to Debrecen, but we do not want to deal with this, because we had only one expectation during the administrative procedure, and that is to apply the strictest possible requirements of the Hungarian and European Union. I would add that the Hungarian constitution was once in the party of András Schiffer, reading his writings and his speeches in this context sets out significantly stricter green requirements and sustainability requirements than the European Union. We expect this procedure to be validated by the Government Office, and the authorisation was issued accordingly. Debrecen's water base is fully secured, and we trust that the jobs that will be created there will also contribute to Debrecen's participation in the national economy. I'm asking you to support the investment. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-27-217	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, And now, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, representative of Lóránt László Keresztes, wants to ask the Minister an immediate question:. What do you think of this, Prime Minister? It's an address. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the head of the LMP faction said in advance that he would ask for a personal reply, so that he will have to answer at the hour of the next immediate questions due to the absence of Prime Minister. It is now up to the next representative of the LMP fraction to ask a question. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. When do you assume responsibility with the title of "Government?" Due to Mr. Minister's absence, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yes, the floor is yours.
u2023-03-27-218	Dear House, Dear Deputy Minister, There are reports from more and more places that local governments in nursing homes are forced to drastically increase the fee to be paid by their relatives, and often double the fee. In Pope, for example, the local Fidesz city administration doubled the fee, which Mayor Áldó Tamás is justified by the fact that the residents of the elderly homes and their entire careers deserve to be provided by their relatives, typically their children, because they have produced a value both in cash and in real estate during their lives, the benefits of which are now enjoyed by these relatives. The truth is, it's not fair. The fact is that this lies of Fidesz, which has been said for years, masking the fact that every day the Hungarian social care system is being dismantled, leave the families to themselves, and they are even trying to produce ideology for this. Reality is completely different. The reality is that these people have worked through their lives, which is why they've paid taxes for decades, so that when they can't take care of themselves, the state can be there to help. That's why we pay social contributions tax, social security, that's what the national risk community is all about. The reality is that the state cannot carry out its task because Fidesz spends tax dollars either on completely unnecessary things, or on an increasing scale, to give more tax incentives to polluting multinational companies that make their profits. Only 5 percent of the largest companies pay taxes in Hungary, while only Audi made more than HUF 2000 billion in profits out of the country. Therefore, there is no money to have a functioning social system, a functioning education or health care system in Hungary, and this is not the responsibility of families, not the municipalities, but the central government. That is why I am asking Mr Deputy Minister when the Government will break off with the way in which it operates, when it considers its main task to take responsibility and not governance. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] When do we get to the point that Hungary will not operate with Hungarian workers getting a worse public service every year, while the polluting factories take advantage of our country? Thank you very much. [[Bence of Turdai applauds.]]
u2023-03-27-219	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári. Two minutes for the speaking time frame, I would like to send a message to Congressman. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
u2023-03-27-220	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, If you are looking for politicians in Hungary who have actually reduced the social normative, i.e. the supply of elderly homes by HUF 30,000 and the increased norm by HUF 100,000, you do not have to go far to find them, you will find among your own allies those politicians who have reduced this. On the other hand, we now provide HUF 86.2 billion for the elderly, we increased supply capacity by 4449, so there are more seats than there were a few years ago. And if you look at the entire social budget, honourable Member, thank God, you can see an even greater increase, from HUF 325 billion to HUF 938 billion under our governance, so we have tripled the social expenditure by almost three times, so I think there is a noticeable expansion here. We have also been able to raise social expenditure so much, Mr honourable Member, because in Hungary the contribution of the companies operating here to the total national product has increased considerably. The more GDP growth, the more money we can spend on social benefits. This includes Hungarian small and medium-sized companies in particular, but it does include large companies who bring technology into Hungary that Hungarian companies cannot bring in or produce; in which we Hungarians cannot bring the world's leading edge, foreigners can enter, and of course everything else in Hungary must be a Hungarian dominant sector. This is how we can bring GDP growth and social security at the same time. Basically, the one million new jobs that have been created are the ones that are most secure for everyone, because the one million people who have not had a job or lived from black work ten years ago, compared to the one who has now announced a job with social security and tax certainty, this will also increase their social security in the long term. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-27-221	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman for a rejoinder. Here you go.
u2023-03-27-222	Thank you very much. Dear Deputy Minister, However, the situation is that you claim that the municipalities, including the Fidesz mayor quoted by me, are raising the fee for nursing homes in a completely self-serving way, and I do not think so. I do not think so, what we see is that inflation is so incredible, but not just this year, but practically this year, last year, and practically if we look at it, then the decline in real value for these normative ones is continuous. You don't pay social workers. For many long years, we have demanded on the Hungarian government to pay the HUF 500,000 paid to health workers during the Covid crisis, the government did not do so, and then they wonder that the social system is not working satisfactorily. I think that this should be improved and not explain the inexplicable. Thank you very much. [[Bence of Turdai applauds.]]
u2023-03-27-223	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Mr. Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2023-03-27-224	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We agree that the wages of social workers should be further increased, because at the beginning of our governance, the average social wage was 137 thousand HUF gross! This is now on average around 400 thousand forints, but I obviously agree with you that this should be further increased, but the problem is that left-wing governments have not shown how to raise these wages in substance. But they showed us how to cut social pay, because it was only your allies who reduced the wages of social workers, and they thought that social workers were making too much money, so they had to be taken from them. They didn't take from the multinationals, they didn't take from the big utility companies, they took from social workers a month's wages, that is, there was an 8 percent wage cut. But, honourable Member, perhaps you have been sitting here in December 2018, when, for example, we decided to increase a very important social benefit, the care fee. When we started our government, we spent HUF 15 billion on this, and now we are spending HUF 91 billion on it, because since then we have introduced the weed, the children's home care fee. But you voted for that? No. Then what are we talking about? When you could have contributed here as a Member to the radical increase in the care fee, you and any of your left-wing fellow Members did not press the yes button. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-27-225	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Illés Boglárka, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question: When will Brussels finally start sweeping around her own house? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman. Excuse me, Minister Répássy has given Mr Róbert the right to reply. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity.
u2023-03-27-226	I accept, yes. Thank you very much.
u2023-03-27-227	You have the floor.
u2023-03-27-228	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, There is a Hungarian proverb that would be worth listening to in Brussels, thinking about, or even applying in practice. This is the following: everyone should be around their own house, because if someone always criticizes the green grass of the neighbor's grass for all sorts of reasons, but neglects their own environment, then they can be like left-wing politicians in Brussels, where the vines of corruption have been so entangled in their homes that they broke the windows first and then the walls were shaken. [[21.00]] And we have come to the conclusion that there is a corruption scandal in Brussels that has perhaps never been seen before in the history of the European Union. The whole thing probably didn't start with Eva Kaili, the Socialist Vice-President of the European Parliament, but he has seen the light of day with her, and since then, more skeletons have fallen out of the closet every day, rather from the building of the European Parliament. But let's look at what the left is doing not only at an international level, but also at home. Are you going to be offended? Oh, no. Are you going to speak out against him? We didn't hear you. Are you worried about transparency in Brussels? You missed me, but from what I can see, I'm not alone. Yet, their representatives stuffed with US dollars from DK's youth to their shadow prime minister not only know them, but also keep in touch with them, in case a small dollar falls to them. Instead of condemning words, therefore, the legitimate resources of our country and the Hungarian people are being held back and hindered by all force. Dear Secretary of State, The conditioning procedure was initiated by Brussels two days after the parliamentary elections against our country. He questioned the decision of the Hungarian people and wanted to put pressure on our country since then, while the corruption scandal in Brussels, unparalleled by European democracy, is plagued. When do you think they'll start sweeping around their own house in Brussels? [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-27-229	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary Robert Répássy. Here you go.
u2023-03-27-230	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You started with a proverb, and I thought about what you told me, another Hungarian proverb: you are the one who digs a pit for someone else. Indeed, this is what happened in Brussels, because the European Parliament where left-wing representatives tried to accept various reports against Hungary in competition with each other and competed with each other in the lineup of the various lies, was involved in a very serious corruption scandal, and all those Members who were involved in this scandal, Eva Kaili, Marc Tarabella, Andrea Cozzolino, Maria Spyraki, Maria Arena, Pietro Bartolo, we hope we will never hear their names again, but I have just said that they have voted in favour of the reports condemning Hungary, they have all been in a certain position to dig a pit for Hungary and have fallen into it. But the point is that on 20 January 2023 our Hungarian delegation to the European Parliament sent a letter to the President of the EP and proposed the introduction of the Hungarian declaration of assets system to restore public confidence in Brussels due to corruption. We know that in recent years precisely these Members, the European Commission, have repeatedly criticised the Hungarian Parliament's declaration of property. In doing so, the Hungarian Parliament decided to take over the property declaration system of the Members of the European Parliament, and that, no, the Commission strongly opposed it, so we were forced to restore the Hungarian property declaration system. And now it is our representatives' proposal to take over the Hungarian model in Europe, in order to avoid corruption in the European Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-27-231	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return.
u2023-03-27-232	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I think it would be naive to think that they will stop witch-hunting in Brussels, but I also think that we have a duty here in the domestic Parliament, within the walls of the European Parliament, to highlight this, and, if possible, to draw the attention of Hungarian citizens, and to make use of various proposals, which, among other things, have proved themselves in Hungary as regards the declaration of assets or, where appropriate, are acceptable by Brussels. We must not give up hope, and it is important that we feel it is our task to drain the swamp in Brussels. We must do this every day, and next year in the elections to the European Parliament, Hungarian people will have the opportunity to express their views on this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-27-233	Thank you very much. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2023-03-27-234	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to say to you that the Integration Authority, which was adopted at the request of the Commission, is also the model where an Integrity Authority oversees the fight against corruption, which I know exists in very few Member States. So from now on, we can also propose not only the system of declaration of assets, but also the establishment of the Integrity Authority, to those Member States who are so violently criticising Hungary. So, if there is something good about this lying propaganda that Brussels bureaucracy is doing to us, then the good thing is that we can at least set an example for some Member States or for the European Parliament itself. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-27-235	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Congressman Imre Vejkey, a representative of KDNP, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question, "What does the government do to protect our children?" It's an address. Minister Robert Répássy, State Secretary, was entitled to reply because of his absence. Do you accept, Congressman?
u2023-03-27-236	Yes, thank you very much.
u2023-03-27-237	Yeah. You have the floor.
u2023-03-27-238	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The fact that the Hungarian dollar left is working against its own country without stopping is no surprise to us, but what Katalin Cseh has done in the past few days is at the bottom of everything. What happened was that in a letter from MEP Katalin Cseh asked his fellow Members to join the case between the European Commission and Hungary with their Member States, of course not on Hungary's side, but on the Commission's side, and to jointly achieve the withdrawal of the Hungarian Child Protection Act. Such a manifestation of the dollar-left representatives is infinitely outrageous and shameful in itself, but even collecting allies for this, well, more than that, it is an outrage. Dear Secretary of State, Hungary has taken action on time against aggressive and deviant behaviour that dominates the world as well as against genderpropaganda: only Hungarian parents have the right to decide on the sexual upbringing of children, and no one else can say anything about it. And I would like to send a message to Katalin Cseh and to the dollar left with the harsh words of Áron Tamási, the quote reads: "He who is vile to man is unfit for Hungarians. End of subpoena. The Hungarian Child Protection Act is vital, we cannot allow this to be abolished. On this basis, I ask the honourable Secretary of State what the government is doing to protect our children. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-27-239	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary Robert Répássy. Here you go.
u2023-03-27-240	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that in the proceedings before the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Hungarian Government clearly takes the view that EU membership does not affect the right of Member States to take decisions on the protection of children in a compatible manner with their national identity, including their cultural, moral standards and traditions. In the defence lodged on 8 March, the Hungarian Government clarified all the misunderstandings and misinterpretations that the law would be exclusional and discriminatory, and the Government clearly advocated the protection of the requirements of the Fundamental Law. If a legally sound decision is taken at the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Hungarian arguments must be given sufficient weight. Our country remains consistent with the position that is clearly enshrined in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union that education falls within national competence. [[21.10]] However, the Charter of Fundamental Rights clearly states that the decision to raise children is the right of parents. On this ground, we will continue to protect and protect the interests of our children, and all sexual propaganda can only be practiced in educational institutions now under the influence of the parent, with the consent of the parent, but let's just say that I am thinking of educating children; obviously there is no place for any other sexual propaganda at school. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-27-241	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. I'll give you the floor in return. Congressman, please.
u2023-03-27-242	Dear Secretary of State, The tightening of the Child Protection Act proved essential, as the future of our children and the healthy survival of our nation are at stake, and last April's referendum further confirmed the importance of this fact. In the referendum on child protection, nearly four million parents and grandparents decided to protect children from genderideological LGBTQ attacks. Our children are already exposed to a great deal of danger by the unlimited use of different social media surfaces, where the LGBTQ-propaganda weaves its web as a spider. I ask Mr Secretary of State to stand up for the children, to stand up for the Hungarian Government, and thank you for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-27-243	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2023-03-27-244	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, We will, of course, wait for the Court of Justice's decision, and Hungary has always complied with the decisions of the Court of Justice of the Union, but this does not change the government's goal of protecting young people, children, by the strongest means possible. Unfortunately, the growing number of cases in recent weeks have also demonstrated the urgent need for a child protection law and the need for an overview of the legislation on this matter. So, not only would the government back down on these issues, on the issue of child protection, but will further strengthen the protection of children by legal means, and we will strengthen it as long as the representatives you mentioned are digging against Hungary; the longer they dig, the more we will strengthen child protection. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-27-245	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the immediate questioning. Thank you for your cooperation. The meeting will be handed over to Vice President Lajos Oláh. (The chair was appointed by Dr. Lajos Oláh, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2023-03-27-246	I salute the Members present and the members of the government. Dear Parliament, The debate on the Commission's report on the declaration of Imre Madách as a commemorative year of 2023 follows. The submission submitted by Mr Mihály Balla, Mr Fidesz, Mr Zsolt Becsó, Mr Fidesz, Members H/3004. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, I ask the author, he wishes to speak. [[Mihály Balla: In the closing word!]] He doesn't want to comment. Dear Parliament, I ask you, he wishes to speak on behalf of the government. [[On Bence Rétvári's mark:]] He does not wish to speak on the part of the government... [[Eszter Vitalos: I'm sorry. To Bence Rétvári, leaving the room:]] Yeah, sorry, I saw a nod there. My apologies. I got two nods mixed up. There you go. I'll give you the floor.
u2023-03-27-247	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, We support the proposal from the government. Thank you very much.
u2023-03-27-248	Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated National Assembly Committee. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. Preliminaryly announced speaker Dávid Dócs, who is absent. I don't see any other speakers. Dear Parliament, The debate is now closed. I'm gonna look at the authors again and see if they're interested in... [[On the mark of Mihály Balla:]] Yes, the author wishes to speak to him. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-03-27-249	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Lords, Secretary of State, Mrs. Thank you very much for the government's supportive approach to this resolution proposal. It is very important for us that, in the last few weeks, every faction has supported, in the decisive vote, the proposal that my colleague Zsolt Becsó and I presented in the general debate, in committee discussions, with the intention that since he worked, created, created, one of the milestones of the world literature in the county of Nógrád, the tragedy of Man, which is still not only our national value, but also basically universal cultural, literary value; it is not a coincidence that the cultural heritage of Madách was translated into 40 languages in the world, and for us people living in the county of Nógrád, Balassagyarmat, Salgótarján, in Salgótarján, the cultural identity issue that is very important for us all along Ipoly. This proposal for a resolution also serves specifically the community in which we can show the heritage of Madách every day in our cultural values, both in Miksáthi and now in this 200-year anniversary. I ask this House to support our proposal in the final vote as well, thank you in advance. I trust that, on the basis of what has been said so far, we will be able to enjoy the full support of this House. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-27-250	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Friday's meeting. And now we ask for the Parliament's patience, we must ask for a two-minute technical break, so that one of the speakers arrives. Thank you very much. (Recess: 21.17-21.19) President: Dr. Lajos Oláh Note: Dr. Winner Vinnai and Sándor Szabó)
u2023-03-27-251	Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws concerning the management of assets and the discussion of the summary amendment follow up. Presentation by Máté Kocsis, Fidesz, Gergely Gulyás, Fidesz, Erik Bánki, Fidesz, Péter Hoppál, Fidesz, Members T/309. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Csaba the Great, the rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman. [[21.20]]
u2023-03-27-252	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that at the meeting of the Legislative Committee held on 23 March 2023, T/309 discussed: a proposal for a law amending the laws concerning the management of certain assets. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 26 votes in favour, 5 votes against and 5 abstentions. Dear Parliament, In the 30th year of the founding of the Károli Gáspár Reformed University, the Hungarian State wishes to acknowledge the Church's efforts for higher education and its development, and to promote the most effective and up-to-date community building work, especially the development of the church's higher education activities in infrastructure, the improvement of the quality of the conditions serving higher education and the achievement of the essential investment and development goals. All of this, especially in order to improve the church's higher education activities and to facilitate the implementation of the necessary investment development goals, will be the property of the church free of charge. A contract capable of registering the transfer of ownership under the amendment in the real estate register shall be prepared and concluded with the church on behalf of the State by the holder of ownership rights. The contract shall indicate the turnover of the property as the turnover of the property as determined by the owner's right practitioner. The church acquires real estate along with the existing burdens. The transfer of ownership is conditional on the church fully accepting the obligations imposed on immovable property under the contract and does not make any claims for reimbursement in relation to the legal situation of the property. The benefits of structural reforms are also enjoyed by the Reformed University of Károli Gáspár, but so far the institution does not have a campus that meets modern challenges. As a result, the faculty of the university operates scatteredly, which does not, as a matter of course, help to create or strengthen the identity of the students. In order to achieve the above objectives, the bill also contains additional ex post clarification provisions on housing benefits to churches. Given what has been said, I believe that the bill before us should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2023-03-27-253	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I ask the author, he wishes to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see that. I'll ask if someone from the government wants to speak. (No one's reporting.) I don't see that. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Economic Committee. Congressman's comments are coming in. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see a congressman. Dear Parliament, The debate is now closed. On behalf of the government, you wish to use the possibility of saying... [[No one's reporting.]] [[No one's reporting.]] He's not alive. The author, I'm guessing, is not alive. I'm asking the author, do you wish to live after all? (No one's reporting.) No. Dear Parliament, The decision shall take place on Friday's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the one-year anniversary of the Russian-Ukrainian war will be discussed. Máté Kocsis, Fidesz; István Simicskó, KDNP; Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP; Barna Pál Zsigmond, Fidesz; Róbert Zsigó, Fidesz; Ill Bulgarians, Fidesz; István Németh Szilárd, Fidesz; János Halász, Fidesz; Lajos Kósa, Fidesz; Judit Varga, Fidesz; Imre Vejkey, KDNP; János Latorcai, KDNP tabled by representatives of H/3086. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Until the author arrives, another technical break will take place. (Sunning: 21.25 21.27 President: Dr. Lajos Oláh Note: Winner Vinnai and Sándor Szabó)
u2023-03-27-254	[[Buttercup Elijah is arriving.]] We are very happy to welcome our author. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to speak. [[Defiance in DK's ranks.]] I'll ask him if he wants to speak on behalf of the government. [[No one's reporting.]] He doesn't want to speak. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Katalin Csöbör, rapporteur of the designated Committee on Foreign Affairs. Here you go, Congresswoman. [[László Varju: He does not wish to speak.]]
u2023-03-27-255	Fellow Members! The Committee on Foreign Affairs held on 13 March 2023 at the meeting of the H/3086 on the one-year anniversary of the Russian-Ukrainian war. The detailed discussion of the proposal for a decision. In this context, the Committee noted that the proposal met the requirements of the house rules and also discussed the amendments tabled. A total of six amendments were tabled, of which three were submitted by Jobbik representatives. The first of these was to remove the reference to the European Parliament's pro-war decisions from the text, which is, of course, understandable in the light of the fact that the party's president, Márton Gyöngyösi, voted in order on these pro-war declarations. According to their second motion, the wording on sanctions should be deleted, which is also no surprise, given that Jobbik has been in favour of failed sanctions in Brussels from the very beginning. Finally, the party's third proposal would have supplemented the text with various references. The Committee found these proposals to be partly harmful and partly unjustified and therefore rejected by a large majority. The representatives of Mi Hazank, the MSZP and the Dialogue also made amendments, who did not consider this matter to be so important that any of them came to the committee meeting. These proposals were also not supported by the Committee. Thus, the Committee on Foreign Affairs adopted the report on the detailed debate in an 8:1 ratio, which proposes to the Parliament to adopt this pro-peace resolution in the same way as it submitted. Thank you for your attention.
u2023-03-27-256	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. I will give the floor to László Toroczkai, from the group of Mi Hazánk, among the speakers who have registered in advance. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-03-27-257	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In fact, I am not surprised that the rapporteur did not appear, despite the fact that it is 9:30 p.m., but I think that we are talking about a very important issue that is currently determining the fate of Hungary and the world and a proposal for a resolution. Therefore, it is time to finally banish hypocrisy. Because if we had to condemn Russia's military aggression on the basis of the resolution proposal, we would have to condemn, say, the military aggression of the United States of America, the military aggression of Britain, the military aggression of Israel, and I would still have a long list. [[21.30]] I wonder how many decisions have been made in this Parliament over the past, say, thirty years, which would have condemned, for example, the military aggression of the United States of America, despite the fact that, in the last two decades alone, the United States of America has been responsible for the death of nearly one million people, based on an assessment of the Brown University's war-price project, i.e. the United States of America, once again, according to Brown University's survey, of 897-929 thousand people. If we have been counting on the nuclear bomb since World War II, where the United States of America has thrown down to Hiroshima, Nagasaki, how many people are responsible for his death, then we could list a lot more millions; the Vietnam war, the Korean war, and many, many wars, but here in 1999 NATO, primarily the United States of America, bombed Serbia, where there were thousands of deaths, many civilians died, or, for example, journalists at the Chinese embassy because of the bombs dropped there. For the past 30 years, I ask you once again how many resolutions this Parliament has passed that it condemns the United States of America. Then it's about Britain. According to a survey of 200 countries around the world, Britain, with the exception of 22 countries, has invaded all of them in some form. This represents about 90 percent of the world's countries. I'm just going to add to the fact that during the wars listed earlier in Afghanistan, Iraq and other wars, Britain was equally involved in the murder of many civilians, and how many times has this Parliament condemned Britain? How many times has this Parliament condemned Israel in the past, say, thirty years, which is also responsible for the deaths of thousands of victims? Only 1,400 Palestinians were killed in 22 days during the 22-day Israeli operation in 2009, including 300 children and 115 women. Did the Hungarian Parliament then condemn Israel? Then they talk about how Russia deported children from Donbas, where, by the way, there are mostly Russian - speaking Russian populations with Russian lips. Has anyone ever mentioned, in this Parliament, how many children were deported from South Vietnam by the United States of America during the so-called Babylon operation between 3 and 26 April 1975? From South Vietnam, more than 3,300 babies and children were transported to various Western countries until the last flight to America. Has anyone ever talked about this in the Hungarian Parliament? Not that I know of. Then, they condemn Russia, quite rightly, if it is responsible for the deaths of civilians. But did anyone in this Parliament talk about, for example, on 19 May 2004, a wedding march was bombed by American soldiers in Iraq? Then 42-43-44-45 people lost their lives there, mostly women and children. Then, on 6 July 2008, the same American army, on behalf of democracy, in Afghanistan, seems to have killed another wedding procession. Here 47 civilians died, 39 women and children among the 47 victims. According to the Department of Defense, the United States of America, which has killed the civilians listed above, has some military representation in 153 countries around the world. This represents about 80 percent of the world's countries. Who, then, is expanding? Who's the one who's aggressor? Who is it that slaughters civilians, any great power? [[Intervention from the benches of opposition parties: Russians...]] Russia, but you seem to hear only Russia. I've just said how many civilians are responsible, for example, for the civilian deaths of the United States of America, which you so admire and fund. Then, if the United States of America is condemned in a similar proposal for a resolution, then Russia should also be condemned on the same day. Whatever great power it is, it must be condemned if it is aggressor. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of our country.]]
u2023-03-27-258	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Agnes Vadai, from the DK Group.
u2023-03-27-259	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that there is no man in the world who does not want to live in peace; perhaps Vladimir Putin alone, although he may also be seeking peace of mind. What's been going on in your communications for weeks and months is simply an act. You are talking about misguided sanctions in Brussels, while, my fellow Members, your prime minister is the only one in this country who voted for these sanctions, all of them, piece by piece, and we have learned nothing in advance about those details in Parliament. It is very important that there should be a proposal for a resolution condemning Russia's aggression against Ukraine, and it would be extremely important that this proposal for a resolution should include the fact that, in agreement with us, Vladimir Putin is considered a war criminal, and that, if he enters Hungary, the authorities will, of course, take the necessary measures. But you, along with your own slepp, are talking about whether, if Vladimir Putin enters Hungary, I don't know, or if he's about to be prepped for his trip, he could be free in the territory of this country. That's what I think. [[Towards the benches of Fidesz:]] I am very sorry that the Member is leaving, because she was the only one who spoke to this proposal for a resolution at this not-too-late hour, although it is not yet too late to talk about these issues in substance. So, I think that this proposal for a resolution is neither pro-peace nor pro-European nor NATO, it is a Putin-friendly proposal for a resolution. And you sometimes try to tell me that Putin is being convicted, but we are living with the suspect trial, and this is what we can see and we will certainly talk about in the context of the Swedish NATO accession, that you are in the background to consult Vladimir Putin, and that you are on the Fidesz faction from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to break the European and NATO unity that has started to be completely clear. I think that it is possible to make such proposals for decisions and talk about peace, even world peace, and even peace in the universe, but you are not taking any action in the world. You are not in the interests of the nation in this Parliament. You serve Vladimir Putin in this Parliament, piece by piece. Piece by piece, and this is outrageous! If you would like to address what needs to be done in order to stop Russian aggression, you would present clear pro- NATO resolution proposals. You don't want to keep this country in NATO. We see how Hungary has been removed from the European Union for the past 12 years. And their Nazi buddies may applaud it, but we don't, and most of the country doesn't. I would add that NATO is supported by even more than the European Union in this country. With this proposal for a decision, you may want to reassure your own non-existent conscience, but in no way this proposal for a resolution is pointing in the direction that would represent the country's position. By the way, the Democratic Coalition, at the request of the Shadow Government, has submitted a proposal for a resolution, which deals with issues that you have failed, not with the sanctions in Brussels, but with the consequences of your failed economic policy, and which would certainly keep this country in the European Union and NATO. You are also using Vladimir Putin's aggression to get Hungary as far away from our allies as possible. [[21.40]] If you are trying to do this, you are facing a great deal of power, and this power is called the Hungarian people. And that is why, fellow Members, I would propose that this proposal for a resolution be withdrawn. If you would like one of these, I think there is no one on this side who would not support peace, if you would like a resolution proposal that is really about peaceful solutions, really condemns the aggressor, then we are willing to make a resolution proposal with you either now or at any time during the night. We're not just helping you with the texting, we're helping you with the editing, because it's obviously not going to work for you or your law firms in the last 12 years, which are making them. But this text in this form, and especially the circumstantial coverage that we have been listening to in the last few weeks, is quite simply unacceptable. You are accusing the democratic opposition side, including the Democratic Coalition, and we have heard this today, and the shadow government is accused of being pro-war. Please explain now, although I am more pleased if you do so in the afternoon in prime time, but still if you do, I will be happy to quote what we have done in the Democratic Coalition or in the shadow government, with which we became pro-war, because this is such a very well-sounding text, but this is not so. You're lying about that, too. Their whole world, their whole politics, is built on lies, their whole world, their whole politics is built on getting this country as far away from the thousand-year-old state that is in every generation, which has always meant belonging to Europe. I would therefore like to ask the congresswoman, although I assume that she was not the intellectual author of this proposal for a resolution, not even their faction, obviously the order came from Carmelita, but if, for example, you have opposed the Prime Minister in the case of NATO accession, then you should also do so in this case. Let this Parliament then write a proposal for a resolution that is truly in favour of peace, watching the victims, the aggressor. We'll always be partners in this. We will never be partners in any proposal for a resolution or bill that undermines Hungary's position in these two organisations, which undermines its credibility, removing the country from NATO, the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-03-27-260	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Antal Csárdi of the LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-03-27-261	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, It is indeed important to condemn Russian aggression, and I think that there is no debate, no debate in this Parliament, and I think that it is equally possible to say that everyone wants peace. But let us not doubt that the resolution proposal presented by Fidesz is not about peace or war at all; it is just a cynical trap, a cold, calculating and cruel trap. Its aim is to lead and deceive the Hungarian people, to conceal the real responsibility of the aggressor, and as an additional power, it can even be put on those who disagree with the government's narrative that they are pro-war, thus legitimizing the government's Russian pro-Russianism inside and abroad, wrapped in silk paper that seems to be pro-peace. Don't let him fool us. I think the biggest problem with this resolution proposal is that the government imagines a peace where the lion is allowed into the rabbit cage, and then we tell them to agree to put down the weapon. I think we should all have the picture of what would happen in the cage after all. I would like to tell everyone why, based on our historical experience, Russian aggression must be stopped under all circumstances. I would like to say, although I think you all know that in 1938, in addition to the idleness of the Western powers, Nazi Germany carried the Anschluss through, in the same year Germany practically swallowed up the Sudetan region. We all remember the contract in Munich. And despite what had happened, he thought that the great powers of that time would satisfy the aggressor, but the world war broke out in September 39. The pattern is painfully similar. Think about Georgia, think about Crimea, think about the republic next to Dniester, and last time about Ukraine. Let's not think that an aggressor will stop at this point. If you are serious about thinking about what is in Hungary's interest, what is in our national security, then you should see it, because the answer is here in the recent history. We will have peace here in the long term if there is a just peace, so if Russia leaves Ukraine, it will leave Crimea and we will not give them space to complete their aggression. You write in this proposal for a decision that the sanctions are affecting Hungary and that they have not achieved their objectives. The sanctions did stop the Russian bear, and the Russian troops have been retiring significantly over the past few months. And the reason for the high energy prices is that the Russians tried to use their dominance in this area as a weapon. Remember, the rise in prices prevented Ukraine from storming, and as a result of the sanctions on the standard Dutch TTF gas exchange, the subscription of gas is below that price from a year ago. In Hungary, energy prices are high because we take energy at a high cost from Russia. You are talking about inflation, which is very popularly referred to as war inflation, but interestingly, while inflation is still above 20 percent in Hungary, this figure in the European Union, this figure is below 10 percent. So the EU inflation average is 9.9 percent. Doesn't it affect them, you think inflation, war inflation? Are Polish people not affected by inflation? They're closer to the war than we are, yet the inflation is lower. It can be clearly shown, it can be shown that your ruined economic policy is what creates the current situation. I think that if Hungary's interests are first, and I would very much like to believe that you are serious about this, then we need to think about what will ensure Hungary's defence effectiveness, because we can protect ourselves and our countrymen. Unfortunately, knowing the strength of the Hungarian forces, we know precisely that a Russia would run across the country without braking in about a quarter of an hour. We are part of a military alliance, and this military alliance guarantees our security. But it's not like every other day we kick one of our own allies, and we're trying, in a very sneaky way, to prevent, prevent sanctions that can otherwise contain Russian aggression. I think that you need to make a very serious change of direction in order to finally take Hungary seriously again on the international stage, because the biggest losers of your foreign policy are our countrymen who are trapped outside, because the hatred that is today against Hungary is clearly the cause of that. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of MSZP and DK.]]
u2023-03-27-262	Thank you, Congressman. I do not see a candidate for further comments, and the debate is closed. I'm asking you, on behalf of the government, there's someone who wants to answer. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Secretary of State, I give you the floor.
u2023-03-27-263	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, There have been some comments that I would like to reflect on, stating at the outset that we support the resolution proposal on the part of the government in its current form. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: No wonder!]] Because we are convinced that this is a pro-peace proposal. But I do have a few comments. One is that the parallels 38-39 are unhistoric. So in 38-39 there was no NATO, there was no European Union, but there was Hitler and there was Stalin. So this comparison doesn't hold up at all in the first place. Secondly, I was surprised to hear that Hungary is moving away from NATO and moving away from the European Union. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: It is not Hungary, but the Hungarian government that takes it from there! Secretary of State, listen to me.]] Let me remind you of that congresswoman, too. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: You don't have to.]] that Hungary has supported all NATO decisions in all Eastern ratification measures in the last year since the war broke out, and even before that, even after the annexation of Crimea, Hungary has supported all NATO decisions. [[21.50]] For the first time in history, we reached a 2-percent defence budget, which was very far from home. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Lies!]] and the development rate has long been above 20 percent, which is also Welsh, as we know. So I don't think that means we're moving away from NATO, but we're standing right next to the unity. We have maintained unity in the EU in the same way in the last year, which has not been easy because everyone has national interests, yet we have managed to maintain a kind of unity and we have gone together with the other countries. The fact that we have vital national interests is another issue, the rest of us have, at the very least, not to be talked about in public. So we're not lying, we're lying. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Well, yes!]] the pro-war who does not speak in favour of the ceasefire and negotiations as soon as possible. However, this proposal for a decision is exactly that, and if we look at what the interests of Hungary are in this case and what the interests of Hungary are in relation to the whole conflict, let us briefly remember this in one or two points. One is that Hungary must stay out of this war at all costs, and we recognise Ukraine's right to self-defense, sovereignty and territorial integrity, but we do not place the interests of Ukraine before the interests of Hungary. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Only the NER interests.]] The second is that we must preserve peace, and there are several elements of it, and that we do not deliver deadly means to Ukraine, and that we are in any event seeking to avoid NATO or the European Union being directly involved in this conflict. By the way, I would like to point out that the mainstream within NATO is exactly the same as the Hungarian position, in no way should the alliance be allowed to slip into this conflict. There are some countries that have handled the issue pretty wildly and make rather dangerous proposals, but fortunately, the majority, including Hungary, have been able to prevent this. The third is the need to minimise the effects of penalties that have failed, to veto any sanctioning proposal that threatens our energy security or faces our fundamental economic interests. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Or you're endangering the business.]] By the way, the Hungarian Government has consistently done this so far without, by the way, vetoing it for the sake of unity, releasing those ten sanctions packages. Fourth, we need to convince the parties about the cease-fire. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: World Peace!]] Of course, we are not big enough to do this, and we are not going to solve the crisis, and it is certain that we must strive to at least say that we are negotiating with each other, as we are doing through diplomatic channels. Without negotiations [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] there will never be peace in our neighbourhood, and this will further jeopardise Hungary's security. And finally, as a fifth point, as a Hungarian interest: let me say that support and protection must be granted to the minority community in Transcarpathia. We are also doing everything we can to this end, and the most important thing is that we can be united in this, because this is the only way we can show strength to our partners in order to ensure national minority rights. Overall, I therefore think that this proposal is in line with Hungarian interests and we support it on behalf of the government. Thank you very much.
u2023-03-27-264	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he would like to respond to what was said in the debate. There you go. I'll give you the floor.
u2023-03-27-265	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. If I may, I do not wish to respond to personal comments. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: No.]] because I believe that this proposal for a resolution, which lies before us, is responding to a much more serious and much more difficult situation than it is or is the case with regard to the debate that takes place in person. At the same time, allow me to thank the Members, fellow Members, who already participated in the general debate on 7 March and who participated in the detailed debates of the committees. After all, as Mrs Csöbör said and mentioned, she had amendments to the opposition representatives, but they did not participate in the Commission debates, and they did not argue in favour of their amendments. The Democratic Coalition also has a representative in the Committee on European Affairs, and has not appeared in the debate that was a detailed debate on the pro-peace resolution proposal. We condemn Russia's aggression from the very beginning and stand for Ukraine's territorial integrity. If you think so, my fellow Member, I repeat. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: No need.]] We condemn Russia's aggression and stand for Ukraine's territorial integrity. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I can't believe you think so.]] The war has been going on in our neighborhood for over 12 months, and we have been clearly on the side of peace for over 12 months, arguing for peace. We didn't expect adjustments, we didn't wait for other countries. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Yes, you can. To the Turks.]] we didn't expect any other suggestions, but we consider it important to look for allies for peace, because what's going on next door and the other wars are all unfortunate. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Talk about the children Putin is taking.]] It should happen anywhere in the world, especially when it comes to civilian casualties, thousands or hundreds of thousands of civilian casualties. But from the other wars, this war is so much different that it is in our neighbourhood, and it is therefore very important that we draw up a pro-peace resolution regarding the war that is going on next door to us, which clearly shows that we want peace. In view of the fact that several of my fellow Members have argued for peace, I would also ask you to support this pro-peace resolution. [[Antal Csárdi intervenes. Zoltán Varga: Tell Putin to withdraw.]] And I also ask you, because, unfortunately, even in the general debate, there were arguments that urged the transport of weapons, I ask you to respect the will of Hungarian citizens, Hungarian voters, who had already voted for peace in the parliamentary elections last year. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Who doesn't? The president's ringing the bell.]] Unfortunately, it has now also been said in this debate by opposition representatives that sanctions work and sanctions are thought to be necessary. If you are listening, then you know which Member has spoken, I trust that there was an opportunity, it has been said that the sanctions are working, the Hungarian people have had the opportunity to express their views on sanctions. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Now, that's the one true statement today.]] - Their position. More than 97% of the Hungarian people who have expressed their views on sanctions have rejected the sanctions, so I ask you to [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] to respect the opinion of the Hungarian people, and I ask you to support the resolution proposal before us, which is clearly in favour of peace and clearly in favour of the ceasefire. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-03-27-266	Thank you to the author. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Friday's meeting. Dear Parliament, The discussion of the Commission's reports on the publication of the Protocol on the accession of the Kingdom of Sweden to the North Atlantic Treaty follows. Government referral T/638. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] The rapporteur does not wish to speak. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Committee on Foreign Affairs. The representatives will now take part in the speeches. I give the floor to Agnes Vadai, from the DK Group.
u2023-03-27-267	Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm rarely shocked, but now I'm shocked. We are talking about Sweden's accession to NATO and its ratification, this is the debate of the Commission's report, and the Hungarian government does not have a word, they do not want to comment on this. They have nothing to say about our ally in the European Union, what is the Hungarian government's view of the accession of Sweden to NATO, which, in cooperation with us in war technology, is a strong partnership with us. However, I think I am not the only one here in this Chamber or in the country, but perhaps not here on the European continent, who would like to know why I believe that this is the correct term today, the Hungarian Prime Minister, or the Hungarian Prime Minister, has refused to support the Democratic Coalition's proposal to decide today on Sweden's accession to NATO. Ladies and gentlemen, Last summer in Madrid, NATO countries accepted Finland and Sweden's request and supported the support of all present states and Heads of Government to join NATO. [[22.00]] Everyone wins with the accession of Sweden and Finland. Fortunately, at the vote today, we were able to close the question of Finland, but not Sweden. Sweden, whose military force and democratic commitment will absolutely contribute to the further strengthening of NATO, as the world's strongest democratic defence community. This would strengthen the security of NATO, strengthen Hungary's security and, of course, strengthen the security of Hungarian citizens. We are here, it is almost 10:00, and we are now having the debate on the Commission report, which means that we are obviously not going to vote on it this week. In the last eight months, we have not heard any substantive conditions which the Hungarian Government would have imposed on Sweden to fulfil these conditions in order to become a member of NATO. In fact, the Hungarian government did not provide any preconditions last year in Madrid, and everyone was reassured that this process was going forward on its own, since, in the Finnish proposal, the other Secretary of State, Mr Menczer, was so nicely, factually and emotionally, I said that he had already spoken correctly in plenary about NATO accession. And here we are, and the Hungarian government does not have a word about why Sweden's accession to NATO is hindered, why no one could read about it anywhere, which is why this week we could not vote on this issue. There can be no reason why many people are saying that you are trying to help the President of Turkey, because you are so sensitive to national sovereignty. You do not make your own decision dependent on what Turkey's current leader says. It's up to you to decide on your own. And while you, Mr Secretary of State, have admitted that you are fighting through diplomatic channels to achieve peace in the aggression caused by the Russians, in the aggression against Ukraine, it has seemed to me that what I have long believed that you are obviously negotiating in the background, but I do not think that this is what you are negotiating with the Russians. But perhaps you would not go so far as to help Vladimir Putin to divide NATO expansion on the European continent, in the European Union. And I do not dare to assume, because you are not like this because you are doing all this to blackmail Sweden, so that as the President-in-Office of the European Union, you can get other countries to know that Brussels is the capital, which you do not love so much, the money that has been withdrawn from the Hungarian government, and unfortunately from Hungary, because you are operating a corrupt, anti-democratic, anti-law system. And the best part is, they're proud of it. I dare not think that any of these three reasons are true, because that's not who you are. You are so delicate, and Secretary of State Menczer spoke so nicely about how Finland fulfils the conditions for entry into NATO. Well, Sweden's doing just the same! This is why it is incomprehensible why the Hungarian Government is sitting here silently and why it does not state the arguments that made it impossible to negotiate the accession of Swedish NATO with the Finnish NATO accession this afternoon. I also said in the previous debate that you may have one problem, that you are confusing the country with yourselves. Hungary is neither the Hungarian government nor the Hungarian opposition, and we do not identify ourselves with the country, while you are happy to do so, but the country is not the same as the Hungarian pro-government representatives, whose activities in the various parliamentary and other international forums are extremely unpleasant. You are systematically undermining Hungary's position in the European Union, and we have known this for a long time, but it is now systematically undermining Hungary's position in NATO as well. And this, which they are doing now, is continuing to postpone Sweden's accession to NATO, which further destroys the Hungarian government's status in NATO, which is not outstanding. I would like to ask the honourable Member of the Government that it is very difficult, and it may be difficult for him to at least enlighten us in his reply, apart from the fact that you do not like the current right-wing Swedish Prime Minister, because he has spoken critically to the Hungarian Government, and besides the fact that there are Swedish politicians I note that they are not only Swedish, I am telling you now, but there are politicians everywhere on the continent and even everywhere in the world who are critically reaching back to the Hungarian government's activities. But I don't think it's their fault. I think it's your fault. If everyone comes across the freeway, we should think that maybe we should turn around, but I don't want to get involved in this, this is your misguided steering, which you can see where it leads us. By no means in the direction that would lead this country in a European, Atlantist direction. But it would be nice to know what conditions you are imposing on Sweden. Because if your excuse is that you are offended because Swedish politicians are criticizing the Hungarian government, not Hungary, but the Hungarian government, then I think this is little, I think it is even shallow, I think it is even embarrassing. Because the security of this country can't depend on whether you're in a good mood or if you're in a bad mood. The country's security will be strengthened by Sweden's entry into NATO. Hungary's technological development, to which you, Minister of State, are so proud, is helped by the Swedish purchasing process that was launched earlier, just at the time of your governance, and obviously they have bought now. So Swedish military technology is good, Swedish investment is good, Swedish democracy is less critical than yours, Swedish people are at the very beginning of the list of happiness, what is not good in Sweden, which makes you think that there is no objective decision now to enter NATO? That's what we want to know. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-03-27-268	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, LMP Group.
u2023-03-27-269	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, The real question is whose interest the Government of Hungary is preventing NATO expansion. But let's move forward a little bit. What is Hungary's national security interest? As on the previous item, I must ask the question, which is not really intended for poets, how long would the Hungarian army, with its own strength, be able to stop attacking any of our neighbours or any country. I dare say that we can only talk about minutes here, because at the moment the army of Hungary is not able to defend our country. The security of Hungary is clearly guaranteed by NATO. The military federal system of which we are a member, on whose part we can expect some protection, but yes, we also have obligations. What, though, have we heard as a counterargument to the House Committee meetings, the press, or even in this debate, about why we are hindering the accession of the Swedes? What we have heard is that the behaviour of the Government of Hungary, the behaviour of the Fidesz government, can be described as when my daughters were small kindergarteners, and they said that the Tibike mocked and the Ágika betrayed. That's the style and type of argument you're making on a national policy issue, a matter of national security. Tell me, aren't you ashamed? The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a clear consequence of this: Hungary's foreign policy perception is in unprecedented depths. This is partly because of the obstruction of NATO expansion and partly because of your general foreign policy. [[22.10]] However, I think it is relatively simple to see that a cooperative, fair partner can achieve much more on the international political scene than your government, whose behavior I find very difficult to describe in a short sentence. So the question remains, to the end, to whose benefit the Hungarian government is preventing NATO from expanding. I think that it is easy to see and understand that neither the Finns nor the Swedes can be the cause of this, because economic relations and political relations are not such as to give a real reason. There is a great deal of speculation here, but the fact is that it would be only fair, honourable Secretary of State, if you had once in the history of the Hungarian Parliament, since I am here, you would tell us an honest answer: why are you obstructing NATO expansion? What is in all our interests is to strengthen NATO, the military alliance that we are part of, and the power of which we enjoy, by the way. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2023-03-27-270	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Tamás Bellozó, from the group of the MSZP. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-03-27-271	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. In this debate, it would really be one new thing if we could get answers to the questions that we have just said, which I will repeat in part. Even more so, because it is an axiom that NATO guarantees Hungary's safety. We know this not only from textbooks and all kinds of similar lectures, but perhaps the Prime Minister himself has talked about it several times over the past period, but also on the prominent front pages of Hungary's national military strategy or national security strategy, based on the strategy adopted by the current government, we can read that one of the two pillars of Hungary's security is collective protection, which NATO can guarantee us. Well, in a situation like this, you really don't understand what's happening. I don't think it's important to know, but it's important to know, and it would probably help the Swedes if we could understand what you're doing right now. So the more transparent story is that we voted on the Finns today, and now we are discussing the Swedish accession after 10:00 a.m. here, while the Hungarian government or the Hungarian Parliament did not set any objective conditions in this regard towards the two countries; just as the Finns did not fulfil the non-conditions, the Swedes did not comply with the non-conditions either, as there were no such conditions. On the other hand, you sent out two Fidesz delegations, which was not a Hungarian parliamentary delegation in a completely nonsense way, because it was a one-party delegation, in exchange for MEPs, which we do not know exactly why the Hungarian sovereignty and the decision of the Hungarian Parliament were actually there; but both of them came home from meetings, and our dear fellow Members of the Fidesz have posted pictures that, indeed, these stubborn Swedes and Finns have now understood what we want. What are we doing here compared to this? What are you doing here? Just tell me who has to do what so that this wretched law can be voted or rejected by Parliament. Well, obviously that's up to you, because you're the majority. So one of the important questions I think is that there is any objective criteria that you can identify that these evil Swedes didn't do it right. If you want to achieve what you have already achieved in Hungary with your enormous freedom of the press, in many ways, so that Swedish politicians can keep their mouths shut and not say a wrong sentence about the Hungarian government, then, of course, Sweden can be bullied or blackmailed for a period of time or hours. But you don't really think that fidesz politicians talking about Hungarian sovereignty at the side can reach another country, so that you can tell them what they can talk about or what they can't talk about by crushing their sovereignty with your feet? ! If you do not like any political criticism that the Swedes are saying, then make similar criticisms of them; about this story in terms of its seriousness, and not to hinder their accession. Then what else could it be? Let's be honest about this. Half the world is talking about saying this, too, as a member of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, where they do not understand, they really do not understand themselves, that one of the solutions is to serve Turkey and the Turkish Government. And in fact, as Hungarian MPs, you are literally serving foreign interests and not the interests of the Hungarian country. The interests of the Hungarian homeland were clarified at the beginning, that is the strong NATO, and there is a strong Hungarian army in it. Mr. Secretary. Are we messing with the Swedes for the Turks? Give me a straight Hungarian sentence. The other assumption between our allies is that we are messing with Hungary, the Hungarian government and the Fidesz majority are already messing with the Kingdom of Sweden, and otherwise they are messing with the safety of the people who live there. Mr. Secretary. Are we not voting for Swedish accession on behalf of the Russian Government? 'Cause you gotta say something about one of them. So the Swedes didn't do anything right or because of the Turks or the Russians? Or, and then, my last question is none of these, and then tell me, Mr Secretary of State or Congresswoman, what is preventing the fidesz majority from putting this issue on the agenda on Friday 31st, if necessary, and voting on the Swedish accession this week. Be kind enough to answer that. I am also asking the women in Congress, because we Members can resolve the deviation from the house rules in our own jurisdiction. If the questions you just asked are not the answer, and, obviously, in the end, so that we can vote on this as soon as possible, then the answer will be yes. My fellow Member from Vada has already mentioned: if we do not vote on it this Friday, there will not be a parliamentary meeting next week, then at least two or three weeks after that, until this affair continues. And finally, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State: is the real reason why the Swedes are trying to keep the money in the corner? It is in the interests of all Hungarians that these EU funds arrive. There is a condition, Mr State Secretary, that laws should be introduced to correct the rule of law in Hungary. Believe me, the Hungarian government's perception is that the dog in the shooting range no longer cares who you're blackmailing and what you're gonna do. They don't care. We're not gonna make any money. If they bring in the laws that the Union asks of us, then there will be money, and by the way, there may not be more countries to be pissed off not just for years, but for decades or generations; not just for themselves, but for all Hungarian people that you do not have the right to do. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2023-03-27-272	Thank you, Congressman. Mr Boglárka Elijah, from the Fidesz Group, asked for two minutes, which is not possible. May I take your two-minute request as a request for a word? [[On the sign of Elijah Boglarka:]] That's what I consider it. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2023-03-27-273	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to start by saying that we do not have a debate between us, and that we clearly support the accession of the Kingdom of Sweden to NATO. And as you have said, however, there are some debates that we have not been able to conclude. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Who?]] and I ask you not to debate it: it is the responsibility of Members to represent and, where appropriate, articulate the opinions, concerns, requests of voters. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] What I'm asking you is that you don't want to be taken to the point that there are certain issues that you might be able to clarify. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: What?]] they are able to conduct it between the representatives concerned, the Hungarian Members of Parliament concerned and the Swedish Members. [[Antal Csárdi: Am I not involved?]] To this end, there was a delegation from the Parliament in Sweden to conclude these debates. You have said that the debates have not yet been resolved, and that is the aim of concluding the debates as soon as possible. [[22.20]] What we indicated earlier, and we promised earlier, that we would not be the last, it would not be up to us that the Kingdom of Sweden could join NATO. [[Zoltán Varga: It's infantile!]] We intend to continue to maintain this. Our aim is to conclude these points and debates as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I appreciate the fact that two Members of Parliament have been left behind by the courageous Members. I really appreciate it. I appreciate that. All the men got me out of here! Appreciate it.]]
u2023-03-27-274	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Antal Csárdi of the LMP Group.
u2023-03-27-275	Thank you very much for the floor. My dear fellow Member, You say you support the accession of the Kingdom of Sweden to NATO. So what's this? How come we didn't vote on it before? It's not that this week, it's months ago? He says they're having fights. What kind of arguments do they have? What kind of arguments do they have? Did he, uh, make fun of you, or did a member of the Swedish Parliament say "bibibibibi"? Seriously, seriously, let's not go under a certain level of international relations. How they don't give a shit! With all due respect, if the Fidesz majority is in favour of NATO enlargement, then it is completely unnecessary to be so elusive, otherwise unspoken, because they could not tell what the source of the conflict was to hold on to problems, but to put it to the vote, my fellow Member said that there is always room for a derogation from house rules if you support it. I certainly dare say that everyone on this side would support a departure from house rules if this would speed up NATO enlargement, because it is in our national security interest. And you may be offended by the Swedes, but we don't know exactly who or why, you can say that there is a need to settle disputes, but we don't know what is causing the debate. With all due respect, you clearly think voters are stupid, clearly you think opposition representatives are stupid, and I ask you with all due respect, don't do this. Both Hungarian citizens and Members deserve much more. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2023-03-27-276	Thank you, Congressman. I do not see any further comments, and the debate is closed. I'll ask the author if you'd like to answer. [[For signal:]] I wish. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Well, now, when you can't talk back, you can, of course! Very brave.]]
u2023-03-27-277	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I listened with great interest to the various comments on this issue. Let me make it clear that the government submitted this proposal to Parliament last summer. So we're in favour. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Here, now blame the Fidest. He's the reason!]] , we support Swedish accession. By the way, I regret the fact that the Hungarian army is so minimized by Members, and I think this is a very, very bad approach when we are in the middle of the greatest modernisation. No one who is committed to the Hungarian army would ever do such a thing, not even for the outside world. Those who listen to this, how weak Hungarian forces are, I do not think that is a good attitude. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Who said that?]] Several people have said that more than once. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Why are you looking at me? I certainly didn't say that.]] The other is what a federal affair means. So that's not child's play. Supporting someone's membership of NATO means that we are building a trust relationship so that if we do not give, God, there will be a conflict in this country, Hungarian soldiers will have to be sent there, and these Hungarian soldiers could die there anyway. So there is a very, very fundamental, serious issue to be decided on. [[Zoltán Varga: Do you support him or not?]] and therefore all aspects must be examined, and a responsible decision must be taken, a sovereign decision, and it does not matter what the pressure is on Parliament or Members or the Government, but what is the final consideration in this matter. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: But you support him! You just said that!]] There is also a need to take into account the bilateral relationship, as there have, unfortunately, been a lot of very negative, offensive opinions on the Swedish part in recent years, and I have a whole stack of these statements. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I'm guessing that's what you've been doing, not other important things. What about the Gripens? What about the Gripen?]] I don't want to, I don't think we should subpoena them all at 10:30. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: They didn't care about the Gripens. Shame!]] de objectivee [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] These statements can be proved because they were public statements, so it is not surprising that everyone knows them anyway. [[Zoltán Varga: Poor Prime Minister has been scolded!]] We do not want to interfere with Swedish internal policy, Swedish home affairs [[Moraj from the opposition parties. Dr. Agnes Vadai: No, no!]] But on the basis of mutual respect, we would expect this to be the case the other way around, especially if this country [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Review!]] If this country wants to become our ally. In addition, let us say that Parliament has sent a delegation to clarify these issues. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: The party sent you, not the parliament!]] and when he came back, he decided to separate the issue of Finnish and Swedish ratification because he had different impressions of the two issues, the two relations. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: They didn't have any impressions, they didn't know why they were there!]] We expect Swedish government actors to reassure the members of the Hungarian Parliament [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We are calm! Zoltán Varga: We personally!]] and that would be important. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We are personally calm! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] it would be important to ensure that the Swedish NATO accession can be voted on as much as possible. So let's not rush, let's wait for the moment, and when we have the majority we experienced this afternoon, [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: What about the Gripen?]] in the case of ratification of the Finnish Protocol of Accession. Six people voted against, 182 or so voted against. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Minister of Foreign Affairs wasn't here.]] That's what we're trying to do. The government supports this and we are patient with the parliamentary majority to deliver this position [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] and make a decision on ratification. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-03-27-278	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Unfortunately, I can't say that there will be a decision on Friday. Now I can tell you that the decisions will take place at our later meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. László Varju, from the DK Group, applied for a post-meeting speech. What is happening in Újpesten? It's an address. I give you the floor, Congressman. Here you go.
u2023-03-27-279	Thank you very much. Following a major debate in Sweden, therefore, what is happening in Újpesten, as I am taking the opportunity to report in order here to you about what people and the local government can do to improve the quality of life in Újpesten, creating common affairs. Not regardless of the fact that we have to work with narrower resources and tighter financial resources because of government decisions, I would add that cutting inflation also affects the circumstances, but we are finally beyond the most significant effects of the pandemic, and we have managed to return to, and retain, events of such importance to many people's tastes, to satisfy the interests of different age groups, and the organisation of these has marked the past months. By the way, I am convinced that the result of quality is given not only by the unlimited availability of resources, but also by creativity, commitment, ideas that together give us the opportunity to find the best solutions. Újpest events with smart farming and listening are a kind of emotional investment and social community formation that we strive for. This could make it a real goal that most of our events were, by the way, for families to play their main role. Our festivals are linked to several generations, and have also spoken to young people and older people, and I am thinking here about the children's day of old, the march of Martin, the pumpkin-carving festival, city days, the family day of BorVíkend or the Santa's day programs. But the extraordinary presentation, which commemorated the 1956 Revolution, could have given a special experience, and the related exhibitions must have given a lasting experience, to small children, to large people and to families as well. This year, for example, we will have the successful musical literary evening of the UPódium with Anna Juhász guests. Returns to the World Drive series with György Német, once again there will be a Borterasz, on the occasion of the World Older Day we welcome our district pensioners with an outdoor operetta. In 2023, on the occasion of the day of Hungarian culture, we rebooted the classical music program of the city hall evenings. This year it will be 40 years since they laid the foundation stone of the part of the city on the sandhills of Kápszmegyer, and on this occasion an outdoor exhibition will take place. We're having a junior event at the apartment building. This year the daycare camp, the camping of disadvantaged children and the organisation of the Erzsébet camp will be an inevitable program. [[22.30]] In order to improve the ability of our kindergartens, the skakovi program, our kindergarten educators, psychologists, development educators, logopedics and physiotherapists were included in the training programme. We will continue this course in 2023, so that the children will arrive more prepared for our schools. In order to solve the mental and mental problems of teenage people, we will also be able to help next year with the initiative of the professional program, which we launched last summer. In 2023 we also think of young people who love to move, play sports, adults and families, along with running and cycling festivals, by organizing the second half marathon in Újpest. And let's be a surprise to the Újpest seniors for the fun that will be held in Tarzan Park, by the way. I think that in the last year, the Újpest people have taken a great part in Hungarian cultural life, since last year's events have been a great success. Here, however, the leaders of this city will not stop, they will continue to work, and in 2023 we will also be preparing special programmes. That's what I can recommend to you today. Visit us as many as possible, we'll be waiting for you. With all due respect, Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2023-03-27-280	Thank you, Congressman. Balázs Barkóczi, from the DK Group, applied for a post-meeting speech: Not even in the district. It's an address. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-03-27-281	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian mayors received a letter on 9 March, in which the national hospital director-general indicated that I would also like to nationalise outpatient care. Although there is a reason for harmonisation of professional care in official information, there can be no doubt that a further reduction in aid for healing may in fact be the real goal with this step. Of course, we should not say that we were surprised by this letter, since we should remember that during the pandemic, the government decree that the professional authority of the regional hospitals would be placed under the supervision of the specialised clinics, so that the 15th edition of the 15th edition of the Act on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law Then the Crown Virus Press Center said that this was necessary to ensure the implementation of the vaccination programme. We all know the results. Even though Viktor Orbán said that we will measure the success of defence in human lives, in Hungary we have lost 48,000 of our countrymen, with which we are among the world's top population-related deaths. The state-led health system failed during the epidemic, and the misguided government actions did not help, but threatened the 15th century directly. Circuit care. However, the district administration has done everything in its power to ensure that the health institution operates smoothly, and that the people living here are XXI. They should be treated in the first century. The institution operates in the current financing framework without creating significant systemic debt, in which the owner's municipality plays an extremely important role, which has spent an average of 500 million forints over 1 billion forints on average over the last three years. By doing so, the municipal subsidy rate reached 25 per cent of the actual revenues. But what does the state give, my fellow Members, on the other hand? The EUR 2 billion NEAK grant last year was increased by less than HUF 100 million. We should not have illusions, so the state will not give the specialists as much money as the municipality supports the service on an annual basis. But not only do we express the amount of support in numbers, in recent years we have renovated the Rákos travel clinic, we have purchased a CT machine from our own source, we have implemented extraordinary lab upgrades, and we have renovated the Heroes' travel practice to help 80,000 people live here with quality, accessible, free and fast health care, as well as a significant reduction in local waiting lists. Thanks to the measure, the transition to the medical service in the Dr. Vass László Medical Institution took place smoothly, all three of them did not sign the new employment contract. The letter from the workers here has shown that the measures listed above have given them a certain background that they have received with satisfaction. So let it be clear to everyone: we will not let the Orbán government, acting as a small ball, take our specialist clinics after our schools and educational institutions. I hope that the local government proposal will be voted on Thursday at the board meeting in accordance with Rule XV. The majority of the districts. We will not allow the 80,000 people who live here to suffer the einstantization of the property and assets of the specialist clinics. We will not allow our doctors to lead our clinics into debt spirals after public health, so that the waiting lists will grow again, so that the people who live here can travel for hours for proper specialist care. We will not allow the government, as long as loyal mayors are well compensated, to provide them with resources for operation and maintenance, to point fingers at local leadership next year with the bleeding of opposition authorities, so that they cannot even carry out their basic tasks. This is the most disgusting, two-faced and hypocritical Fidesz policy, to which the citizens of Rákospalota, Pestújhely and Újpalota said no in 2019 and 2022, as they will say no in the future. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2023-03-27-282	Thank you, Congressman. Andrea Hegedüs, from the DK Group, applied for a post-meeting speech:. What does the population of Miskolc wish? - 12 points with the title "Part I" of the Government. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2023-03-27-283	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much for the floor. We are still in the commemorative month of our national celebration, so in connection with this noble event, I symbolically organized the requests made at 12 points in my reception hours. Miskolcs say it's either too selective a memory of fidesz country leadership or inadequate to govern, or both claims are true. I was asked to remind you of your promises and your messed-up, messed-up investments. Let's look at the luxury investments first. The Castle of Diósgyőr is now known as a torso, and they are talking not only about static problems, but also about the need to change the failed plans to correct them. The contractor's down, the new stone tiles are falling off. The town's former Fidesz deputy mayor, the governor of the castle, and now his MP János Kiss, now that there is trouble, turned his back on the castle. You know, you're gonna get away with it, you're gonna get out of it, you're gonna get out of it, you're gonna get out of it, you're gonna get out of it, you're gonna get out of it, you're gonna It is expected that the HUF 2 billion will appear not only in the posts of János Kiss, but also in Miskolc's account. Let's look at another structure. There's no need for a special entrance, even on the huge glass walls, passersby can see the Ellipsum Experience Bath being rebuilt. They put it together for the elections to be passed on, and then quickly cut it off to the city to pass on the responsibility. The outer facade covers are unstable, the inner giant tiles are marvellous that they have not fallen to the guests so far. Don't you dare tell me it's been a year and a half since the handoff. Who's responsible? The Miskolcs ask János Kiss' fidesz homeboy. Now, let's see the signs for everyday needs. The residents of the city of Diósgyőr, Győr, Kilian and Majláth would like to know when the construction of the shopping centre promised by the representative of constituency No. 2 to the stadium will also begin during the elections. In addition to brutal inflation in Orbán and priceless food prices, it would be very necessary for people living here to save on petrol or bus tickets with an easily accessible shopping mall. Or is that just another fidesz promise? Let's look at the 1st constituency. Mrs Fidesz of Ms Miskolc promised to make an election promise to the trash storage problem of people on Avas. The underground waste bins are very much awaited by the Avasians. The request is not to include just five specimens, but to make sure that all parts of the town of Avas, as originally said, are available. [[22.40]] Let's look at the next movement. The road to Tisza Railway Station also requires post-production. The section of the road that is organically connected to the Y Bridge is filled with gaps and annoyance. People feel like they're falling down from the Y Bridge, like they're in the middle of an abandoned construction site. How no reply has been received from Parliamentary Representative Katalin Csöbör. The latest event: the Prime Minister recently spoke about the fact that the country will be a big power for battery production. He referred to three Eastern Triangle Pillars: Debrecen, Nyíregyháza and Miskolc. They tell the Miskolcs that battery company construction stop! Under no circumstances is such investment requested, not hidden behind the names of smaller firms, nor as investment for larger companies packed in expansion or capacity expansion. The Miskolcs call on the three Fidesz MEPs, Katalin Csöbör, János Kiss and Zsolt Kovács, to keep the interest of Miskolc from lobbying people like Mészáros. And here's the sequel. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-03-27-284	Thank you, Congresswoman. Zoltán Varga, from the DK Group, applied for a post-meeting speech: the debrecen community transport is dead. The mayor killed him. It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-03-27-285	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I'd be so, so happy as a city-loving, necky civier, if that title were too much, but unfortunately, every letter in this sentence is true. It was Lajos Kósa, who dug the grave of the public transport in Debrecen a decade and a half ago, and it is the current mayor, László Papp, who now throws the last shovels at him. It is practically unfit for urban transport, even according to the manufacturer, gold-priced buses manufactured for inter-local transport, for hours freezing in stops, for bus-sighing, wandering passengers, continuously thinned flights, ever-expensive season tickets and ticket prices, Horriable penalty items, and as a logical consequence, this is the characteristic of the increasingly low number of passengers in the Debrecen community transport. This is a vicious spiral, of course, because if there are fewer passengers, and because of the expensive, mindless fleet of vehicles in hell, the loss is increasing, to which the mayor's reaction could be a good fidesz habit, what else could it be like to raise the prices again, another price increase, another and more flight thinning. When Lajos Kósa knew how vague Debrecen had reorganized public transport in the hope of a business, he promised the city in 2008 that it would be profitable, European-class and very dense transport for the city. Today we are talking about the fact that the transport company in Debrecen is practically bankrupt, and the interest burden on the godless large loan rolled in front of you exceeds HUF 3.6 billion a year, while the municipal loss compensation paid each year is remembered, Lajos Kósa promised that there would be no loss compensation for the HUF 10 billion so that the Debrecen Transport Company would not have to close the blinds permanently so that it would not fail. Please, this is the end. Of course, according to the DK Group in Debrecen, there would be a solution to this, because for non-existent services that do not work, it is completely impolite to ask for money, so I should make it free, and I should add that community transport in Debrecen could be made available to all travellers. After all, the revenue from the ever smaller sales of tickets and rents is minimal, and the infrastructure reserved for the production, sale and control of tickets and rents is even more burdensome. László Papp, Viceroy of Debrecen Fidesz, refuses to even discuss DK's proposal. He says the city doesn't have the money for that. Therefore, in the last week, it has increased again the horror fare of Debrecen transport, which was already more expensive than the public transport prices in Budapest. There is money in the city, because we hear Fidesz propaganda, the city of Debrecen is raging, and the municipality of Debrecen, led by Fidesz, is playing to the church, for example, a billion-dollar municipal fortune. There's money for that. The city's future is toxic, Debrecent is XXI. Billionaire subsidies to build a battery factory, which is a world of 18th century cubists, battery workers trained in battery factories. There's money for that, too. There is also money for the billion-dollar municipal support of the state-funded luxury school run by the local government for the children of Fidesz kissers and politicians. According to the Governor of Debrecen of Fidesz, there is no money for trying to make public transport in Debrecen normal at all. Lajos Kósa and László Papp, the current mayor, destroyed the city's public transport with a noble simplicity, made Debrecen unlivable, and now they take away Debrecen's air, they take away his water, his lands, and we Debrecen will drink the price. For now, I have to add, for now. It's 2024, the mayor has to go, there's gonna be a new city run, it's gonna stop the battery companies, and it's gonna make Debrecen liveable. That's our job. We're gonna do it. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-03-27-286	Thank you, Congressman. After the agenda, Ferenc Varga asked for a speech. It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-03-27-287	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I have been here before, within the walls of Parliament, to draw attention to the inability of the system of minority self-governments, and although my proposals for amendment at that time were practically swept off the table by you, I have not given up my purpose. The system of national governments bleeding from a thousand wounds must be reformed. In order to see the size of the problem, I would like you to know that in 2019, at the 2019 municipal elections, 2188 local governments could hold their elections, of which 1208 Roma, 406 German, 116 Croatian and 112 Slovak municipalities could choose representatives, just to mention the most populous ones. According to the law, the municipal authorities are responsible for the operation of the national authorities, they are responsible for the provision of office space, the writing of the minutes, the clearance of any tenders and practically all the tasks related to the activities of the national authorities. Thus, if a minority self-government operates well, it is a serious burden for the otherwise bled municipalities with a lack of expertise and resources. This means that a determined national government is constantly facing walls and thus unable to carry out its task. The law on the rights of nationalities is extremely vague in terms of rights and obligations. But it's not enough for you. Instead of solving the problem, the government continues to undermine the system of minority self-governments. In recent years, the right to appeal to the scores of task-based support has been removed. Here, I would like to point out that, if we look only at the Roma minority self-governments, around one in three municipalities will receive an invalid rating in the system, even though the task-based support could give a significant majority of their budget. For a long time, cooperation agreements between municipal and ethnic authorities had to be reviewed every year, and this, even if it wasn't too much hope, gave the two municipalities an opportunity to resolve their differences, but you think it is enough to do so now after every election, i.e. every five years. The system of national governments bleeding from a thousand wounds must be reformed. Roma self-governments need to be able to do so, given the fact that the broken sections of Gypsy are facing far more problems than other nationalities, so that they can finally add even a little to catching up. If you have not done anything for 13 years, you will only put Flórians Farkas on our backs and use the Hungarian gypsy as a voting machine, then give us the opportunity for those who want to work for the Roma government to be able to prevail. [[22.50]] I will carry out the task that you will forget in almost every decision you make in the next period, as the commissioner of the government responsible for national governments of Klára Dobrev's shadow government. I will initiate a social consultation with the minority self-governments and civil society organisations that operate in our country, that is to say, they want to operate. Walking through the counties, I will contact the authorities and NGOs of all nationalities, tell them what problems they are facing, and I will confront you here in Parliament with reality. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-03-27-288	Thank you very much, Congressman. Judit Ráczné Földi applied for a post-municipal speech: the most dangerous hub in Hungary is the southern exit of Székesfehérvár near M7 and the so-called Auchan roundabout. What does the government do to make the node safer after the enlargement postponed in 2022? It's an address. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2023-03-27-289	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, There is a roundabout in Fehérvár that has never been seen by a government-wide press organ in 2018. Today, in 2023, the Székesfehérvár people are still waiting for the expansion of the roundabout, the roundabout construction, the cost of which was HUF 3 billion, while Székesfehérvár built a multi-storey with tens of billions of forints. As long as there's money for one, there's no money for the other. Who understands that? You know, 42 accidents occurred between 2017 and 19 on the affected section of motorway M7. There have been no such surveys since then, but unfortunately accidents involving personal injury are common. What does the government do to make the node safer after the enlargement postponed in 2022? We are talking about the investment that has been promised since 2014, the construction of which should have started in spring 2022. Instead of starting the investment, the mayor of the city was forced to announce a deferral of the investment in July 2022. The town's two individual MPs didn't need to speak. Yes, if bad news is to be reported, if the decision is to be taken for the wrong economic policy, then those Members will certainly be silent. The delay in the investment is justified by the government, as is so often the case: war in Ukraine, war sanctions, inflation, energy prices. However, there has been no shortage of promises since then, as it was also said in March this year that NIF Zrt. was involved in the reconstruction of Auchan's roundabout. would like to issue the procurement procedure for the execution as soon as possible. However, the people of Székesfehérvár and those in the node still cannot know when the essential enlargement will finally take place. This investment is important to emphasize not only the Székesfehérvár people, but also makes everyday life difficult for those from the surrounding agglomeration. We're talking about tens of thousands of people. People's lives are in danger every day. Travellers spend hours unnecessarily in the traffic jams, polluting the environment. It is quite clear to the people of Székesfehérvár, the inhabitants of the area and those passing by that way that the reconstruction of the Auchan roundabout in Székesfehérvár will not be delayed. Every day, I get more calls and they're confused about why they don't deserve safe transport. Small trains, castles, heated football fields, propaganda, and who knows what else they won't be sorry for. Then will people's safe transport, quieter transport, less environmental damage not be worth 3 billion forints? [[Applause in the ranks of DK and the independent.]]
u2023-03-27-290	Thank you, Congresswoman. Csaba Nagy, from the Fidesz Group, applied for a post-meeting speech with the title of the government's additional support for the complex tourism development of Szigetvár. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-03-27-291	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The government's additional support for the complex tourism development of the spa in Szigetvár was requested, as the President mentioned. Following the recent decision of the Government on 13 March 2022 in the framework of the operational programme for economic development and innovation, the Prime Minister signed the decision that the city of Szigetvár, together with the HUF 640 million government and European Union funding won in 2017, received a further HUF 647 million investment for years, which is 101 percent of the original aid. The city's representatives wanted to create a welcoming building and a recreational park from this competition, and they wanted to create an appropriate, experience-filled starting point for tourists. According to the original ideas, the construction would have started at the end of 2017 and it would have been completed in the first half of 2019, but unfortunately, although Balázs Rákossy was also a State Secretary with responsibility for EU funds, in April 2018 the investment itself stopped, as both the contractor and the technical inspectors noticed errors in the investment that had to be discussed. The result was that the construction stopped and the contract was broken, and the city was even in a very awkward situation, since in fact a police report had to be made about the negligence of the contractor. It was very important for this tourism investment that we wanted to extend the tourist season, and that the new building provided the opportunity to organise regular cultural programmes here. There were two very important options in the development of tourism, one in the development of the castle and the other in the development of the spa. As far as the spa is concerned, I can report that the city has won two applications within the framework of the operational programme for territorial and urban development, so there is a significant development of nearly HUF 300 million ahead of the spa. As regards the castle, we will present in the coming weeks the development that will renew the castle and our national memorial site from some HUF 1.8 billion. Here a new exhibition will be visited by the tourists arriving here, as well as the Kazamat series itself has been completely renewed. This was previously linked to a development where we could spend 400 million forints on the castle garden in Szigetvár, which was used to renew the environment that was worthy of the visitors. In this connection, I would also like to tell you that it is very important that the spa is also developed, so we hope that the Hungarian government and the EU proposals will also enable the development of this spa in the coming period. By means of the amount that exceeds HUF 1 billion 286 million, the city of Szigetvár can develop through government and co-financed support. With the additional resources provided by the government decision, after a long period of temporary incapacity, the visitors' centre can finally be completed, which serves both the benefit of the islanders and the people visiting the country, who want to see the national memorial place, our most heroic city. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2023-03-27-292	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I have the great news that we have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work, thank you for the work of your colleagues who have helped us today. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed.
