u2023-04-03-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 11th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, András Aradszki and Sándor Berki will help me. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, We will begin our work today with speeches before the agenda, from about 12:25 p.m. to about 13:40 p.m., and we will conclude the Parliament's meeting with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Member of the LMP Group, asked for a pre-meeting address on our current affairs. You have the floor.
u2023-04-03-1	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Welcome, everyone. We could start today's speech with the question of what will happen in Hungary to a water leader who will reveal the reality of a planned battery plant. But it would also be a very important question to start by how long the policy on which not only the population of many of the affected settlements, many thousands of Hungarian citizens, but now a multitude of professional public bodies, administrative authorities and experts raise their voices is going to continue, and on which it is clear that they will turn the lives of all Hungarian people on much better than we thought. I will make specific questions about battery production, battery manufacturing strategy, despite the fact that experience shows, unfortunately, at committee level, and here, that you do not like to talk about this issue in its content. But let us consider some specific examples. The fact that there has been chaos in the licensing of battery factories has been established not only by us, but also by the Hungarian Chamber of Engineers. Furthermore, an authorisation was issued for the battery plant planned for Debrecen in such a way that the necessary information and guarantees were not included in the licence application. This has also been stated by the Water Management Directorate of Tiszantúl. We can also conclude that you have not carried out the environmental strategic assessment required for the battery-producing strategy, and although there are many references to this particular grey water programme, there have also been no substantial progress in this respect. As Minister, László Palkovics said that battery production is not environmentally friendly and energy friendly. On the other hand, you like to keep quiet about the price you want Hungary to pay for this strategy. At one of last week's committee meetings, we learned from an Deputy State Secretary that you want to implement an industrial strategy that would increase Hungary's electricity consumption by 55 percent by 2030. We also had to find out from the press that you want to bring hundreds of thousands of foreign workers and migrant workers into the country. Let us look at the very specific points. The Hungarian Chamber of Engineers stated in connection with the Göd factory that the huge factory was authorised and could operate in such a way that the value of the actual use of water, energy and raw materials and its environmental emissions are not known. Also, the Chamber of Engineers concluded that the relevant Government Decree required an environmental authorisation procedure on the basis of the manufacturing activity, but this was not done. Again, I quote the Hungarian Chamber of Engineers, they say that it is not possible for the OSH authority to impose fines because of inadequate treatment of carcinogens or an unsafe environment for workers, while we can see that such procedures are carried out in series for existing factories and plants and fines are issued in this respect. The Tiszantúli Water Management Directorate found that the Chinese company requested an environmental permit to use the Debrecen plant without giving the submission how much water will be used each year. TIVIZIG also stated that although it was mentioned that this plant, the Chinese factory in Debrecen, would use grey water, no TIVIZIG experienced such a design process for any of the factories in Debrecen. It was also said that Debrecen, due to the emerging industrial water demand, has to redesign and rethink the entire urban drinking water, sewage and precipitation network, because the system so far will not be able to withstand the burden in a few years' time. Just a few references to official procedures. We all know that the largest battery processing plant in Europe is operating in the Bátony tere, and despite having received a lot of warnings from various administrations in advance, a so-called technological explosion may have occurred last year. The same company has an establishment in Szigetszentmiklós, where numerous fines have also been imposed for irregularities. It was found that many workers' health and physical integrity are threatened by the operation of the company. Still, the news says there was an accident on March 14, but there's a complete news blackout. My specific question to the secretary of state and to the gentlemen is why the government office has not taken into account the TIVIZIG warning that they could thus grant their approval to the Debrecen factory. Since the government is silent, the question arises as to what will be the fate of the head of the Tiszantúl Water Directorate after this opinion has been issued. In the case of the Samsung plant in Göd, the Hungarian Chamber of Engineers calls for a full environmental review, which would reveal in detail the real environmental effects of the plant. That's gonna happen, what do you know? If an existing factory ignores regulations in a series, are you ready to close this? Do you believe that the industrial strategy that would lead to a 55 percent increase in electricity consumption in Hungary within seven years is realistic? Don't you think that we should ask the Hungarian people about this, as well as the fact that they want to bring hundreds of thousands of guest workers into the country? Thank you for your patience, Mr President.
u2023-04-03-2	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Tamás Menczer wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2023-04-03-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I must tell you frankly that I am a little disappointed, and it is not my personal emotion that is interesting, but the cause of my disappointment, because with childish naivety I thought that you would stand up here today, Monday morning, within the framework of the speeches before the agenda, and you would say that you have thought about it this weekend, and you have realised that you were wrong when you did not support the peace declaration of the government and the ruling parties, you have thought about it, but you are wrong and you will stand up, support the peace and the peace declaration. It seems that my naivety as a child has led me to a dead end in this regard, and unfortunately you and the entire left still do not support the most important statement on the most important issue, the pro-peace declaration. You're still pro-war. Before I go to the battery factory, because, of course, I don't want to go around it, I would like to add that the first sentence of the pro-peace resolution is:, We express our commitment to peace. It is not clear what the left has to say about this. However, unfortunately, he did not speak on this point, but rather remain in favour of the pro-war position, so I must acknowledge and acknowledge with willingness, honourable Member, that it concerns an important issue. It concerns an important issue, and I understand from your speech in any way that you, you, the left, do not want, do not want battery factories. [[Dr. László Keresztes Lóránt: National Thinking...]] Honourable Member, you may be a national thinker, as you yell at it here, but you were also a member of a left-wing political community before the election, and since you say exactly what the other players say, you are now a member of the same community led by Ferenc Gyurcsány. Facts are stubborn things. [[11.10]] Honourable Congressman, So you and the left don't want a battery company. On the other hand, the whole world does, and the whole world is in competition for these battery factories, which you and you here are constantly trying to talk Hungary out of every Monday and Tuesday. I must say, honourable Member, that it is also true, of course, that this is a relatively new industry, and that the questions of the Hungarian people and, where appropriate, their fears can be understood and justified, which is why the most important answer must be given. My most important answer to your questions and all your questions is that all investors in Hungary must comply with the strictest safety and environmental standards. [[Dr. László Keresztes, Lóránt is intruding.]] Honourable Congressman, I've been listening to you, too, so please, let's just hang out for a few minutes. So this is true of battery companies and all other investors. In Hungary, safety and environmental standards that are stricter than EU standards must be respected. Anyone who doesn't respect them can't make their investment. And those who adhere to it can implement it, and there are competent authorities and professional organisations that supervise them. Let me get you something else, just in case we're talking about green questions. On the left is now clearly a competition to see who says they're greener. European Commission Vice-President Frans Timmermans, responsible for the European Green Agreement, said that the whole world is trying to produce e-cars. In Europe, we have to make massive batteries, said Frans Timmermans, your principle friend. [[Dr. László Keresztes, Lóránt is intruding. The president's ringing the bell.]] Those who are not so well friends with the Hungarian government cannot be accused of that. And let me bring you something else at the last minute. It is clear what is happening in Europe in the world economy and in the automotive industry. It has also been decided at EU level that after 2035 environmentally friendly cars can be manufactured; the switch to electric propulsion has been decided, it has political support, it has amazing forces behind it, economic forces are behind it, and it is impossible to come back from this street. In Hungary, the three large German car brands, premium car brands, build or operate factories, Mercedes, Audi and BMW; Germany can say that about itself, and China. Big car brands are Western, big battery companies, all ten of the largest, eastern, seven Chinese and three South Koreans. The fundamental interest of Hungary's economy, including the preservation, retention, development of jobs, wage development, economic development and economic growth [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It is a fundamental condition for Western car manufacturers and Eastern battery companies to meet here in Hungary. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-04-03-4	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, For a pre-meeting speech, Ms Szabó Timea, Head of Group, Dialogue Group on Current Affairs has applied. You have the floor.
u2023-04-03-5	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, It seems that the government, for its part, still sees the only communicable argument against battery companies as left, left, left. But the fact is, Mr Tamás Menczer, Secretary of State and my honourable fellow Members, that it is not the left who criticizes it, nor the left who claims that the battery companies installed here are seriously toxic, that they are destroying our best quality agricultural land, that they eat our drinking water resources, that they pollute our soil with carcinogenic, toxic substances, that they are right-wing organisations, or that they work for the government or that they are loyal to the government. Just today, economist László Csaba said that he has worked as an advisor to Viktor Orbán that battery production is a school example of the wrong track, of low added value, and that environmental regulations and environmental protection are completely ignored by this industry. György Matolcsy, President of the Central Bank, also elected by you, said that the relocation of battery production is a trap for Hungary; he also wrote about low added value and toxic production. As has been said here, Dániel Kincses, Director of TIVIZIG, Director of the Ministry of Interior, has been fired because he dared to criticize in a study the environmental authorisation of the Debrecen Battery Factory, and he has said that there is no mention of water use, for example, in any way that we know that Debrecen and its surroundings, the Great Plain, will remain years later without healthy, clean drinking water; drinking water problems will be faced by the public because of your nightmare, the battery production. And then, indeed, there is the Hungarian Chamber of Engineers, which, to put it mildly, cannot be accused of opposition, which has worked with the greatest loyalty in recent years. In February, the two statements in which they said that detailed and complete information and an in-depth analysis of environmental impacts were needed for the approval of battery factories, as according to the Chamber of Engineers, this did not happen. The Chamber of Engineers wrote that the official control of the authorisation and operation of the Göd factory could have been a model example and good practice to allow domestic investments in the future. Unfortunately, as the previous press reports and the public hearing held at the end of January prove, the environmental effects of the factory's operation are causing continuous complaints to the public; the actual water, energy and raw materials consumption and environmental emissions of the multi-staged Göd plant in its final form are not known. You keep saying that they're known, that we know these things, that you're referring to how green this is, and that you think this is the future industry. Compared to this, there are four countries in the world where there is no Ministry of Environment: Somalia, Tanzania, Saudi Arabia and Hungary. This tells us everything about how much your government and Viktor Orbán consider environmental protection to be an important area. As regards the Göd factory, Tamás Menczer said here that the strictest regulations must be followed and those who do not follow do not carry out the investment. Compared to that, the authorities punished the Göd factory 47 times. So what happened? They received a total fine of HUF 17 million. The Hungarian Chamber of Engineers says that once a carcinogen contaminates the soil with toxic substances, it must be closed immediately. 17 million forints for a billion-dollar battery manufacturer, nothing. You're going to let them destroy the country, our drinking water supplies, our top-quality farmland. In Rácalmas, Rákay Philip just bought an industrial park. Answer what the locals consider to be a fact [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] : Is there really a battery-destructor design there? The Dialogue-Greens demand that Hungary's poisoning be stopped, the battery nightmare stopped. Thank you. [[Applause from the benches of DK and MSZP.]]
u2023-04-03-6	Thank you. Time's up a long time ago. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government... [[It's a short break.]] I'm sorry, it's just that in the meantime, there was a quick polemic about who's going to be the responder. State Secretary Zsófia Koncz wishes to reply.
u2023-04-03-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, I would like to start by giving an extremely passionate speech on battery production. It bothers me so much in this whole debate, and I've already said this before, and I have to point out that you have a little bit of an interesting feeling, because, say, six months ago, a year ago, two years ago, the biggest supporters of battery production were opposition representatives, and I was even talking about it here. [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] whether with green politicians, how important it is for Hungary to keep up with, for example, electric cars. You even held a press conference in Dunaújváros about this (Szabó Timea intervenes.) Why the battery companies don't go there. [[11.20]] That's why I don't understand. And every party leader has always been there. [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] No, please, if I'm talking, I'm listening to you, and I think it's polite to listen to each other, and it's only fair to everyone. I always give respect when it's really, really hard on the other side. So I'd start here. That's why I don't understand the whole situation, what we're even talking about right now. But the fact that, in the case of such an investment, we are talking about what the locals are interested in is, of course, perfectly understandable, only the change of position so suddenly, so this is so interesting, I cannot understand this. (Szabó Timea interrupts.) As Prime Minister has repeatedly said, we can only confirm that we have the strictest environmental rules in mind, and this is important. In this regard, it must always be said that we pay attention to these things. But there's an incredible competition going on in the world. We have heard here that, by the way, green politicians are saying that Europe must also participate in this competition, as my fellow Member Menczer said. Technically, Frans Timmermans, who is not exactly our ally. [[Szabó Timea: It's not green!]] It is a European green politician who says that it is practically necessary to launch mass battery production in Europe in this situation. Germany is also involved in this competition and many European countries. We always look at us here in Central Europe. It is worth seeing what the others are doing, another Central European country. In this case, we can say that the Czech Republic and Romania are planning to do the same. The president of the Slovak automotive association said that the investment in Slovakia would be fatal if his country missed the opportunity to have its own battery plant. I think that there are many examples here that we can already find working factories in France, Spain, Italy, Britain, the Netherlands and Sweden. Madam Congresswoman, I always wonder when these debates go on, that you said that when we set out to create a million jobs, that it will not succeed. In 2010, the fact that we really started the country towards a work-based society was simply a key issue. I think that we were very proud of this, and we have the fundamental interest in participating in this competition, and the hundreds of thousands of jobs provided by the Hungarian automotive industry [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] You can take part in this race. Technically, we have already heard it, Minister of Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó put it this way recently. He said that our country is already the world's fourth largest electric battery manufacturer, the battery has been our number one export product for the last 13 months. So what we can say is that it is practically a well-known thing that is going on within the country, and it is practically a very important element and part of the Hungarian economy. So I would like to ask the congresswoman to be very consistent in this debate, not to feel that we are talking about this in practice for political gain. [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] But you can always say ugly things like that. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] But I think credibility is a very important thing and consistency. That's what we're really thinking, when we're here, that you're changing your position so often, they're probably putting it on the outside. So I would just like to confirm that the most important thing for us now is the Hungarian people, that we are protecting jobs, that Hungarian families have a safe livelihood, and that, moreover, yes, environmental aspects are of particular importance to the Hungarian government. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. Dr. Zsófia Koncz: Why do you keep shouting?]]
u2023-04-03-8	I thank the Secretary of State for her reply. Dear Parliament, For a pre-meeting speech, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of the European Union, Mr Mi Hazank Group on Current Public Affairs came forward. You have the floor.
u2023-04-03-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I had to learn from the HungarianNemzet.hu side that I was a pro-war and left-wing representative, combined with the rest of the representatives of the Hungarian Movement, and this is not exactly a April joke, because the pro-government newspaper, together with the list of pro-war left representatives, listed the 24 representatives who voted against Fidesz's so-called pro-peace declaration here in the National Assembly. The government propaganda has, of course, been known so far, so it is no longer necessary to present it, and it has been very cleverly tried to divert attention from this declaration, called the pro-peaceist, about the fact that the governing parties voted jointly with Ferenc Gyurcsány on a large coalition, the NATO expansion, which is another step towards the World War, and Finland's NATO accession. What really hurts me is that there wasn't a single Fidesz Member who at least abstained or voted no. As far as the so-called pro-peace declaration is concerned, the reason why the Hungarian Movement could not support it is because, on the one hand, it is not a pro-peaceist but, on the other hand, it condemns only Russia, which, in the language of diplomacy, is not, to say the least, a peaceful one. On the other hand, according to their custom, all of our amendments have been voted against, so we have not seen any compromises, nor any constructivity on your part, which we would have on the basis of our amendments. For example, they voted off the sentence that we would have put in that this was not our war, and it was not even Ukrainian-Russian war, but the United States of America and Russia. But we also voted against our amendment proposal that our eastern neighbour ignores our humanitarian aid and crushes the rights of the Hungarian minority living in its territory with two feet, literally eliminates it and disarms the region, we call on the government not to support Ukraine with a single forint and indirectly the war that, although not related to us, Hungarian soldiers will perish in it. We could also mention that this pro-peace declaration does not deal at all with, for example, the bombing of the leadership of the Northern Stream, which can also be classified as a terrorist act, a lot of things. Just as you never deal with condemning, for example, the military aggression of the United States of America or Great Britain or Israel, and we could still have a long list. For example, the United States has only caused the death of nearly one million people over the past two decades, based on a survey of the war price project at Brown University. On the contrary, let me prove in ten points that, unfortunately, the Hungarian government supports, openly supports, or even slylyly, Ukraine in the war. First of all, he has supported the economic war for the longest time, the sanctions to which Mr Orbán is unfortunately assisting, despite the fact that he should and could veto them, as sanctions against Russia have caused invaluable damage for years. At the same time, in parallel with the sanctioning of Russia, Ukraine is openly supported by the European Union, to which Hungary is also assisting, and Hungary is also openly offering various grants. It is often disguised as humanitarian aid, although the European Union is now openly talking about the purchase of ammunition, the purchase of one million artillery, let us say, but even when they are humanitarian aid, it is all that serves to allow Ukraine to spend its remaining resources on arms by transferring its own resources. Therefore, Ukraine should not be granted any support. Then, as a third point, they made our country a foreign military march area by allowing NATO combat groups into Hungary. Fourthly, I resent the possibility of moving arms to Ukraine through Hungary. Of course, sly government communication is that the Hungarian-Ukrainian border is not crossed by arms shipments, but there is a loophole, through Romania and Slovakia they can also use the territory of Hungary to carry weapons. It is also a shame for you that Hungarian-signed aircraft can carry weapons, as they were caught in the beginning of the war, when one of the Hungarian-signed C-17 aircraft of the NATO Heavy Air Transport Regiment stationed on the Pope delivered Panzerfaust 3 armor-piercing devices, shoulder-to-hand missiles to Ukraine, and we could list them according to the leaked photos. But let us also mention that they have also undertaken to secure the Baltic airspace with Hungarian Gripenek, and they have also come into conflict with Russian fighters, just as it is also your shame, as a seventh point, that they have also undertaken to protect Slovakia's airspace with Hungarian Gripenek, so that they can give the MiG-29s to Ukraine. Then it was leaked that Ukrainian soldiers were also involved in the training of health professionals in Hungary [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And the Prime Minister didn't deny my intel that we supported this war with fuel. The biggest shame on top of all this is that the Hungarian blood sacrifice is the largest after Ukrainian and Russian, the Hungarian soldiers are being used as bullet-catchers, and Hungary is also assisting in this, unfortunately. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-04-03-10	Thank you, Deputy Group Leader. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. You have the floor. [[11.30]]
u2023-04-03-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Anyone who listens a little bit to the parliamentary debates may be aware of the strange fact that the opposition is simultaneously claiming that there are some kind of Putin pantyhose in the government, or, if I understand correctly, that the government is extremely pro-American. Make up your mind at some point. It also draws our attention to the fact that there is a fundamental difference in attitude between us. If we look at these positions about foreign policy, war, peace, arms, from over there, we see that they are constantly measuring how many centimeters, how many meters, how many kilometers away the Hungarian position is from the positions of other countries or dominant power centers. This government doesn't work that way, it looks at what's in the country's best interests. And the decision that you're referring to, you're trying to gather, you've gathered what are the major node issues that we're looking for here, and it's important to state. As regards the question of war: allow me to draw attention to a few phenomena, also because Europe's security and economic prospects are fundamentally determined when the war will end and how far it will go. Unfortunately, the events of the past few weeks were not at all about getting closer to the peace process. A few examples to support this. The German Government has announced that it will support Ukraine with an additional EUR 12 billion worth of war material. The first German Leopard tanks arrived on the battlefield the other day. Spain has tanks like this, and after Easter they will transport ten of these types, from this type to the war zone. The British aren't sending Leopard tanks, they're sending Challenger 2 tanks, they've already arrived in Ukraine. In addition to sending tanks, there are a number of countries on the agenda to send fighter jets. A decision has already been taken in three countries. So they could arrive, so the Slovak MiG-29s could arrive in the war area. [[Gergely Harvester: Thanks to the Gripens!]] And to tell you one more thing, according to Reuters, the United States is going to announce a $2.6 billion weapons package these days. This alone means a thousand billion forints of support. The worrying thing is that few people talk about peace, the more people talk about escalation plans. This was also reflected in the resolution adopted by the European Parliament a few days ago. That is why we believe it is important that the Hungarian Parliament has established its pro-peace position in a resolution. A decision always lays down the basic questions. We may agree that there are a lot of aspects of this war, of the events that are still worth explaining, but these are the most important issues in our view. And a vote is always a watershed, which is when we find out who supports what after the preliminary explanations. The fact is, and the sad fact is that this resolution was supported by the government parties alone. All this without a single point in this decision which would not be eligible if a Member first of all wanted peace. If you're even over there looking at it with those glasses, what's good for this country. One year ago, the result of the elections played a huge role in bringing the country closer to the war. [[Gergely Harvester: Because you lied!]] It's been over a year, and nothing's changed. [[Gergely Harvesto: You're still lying!]] And it doesn't matter how they explain their vote on Friday, one thing has come to light: if you want peace in this situation as soon as possible, then you can only count on the governing parties. As far as your vote is concerned, many of us are surprised by this vote, because it is a party which claims to be a national party. Allow me to say that the Jobbik also stepped on this journey, defined himself as a national party, and then, after a few years, he was completely united and completely likened the left. [[Gergely Arató: You voted with Gyurcs on NATO enlargement!]] I hope that's not what this is about in your case. Soul on it! Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-03-12	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Ander Balázs, Mr Jobbik Group, spoke with a title on current affairs. You have the floor.
u2023-04-03-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, For Jobbik-Conservatives, the new status law and draft professional law designed for teachers working in public education must be completely rejected, as this is a disaster, an assassination of public education, and thus an assassination of the future of the Hungarian nation. It may be possible to cripple the nation's day laborers into government servants, but it will not cause prosperity. In fact, the troubles, the problems, will continue to grow, even to the point that they will not be swept under the carpet with a staff of interior ministers. [[Bence Rétvári: Na, na, na!]] But it's true, no matter what they growl from a pro-government side. A new turn in Klebelsberg would be needed, but this would require an appreciation of teachers in both moral and material terms. Such legislative proposals or drafts do not serve this purpose; this will not work. Let us see that not so long ago, the two-thirds of what the EU has promised in relation to EFOP Plus money. I would read: "The government and Parliament will not unilaterally introduce rules to increase the workload of teachers, restricting existing professional autonomy or reducing the attractiveness of the profession. Such action shall be taken only on the basis of a meaningful social dialogue with the largest pedagogue trade unions, in particular by seeking consensus on acquired rights. Well, against promises, reality is much, much sadder than that. And when it comes to Brussels money, let's get one thing straight from the beginning. These resources are for Hungary, not some kind of Western charity for the Hungarian nation. However, Secretary of State, they do not come to our country to build castles without forests and for one of the Döbögs. Secondly, it must also be made clear that you always link teacher wage arrangements to Brussels. We have told you a thousand times and we will tell you on one thousand individual occasions that after the Trianon disaster, Klebelsberg did not lock out in Paris in order to obtain funds to bring home education to order, but created national resources. You should do the same. We need to say a few more words about Hungarian competitiveness. What is the Hungarian competitive advantage? Obviously, depending on how people think about the country's future, there are several possible responses. According to neoliberal sociopathic dogma, the Latin American model is the way forward for Hungary. What did Viktor Orbán say in 2014 to Arab investors in Saudi Arabia, Riyadh? What were you trying to lure them here with? The Prime Minister said that the Hungarian labour force is surprisingly cheap compared to its quality, and the Labour Code is extremely flexible. In other words, the competitive advantage for eviscerated and underpaid Hungarian workers. They're on the right track if that's what they want to follow. 30 percent of Hungarian society does not have any savings, the other 40 percent has two to three months' reserves. Romanian GDP has reached the Hungarian level, and in the meantime, we are virtually ahead of Bulgaria in terms of average wages. However, there is another model of conservative competitiveness in contrast to this kind of competitiveness. [[Bence Rétvári: Come on, let's hear it.]] This is all about, Mr Secretary of State, citizens living in financial security with relevant knowledge to form the widest platform in society. That's what Széchenyi and your Matolcsy said, by the way. So it should be based on education and knowledge. Let's ask a rhetorical question. Does a new feudal system need people with self-respect and knowledge? If we look at the latest report from the National Sustainable Development Council, we can give some answers on this. Let's see: PISA results show declining results in decades of outlook. Then, the rate of the most crumbling is still very high, so the number of early school leavers in Hungary is horrific. Let's see how many people, let's say, participate in adult education. Half of the EU average. The teacher's career has also grown old, many more retire and run away from the teaching career than the number of people who start teaching. And the thing is, with these proposals that you have presented to us, you cannot find a cure for the problems that arise by reducing the freedom of teachers, increasing the burden of teachers and destroying the prestige of the field. Secretary of State, I'm waiting for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2023-04-03-14	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári wishes to respond. You have the floor. [[11.40]]
u2023-04-03-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We saw the turn of Klebelsberg in Jobbik: the mayor of Ozdon did nothing else at the time, we do not know exactly what he will be called next year, so your mayor did nothing but reduce the wages of the people working in public education and culture by 25 percent when there was an epidemic. The party that got away from where he was responsible for a small part of public education, and in this part reduced wages, demands a wage increase here in Parliament, so you obviously do the same thing as your allies, who in 2008-2009 paid Hungarian teachers the price of the bad economic policy at the time, and took a month's wages from teachers, took away the 13th month's wages, reduced the annual income of teachers by 8 percent. You've raised the bar, you've reduced the income of teachers by 25 percent in the city where you run the city. So much for your credibility. The Jobbik is in a lot of swings, and now we've learned that you're not even Jobbik next year. Such a search for identity, let's say, is not unique on the left, but I think it shows that your principles and their names are like a coat, changing it from season to season, honourable Member. But we're thinking long-term. I hope it was only a slip of the tongue on your part when you said in your speech that these resources basically do not belong to Hungary. These resources do belong to Hungary. [[Ander Balázs: They're coming! Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks: They're coming! The president's ringing the bell.]] Mr. President, [[Interview from Jobbik's ranks: Read it! Gergely Harvesto intervenes. Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] It explains a lot, but...
u2023-04-03-16	My fellow Members, I would like the dialogue to be suspended, and the Secretary of State will respond. Thank you. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2023-04-03-17	In fact, we don't have the Dialogue in Parliament right now, but I'm sure they're looking for their new green identity. But in return and seriously speaking, you have said that you are rejecting all of your objectives from the first letter of this amendment to the last letter of this amendment. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That was not said! Dr. Brenner Koloman: That didn't happen either!]] This amendment includes the highest wage increase in the last 33 years, which will increase the wages of teachers by 75 percent in three years in order for a Hungarian educator to actually have a salary for an intellectual way of life. You reject that. In this proposal, in December last year, when 400 school directors and 400 school representatives were called to the National University of Public Service for a full-day consultation, everyone agreed! , that teachers' wages should be set in proportion to their performance [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes.]] and this gives us the opportunity to increase the wages of young teachers starting their careers even more. Because you were talking about coming to more young beginners, and then to a proposal that raises the wages of early school teachers in an even greater proportion, you say that you reject the first to the last letter. There are such contradictions in your sentences, honourable Member, it is difficult to follow. [[Ander Balázs: In the bill!]] What we're trying to do is really [[Gergely Arató: The host has the problem, not the text! The president's ringing the bell.]] who doesn't teach 22 hours a week, but 26 hours, make more money; who organizes more programs for his class within teaching time, earn more [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: A text understanding seminar must be held!]] ; who brings more talented children to the competition, make more money; who spends more time with children in the summer, earn more; who deals more with children who are behind, who brings more catching-up programs within his class, who pays more attention to those who have more difficulty in their family background, so it's harder to study, so make more money by calling it a public education employment relationship. Because you're saying that teachers should have the same payroll as a doctor, or a nurse, or a public servant, as a social worker. We believe that there is a difference between these professions and that the terms of a teacher's salary should be determined differently than that of a social worker, a doctor or a cultural worker or others who have received public service salaries for the past 20 to 30 years. This is our current proposal, by the way... You said we didn't talk to anyone about this, so how do I put it? The roof of the building is strong, though. [[Gergely Arató: We have experienced this in the past four minutes!]] We had a general discussion on it between 2 and 10 March; we had a direct consultation with the representatives of interest groups, including those which, by the way, do not meet the threshold of representativeness, on 6 March, 13, 16 and 17; we discussed it at the Public Education Round Table on 9 and 22 March in the National Public Education Council; and indeed, in the last few weeks, the door is given to each other at the Education State Secretaryship by the various public education organisations, interest representatives and other organisations, because we are constantly agreeing on this proposal, which is a large wage increase. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] and offer wage for performance in order to improve the quality of Hungarian education. We regret that Jobbik cannot support the government's positive proposal on this issue, but as we see it, [[The president's ringing the bell.]] You can't even decide exactly what your name is. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-03-18	I thank the Deputy Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, For a pre-meeting speech, Ms Zita Gurmai, Deputy Head of the Group, MSZP Group: on current issues. You have the floor.
u2023-04-03-19	Thank you very much. Dear House, In 1989, the change of regime was about wanting a country where we weren't forced by a party's ideology. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Bence Rétvári: 1.2 percent!]] where the party propaganda machine does not determine our opinion, and where not a narrow political elite tells us who is good and who is bad. We wanted a democratic country, a society where all Hungarians are equal, all people can think freely, speak their political views, live freely, enjoy free love, practice their religion or traditions, even if it is not exactly the same as the majority framework, and can do so without the state not only giving them this freedom, but also giving them full protection. Now, 34 years later, in a quasi-one-party system, the state party determines [[Bence Rétvári interrupts.]] What is the only good opinion, what is the only ideology to follow and who is the good or bad person. The almost Goebbels propaganda machine [[Eszter Vitalos: What?!! Bence Rétvári: Oops! Oops!]] And by making the people hate each other a little against a little different opinion, thought, or ideology, and by attacking fellow humans who do not want to live a hundred percent by the taste of the government party's mouth. The fact that I am free to express my political opinion and criticize the government in a tight time frame here is a thin consolation, cannot be done by any Hungarian person without, say, putting his job at risk. [[Bence Rétvári: Say one thing!]] Because there is such a hatred against dissidents that anyone who is not full of religious devotion must die. Here, unfortunately, within the walls of the House, there are personalist, encapsulated homophobic, anti-Semitic, anti-Roma or demeaning remarks which are not in place in the Parliament, nor in the case of growlings, as I speak. But the fact that there is no general rhetoric here in Parliament is due to the fact that there may still be some kind of respect for each other in the Members of Parliament or not. But it's also a thin consolation, because our countrymen outside the House are no longer so fortunate. Hate politics built by the Orbán government in an accuracy and freed-up hate speech drive people in such a way that the price of the not-perfect Fidesz countrymen are degraded to second-class citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, Inciting hatred, hate speech is the most serious when it comes from power or with the approval of power, and what seems to unfold at present is that hatred and hate speech are an integral part of the government party's toolbox. Viktor Orbán has long since given up being the Prime Minister of all Hungarians, he only wants to meet those from whom he hopes to vote. [[Bence Rétvári: You!]] It encourages its own voters to be hostile, to be excluded from all those who are more vulnerable than themselves. After the decline of xenophobia, it became clear that anyone of the Hungarian people could be a target of hatred if the interests of power so desired. Roma is our fellow human beings, fellow human beings of other religions, or our most heavily attacked LGBTQ people: they are now the main targets of the government's hate policy and hatred-promotion, and they are involved in the continuous hate speech. When, in political communication, or even at legal level, pedophiles and homosexuals are deliberately washed together, well, that's state hate. When the editor-in-chief of the highly government news portal, András Bencsik, in News TV owned by the Orbán government and stuffed with public money, rejoices that the LGBTQ people in Uganda will be be beheaded, the state hate speech. And what happens next? Nothing. They took the video down like it never happened. And if, on an independent television, the editor-in-chief of an independent news portal had been able to say that it was okay to kill Christians in an Asian country, then the government censor, the Media Council, would have been sent on the channel by now, all government propaganda media would condemn that editor in a separate show and editorial and demand his head, and Fidesz's extreme right-wing glove puppet, and our Hazák would already protest in front of that TV headquarters. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I ask you not to be part of this process, which denies the principles of the regime change 34 years ago, democracy and equality. I ask you not to support political ideas and the use of political instruments that turn Hungarian people against Hungarian people. I ask you to put an end to this hatred, not to mediaize hate speech, but to prevent it by all means. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]] [[11.50]]
u2023-04-03-20	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári responds. You have the floor.
u2023-04-03-21	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Speaking of hatemaking, let me share a quote with you. I'm telling everyone, especially those who didn't vote, that you can't do this to us. Shame on you, Momentum, MSZ and Dialogue! If anyone does this to us, that's what's gonna happen. Everyone who attacked us in the last few weeks, I told them you were gonna lose him. That's how your own leader talks to you and you, Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[Gergely Harvesto: Our leader, not theirs.]] Either way, you can split it up, I wouldn't interfere with this debate. [[Kálmán Olga: Is this the same as decapitation? The president's ringing the bell.]] Speaking in the voice of hatred... Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You are allies, you supported each other in the election, in principle. [[Kálmán Olga: Oh, how weak!]] You campaigned side by side, it is true that on the day after the election, a year ago, the elections were held, on the night of the election they were at each other's throats, and the next day, in the media, well, that's how Ferenc Gyurcsány talks to you, the leader of the left. On the one hand, you will tolerate this, well, you can do nothing but tolerate it by 1.2 percent, but on the other hand you will stand up while you speak to each other on the left with such a hateful voice, thus demeaning you and educating you in seconds, on the other hand, you will speak of peace when [[Gergely Harvester: What about Bencsik? Kálmán Olga: I can't believe it! The president's ringing the bell.]] Ferenc Gyurcsány talks about the fact that after the 2026 election, there will be parties that will close the blinds and help to close the blinds. This is how Ferenc Gyurcsány talks about you because you are part of the one-percent roll-down circle of Jobbik-LMP-MSZP-Palogue [[Kálmán Olga: Very weak!]] And he lectures Gergely Karácsony, Ferenc Gyurcsány, that it is not necessary to coordinate with the government, but to attack the Orbán government, that he believes that it is not his duty to coordinate with government members in the affairs of the city, but that it is the primary task of the Mayor. You will then talk about how toxic the tone of hatred is, honourable Member. But if you were talking about the attack on Christians, about Péter Niedermüller, who said that white Christian men and women are terrifying formations, I somehow did not feel this profound indignation and human rights attitude, that it could not be said about the people who made up the overwhelming majority of the Hungarian population here in Hungary, but it could continue to function, as mayor, as a leading politician, and this is part of your policy. [[Kálmán Olga: Say a word about Benchik.]] For some reason, when Ferenc Gyurcsány humiliates you in a hateful tone in public, or so they talk about Christian people, you never condemn them, you always overlook them. As regards the LGBT question, [[Kálmán Olga: Finally! The president's ringing the bell.]] Madam honourable Member, there was a referendum for the day exactly one year ago. [[Gergely Harvesto: The decapitation?]] That was 3.6 million people voting in one direction. [[Kálmán Olga: The decapitation? What are you talking about?]] From the last 30 years you have not found, and even from 35 years, if we went back to the time of the regime change, you will not find very many questions that 3.6 million people have voted in the same direction since the regime change, since the first Antall government was founded. 3.6 million people! This is much bigger than the Fidesz-KDNP polling camp. This shows that this issue, the LGBT issue, goes far beyond the circle of the Fidesz-KDNP electoral camp. This is a matter over parties, and you say exactly the entire LGBT ideology and genderideology on the one-year anniversary of the referendum that has rejected the most in the past, that Hungarians are xenophobics, and this is xenophobia. [[Kálmán Olga: What is decapitation?]] Don't you see? You are obviously blinded by the $4 billion that came from abroad, and from now on you can only say what you expect from abroad, and therefore you cannot take into account the 3.6 million people who have given greater support to this issue since the change of regime than our accession to NATO, our accession to the EU or the issue of migration. More important than all of them was the protection of children, the protection of families, and on the one-year anniversary of this in an extremely tasteless way, in an anti-democratic way that ignored people, on this one-year anniversary, the message of the left is that it is xenophobia. [[Kálmán Olga: Beheading what?]] We reject this on behalf of 3.6 million people. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-04-03-22	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I think it's much better if we listen to each other. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Arató, Deputy Head of the Group, DK Group, applied for a pre-meeting address on current affairs. You have the floor.
u2023-04-03-23	Well, please, first of all, it's not a final certificate, it's just a kind of print that's been temporarily distributed to me. Today is the six-month certificate day, it doesn't mean anything. The others did get the certificate, but mine had to be sent up to the Ministry, because there were errors that had to be corrected as a matter of urgency. Indefinitely, Karinthy remembers the immortal words of my certificate, when he listens to government members explain why Hungary still has not received the EU funds for it. The government's deadline for itself has expired, nothing has happened, nothing has been made. And what does the supposedly responsible minister say? According to Tibor Navracsics, there was no slippage, and that is not the appropriate expression that the commitments made for EU funds were not fulfilled by the government by the deadline, because Brussels indicated that it was okay to adopt legislative proposals that were important to him later. Of course. Fidesz, I'm sorry, KDNP has no problem, just the Hungarian citizens, the economy, the country. But for them, it's a big problem. One and a half million forints, that's the stakes of every citizen from the infant to the aged, from the beggar to the Prime Minister, the newest gambling of the government. One and a half million forints per person, the Hungarian citizens may fall from EU support because of the irresponsible nature of the government. It's the kind of money this country desperately needs. This could improve the situation in education and health, improve roads and railways, cities and villages, protect against climate change and reduce overhead bills. It could be, I'm telling you, only if the government doesn't play this opportunity, and of course, if they don't steal most of the money afterwards. They promised to submit it to Parliament by 31 March and to accept the necessary legislative amendments. It wasn't filed and it wasn't accepted. You might think it's the usual incompetence, after all, it was your justice minister who said he didn't even know what that rule of law meant, but it's obviously different now. The truth is, you have failed patriotism again. For if they had fulfilled the conditions of the rule of law, they would have had to give up part of their unlimited power and, above all, give up the possibility of unlimited theft. You've been chosen, and you've failed. Viktor Orbán, Fidesz and KDNP have more important pockets and power than the fate of the country. Shame! Klára Dobrev's shadow government is made up of responsible patriots, which is why we have done the work for you. The DK Group has submitted a package of laws that would allow EU funds to arrive on Hungary immediately. Among other things, the proposal restores the independence of the judiciary, strengthens the role and powers of the National Judicial Council, restores the independence of the Constitutional Court, guarantees that judges, constitutional judges and court leaders should be appointed not on a political basis, but on a professional basis, bans politicians from university curators and requires the members of the board to be elected by the citizens of universities. It creates the conditions for accession to the European Public Prosecutor's Office and the conditions for the proper work of the Public Prosecutor's Office, facilitating the detection of corruption offences. There is no question that this is a fundamental national interest. This is something that we have to put into law, not because it is necessary or necessary for EU funds, but because Hungarian citizens deserve to live in a state of law, like other European citizens, so that EU funds and public funds are not stolen, not turned into a tree-free canopy, not given to Lőrinc Mészáros for the development of solar panels, and I can go on indefinitely. [[12.00]] This bill is in the fundamental interest of Hungary, the Hungarian citizens. Of course, it is also in the fundamental interest of Hungarian citizens to obtain these resources. You are once again faced with a decision. They're taking another test for patriotism. Once again, they can decide whether to insist on their unlimited power and theft or to look at the country's interests. If the latter, then support the inclusion of this bill first and then its inclusion on the agenda and finally its adoption, because it is the fate of the country. I have to say that it is once again clear from this case that only the shadow government is a hope for Hungary, only the shadow government is also a hope that Hungarian citizens will have access to the EU funds they deserve. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-04-03-24	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2023-04-03-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As I understand it, you have tabled a legislative amendment to bring back EU funds. It's been a long time since I've seen more hypocrisy. Because if you want to know what it is really about, if you look at the debate on EU money, it's not your speech, it's the amendment proposal, it's the party presidents, it's the boss's sentences. A few days ago, he published his position on his social media site, and he spoke with quite astonishing openness that you are working to ensure that the EU does not give us the EU funds that we need.... [[Kálmán Olga: Don't steal it! That's a big difference. The president's ringing the bell.]] Before yelling louder, allow me to quote what he said: "Yes, we are working to raise conditions for the European Union to break down, at least to weaken Orbán's world. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, [[Gergely Harvesto: That's right!]] This direction was later confirmed in an interview. [[Zsolt Gréczy: This is the job of the opposition!]] Here he said that in Brussels 27 so-called super-milestones are linked to the payment of EU funds, and he himself said these conditions, that this is a legal gown intended to break down this system. Clear words, clear, scandalous, and undemocratic. Because they also show that there is no need for democracy, there is no real rule of law here, but rather that the results of the elections are being overwritten from here and from Brussels. Now we understand why they want a fifth amendment to the property declaration system. You see, they asked for amendments four times, and then they want a fifth, as if Hungarian democracy would turn on this. [[There's a grumble in DK's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] We therefore understand why in the field of education there are criticisms of solutions that are in Germany, Austria, France, all of which the European Union does not have any competence in the field of education. Now we understand why they come up with new conditions by amending the laws 17 times, by amending the Hungarian laws in 17 places last autumn, and they said that it was enough. So, we understand why you want to do this. On the one hand, because in Brussels they want a change of direction in Hungarian war policy [[Gergely Harvesto: Come on!]] on the other hand, because you want a change of government, and you want to do so by withholding funds from Brussels. [[Gergely Arató: The process has been going on for three years!]] That is why, when it comes to voting here in this House on the necessary legislative amendments to the agreement, how do you vote: you do not support it. I can see why Congressman Arato is tampering with his phone right now. Because when it comes to voting, they do not support the fact that these funds reach Hungary. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] So what we're saying now is that the country didn't get the funds it needed, and the left-wing parties got it in dollars and billions. [[Kálmán Olga: Simple, no need to steal the money!]] The word we're looking for after this is the word "shame." Honourable Congressman, I ask you to tell your boss that exactly a year ago, the Hungarians made it clear what they wanted: they want peace and growth, and a government that looks to the interests of the country in decisive matters. You campaign to hold back EU funds, support harmful sanctions [[Kálmán Olga: Amit Orbán signs!]] And they'd drag this country into the war even more, and with those actors who, in economic terms, have already kneeled down this country once. This is the policy to which the Hungarians said no on 3 April last year. They said no, and if there were elections today, they'd still say no loudly today. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zsolt Gréczy: Ask Matolcsy! Kálmán Olga: Corruption was also refused!]]
u2023-04-03-26	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Imre Vejkey, Deputy Head of the Group, KDNP Group, applied for a pre-meeting address with the title "Our current affairs". You have the floor, Deputy Group Leader.
u2023-04-03-27	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Last November, during the parliamentary campaign period, the press was loud. It turns out they were trying to influence the outcome of the elections from abroad with campaign support. They didn't have a hard time, because we know it's easy to get Kata to dance. From abroad, the dollar left and even their opinions were bought for billions of forints. Ladies and Gentlemen, We now know that approximately HUF 4 billion of support has been received from the dollar left through Action for Democracy, an American organization, and a foundation registered in Switzerland. But the dollar left took a vow of silence. When they were asked about the rolling dollars, they either didn't answer, or they went into a spiral of lies. [[Kálmán Olga: What about the ruble?]] They claimed that their funding was transparent and turned out to be a lie. They claimed that it was just a few hundred million forints of funding that turned out to be a lie. They claimed that they collected micro-donations from the U.S. organization's website turned out to be a lie. Ferenc Gyurcsány directly claimed that he was unaware of foreign campaign subsidies, so his party couldn't use it, it turned out to be a lie. [[Kálmán Olga: Where exactly did this come out?]] Ladies and Gentlemen, It's a good thing Péter Márki-Zay's memory is okay, and he remembers exactly everything, including what you don't remember right now. For example, he remembers that the last time the parties on the left knew about the rolling dollars was when they demanded for themselves the amount that was left of them, so to speak, after the elections. But when the scandal of rolling dollars came to light, they suddenly denied everything, even though they should know that a lying man would be caught before a lame dog. Ladies and Gentlemen, In view of the above, it is no wonder that the dollar left regularly represents the position that is wrong for our country. [[Kálmán Olga: Like what?]] Remember the wise saying: Money talks, dog barks [[Kálmán Olga: Oh, how beautiful!]] which means that the dollar left should represent the interests of their foreign clients for money, the interests which are in direct conflict with the interests of Hungary, and thus with the policies of the civil government. That's why they're against us. [[Kálmán Olga: For you steal!]] because it is important for us to preserve national sovereignty, to protect Christian values, to curb illegal migration [[Kálmán Olga: Theft of public money! Hate politics!]] and the protection of borders. They're against us because we're on the side of peace. [[Kálmán Olga: Putin's party! The president's ringing the bell.]] They are against us because their foreign clients are pro-sanctioned and pro-war. So today we have come to the point that the dollar left is working against the interests of our country, taking into account foreign interests. Why? For money and to gain power. Ladies and Gentlemen, If that were not enough, another amazing self-discovery statement was given by the candidate of the fallen Prime Minister of the Left this time on the 29 March 2023 television in Hódmezővásárhely, where he was asked about the one million HUF court punishment. Péter Márki-Zay explained that he would pay the one-million-dollar fine from campaign funds from America without going bankrupt. The question is, you can sink deeper than that, obviously poetic. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Soros network has already had a substantial influence on domestic policy processes in a number of regional countries. [[12.10]] In Hungary, the Soroses see their political and social ideas enforced by helping the left to power. In order to achieve their goal, they do not shy away from any means, as Prime Minister said: the entire left has joined forces against the governing parties, Brussels has tried to dry out the treasury, and Uncle Gyuri has rolled their $4 billion from America to give their comrades what to shoot at us. But they're out of control, they're out of control again. Election wins aren't usually just thrown at people, especially the two-thirds. There's work behind it, the result of the work [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] What people appreciate. Ladies and Gentlemen, The moral and political responsibilities of this unprecedented attempt to intervene must be found and answered. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-03-28	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Répássy Róbert wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor.
u2023-04-03-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Your words were accompanied by rather impatient and loud yellings from the left in recent moments, but I don't know why they didn't say so when Péter Márki-Zay accepted these billions. [[Kálmán Olga: Because we didn't know.]] It would have been better if it had been clarified that, according to Hungarian electoral rules, this consensus has not been possible to accept foreign support for decades; we cannot allow them to influence the elections in Hungary with foreign support. But in addition, the law, as well as the law, says that parties cannot accept support from a legal person at all, nor can they accept foreign aid, so they can only accept it from domestic individuals; it is the law. The President of the State Audit Office, who had been heard last week, said that, unfortunately, on the basis of previous investigations in these cases, there is a thorough suspicion of illicit party financing, which, of course, concerns the party of Márki-Zay, but because of the support of several other opposition parties from his cash register, his account, i.e. the opposition party in their electoral alliance, this is also a prohibited party financing, according to the practice of the State Audit Office. Of course, I do not wish to advance the position of the State Audit Office, which will happen, but I believe that what you have said, that those responsible must be found and those responsible must take responsibility for this, we can expect not only for moral reasons, but also because that is what the law requires. So our laws also require that here, yes, there must be consequences. But the kind of cynicism that the left is handling this case is really the bottom of everything, so to speak. While yelling from their throats at all kinds of abuse of public money, when they have such abuses, they hide from statements, they dare not take responsibility. [[Kálmán Olga intervenes.]] They blame the people or politicians who are not present, they never got a single penny. Of course, it's been denied by every investigation I've had. It is quite clear that that nearly HUF 4 billion reached the left-wing campaign, so it is clear that they all used this money. [[Kálmán Olga: They didn't know about it.]] Of course, to different degrees, but it doesn't change their responsibilities. Honourable Congressman, I believe that the Parliament will continue to address this issue, especially because the State Audit Office report will be presented to Parliament, so there will be an opportunity to learn about this responsibility and the facts in detail. I highly recommend to the Parliament that, in the meantime, we monitor, not to mention that there are even criminal proceedings in progress, because what has happened is not simply a violation of party law, but, where appropriate, a violation of other laws. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-03-30	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, János Halász, Deputy Group Leader, Fidesz Group, applied for a pre-meeting address with the title of our current affairs. You have the floor, Deputy Group Leader.
u2023-04-03-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The war has been going on in Ukraine for 14 months now. Our eastern neighbor is having bloody fights right now. According to the most careful estimates, there are hundreds of thousands of dead and severely injured. The fronts are stiff, the number of meaningless victims is increasing. Dear House, The Fidesz faction has been pro-peace since the outbreak of the war, and we urge an immediate ceasefire and negotiations. In the meantime, unfortunately, we are constantly experiencing the expansion of the war conflicts between Russia and Ukraine. Instead of using their power, influence, to force peace or an immediate ceasefire, Western powers are becoming increasingly involved in the war by transporting more powerful and more powerful weapons. The European Parliament calls for further arms shipments: fighter planes, helicopters, rocket systems, tanks and more ammunition to be sent to the battlefield. Some Member States have already committed themselves to further arms shipments. Europe is in the days of drifting into war. We can say that the more countries are involved in the war in Ukraine, the more we move towards a world war, and if there is a world war, it will certainly be a nuclear war. Dear House, The Fidesz fraction will therefore fight to the last opportunity to move towards the enforcement of peace and negotiations, not war escalation, not arms shipments, and not the increase in the number of dead. That is why it is important that the Parliament adopted a resolution on Friday, in which it stands up for the position of peace and demands a ceasefire. Dear House, We also expect two things from the European Union. The first is to have lasting peace, but the Union has become a specific pro-war institution. Secondly, the European Union must preserve the well-being achieved. Compared to this, war and sanctions are destroying the European economy. Hungary must seize every opportunity to stress peace in order to avoid world burns. It is amazing and outrageous that the Hungarian left cannot be expected even in this. The Hungarian left parties have been pro-war since the beginning. [[Kálmán Olga: Oh, come on, John.]] they did not support the pro-peace resolution proposal either in Parliament. [[Kálmán Olga: Because it is not!]] The Hungarian left represents a pro-war interest group against Hungarian interests, as he did during the parliamentary elections last year. [[Kálmán Olga: Who represents Putin's interests?]] Since the Russian-Ukrainian war broke out, he's been clearly political in the war rhetoric. The explanation is simple: the dollar left was given the task of representing the pro-war position in Hungary in exchange for the dollars, because it is in the interest of their clients. The dollar left has made it clear several times since the outbreak of the war that he would send weapons or even soldiers into the war. We asked them to stand on the side of the Hungarians and peace and support the pro-peace resolution proposal. They didn't do it this time either. It is a shame that no left-wing party in Parliament voted in favour of peace, there were no left-wing representatives who were on the side of peace, even though there can be nothing more important than the Hungarian interest: we must stay out of the war. If it were on the left, Hungary would have been involved in the war a long time ago, even though Hungary, the Hungarian people, are pro-peace, and they belong to the global majority. Just a year ago, this was also stated in the parliamentary elections, when they gave the pro-peace Fidesz-KDNP party alliance an unprecedented mandate. Although the European Union, which lives on the left and in war psychosis, wants to push us into this war, the Government of Hungary and the majority in Parliament who are pro-peace Fidesz-KDNP will not allow it. The Fidesz faction is fully supporting the government in its fight against the outbreak of the world war, in preserving the peace and security of the country. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-03-32	Thank you very much, Deputy Group Leader. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Tamás Menczer wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2023-04-03-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, I think that perhaps there is no debate with regard to the left-wing colleagues that today is the most important issue and the most important issue is the issue of war and peace, that there is war in our neighbourhood, that is now more than a year of devastating war. [[12.20]] Moreover, the situation is more serious than in previous months, more and more people are talking about nuclear escalation, and we can even see such processes, and more and more people are talking about the chance of World War III, which in itself is frightening and extremely scary. The Hungarian government's position is also clear that we have always made it clear that this war does not and will not have a winner, this war has and will only have losers. Moreover, if we are talking about the Third World War and nuclear escalation, a Third World War and a nuclear clash, in addition to the fact that there are and will be only losers of this war, it could mean the destruction of all of us, and it would be a good chance. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, You can see in recent times that anyone who sets off on the road to carrying weapons into this war conflict can't stop on this path. Guns, ammunition, weapons, tanks, planes, and now it's about sending soldiers from European or non-European countries under a name and title to this conflict. This is why it was important, important, and it is important today that the Hungarian government's position is clear and unchanged from the start: neither weapons nor soldiers are sent into this war conflict. You are right, then, regardless of whether this causes a riot on the left, this shows that you are right when you say that the left is pro-war, the government is pro-peace. Why do I say that? I could quote many quotes about the fact that the left is pro-war, but here the shadow government of Gyurcsány has just been mentioned several times, and this shadow government has a shadow minister, Sándor Rónai, who said a lot of things this could be an all-nighter or a whole-morning story, but he also said that I am very sorry about the announcement by the Hungarian government yesterday that we are not helping this process to a hundred percent, because other EU Member States, for example, are helping to carry weapons. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, So this shows that it is absolutely true what you said: that if it depended on the left, Ferencen Gyurcsány and the shadow government, then we know from Péter Márki-Zay that soldiers would be sent into this war conflict. It's clear and clear... [[Kálmán Olga: Oh, stop lying!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear Congresswoman Kálmán Olga, I wouldn't have wanted to bring you here, but since we've been listening to your comments for a long time now, all I have to do is bring you here, and I understand that you're disturbed by your direct speech. [[Kálmán Olga: How funny it was! Demercation and intervention in opposition benches.]] But it doesn't discourage us from... [[Kálmán Olga: Lying bothers me, you know?! Noise, interruptions. The president's ringing the bell.]] But this does not discourage us from reporting the facts [[Kálmán Olga intervenes again.]] And we will tell the reality here in the Parliament and tell the Hungarian people. Now, Mr House, honourable Member, what I would like to bring here is that in recent minutes we have heard the speech of the entire left-wing party, more precisely all left-wing parties, except Momentum, but they do not apply for work on Monday at 11 a.m. in the spirit of progressivity. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] Let's be understanding about them. So we heard almost all the left-wing parties speaking, and no one said they wanted an immediate ceasefire and peace talks. Instant ceasefire and peace were not mentioned by any left-wing speaker. [[Kálmán Olga intervenes.]] And here I would also like to bring to you the fact that whoever sets conditions for peace talks, who sets conditions for peace talks and for a ceasefire, does not want a ceasefire, does not want peace, wants to continue the war, so I am forced to say again: pro-war, honourable left-wing colleagues. And finally, you are also right, honourable Member, that it is very regrettable that the left did not support the pro-peace resolution, which was adopted last Friday by the governing parties, in which there is no point that cannot be agreed or even agreed on or should not be supported. The first point is that I would like to bring it here in the absence of time to express our commitment to peace. This is what the Hungarian left-wing representatives said no to, which is unacceptable. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-04-03-34	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr András Aradszki to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2023-04-03-35	Dear Parliament, Sándor Bodó, Fidesz; Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; János Bencze, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Péter Ovádi, Fidesz; Péter Balassa, Jobbik; László Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Tamás Herczeg, Fidesz; Zsolt Nyitrai, Fidesz; Előd Novák, Mi Hazank; Dávid Dávid Dócs, Mi Hazank; Zoltán Varga, DK; Judit Ráczné Földi, DK; Mihály Witzmann, Fidesz.
u2023-04-03-36	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now, at 12:25 p.m., we'll begin questioning. Dear Parliament, Lot. Erzsébet Németh, representative of DK and independent representatives Ferenc Varga would like to ask the Minister of Interior a question: It's an address. It is for Congressman Ferenc Varga.
u2023-04-03-37	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to ask you about the program for the development of the,, Catch-up mentor network. It is this mentoring programme in which mentors provide personalised assistance to disadvantaged people who have been permanently excluded from the labour market, and the aim was to help them back into the world of work. Sounds good, doesn't it? However, it seems that the shadow government of Klára Dobrev provides the only hope for credible and real catch-up, because your governance of the program has been distorted into the 2.0 version of the project, Bridge to the world of work. Flórián Farkas, and later Attila Stojka became very influential in these programs. Before that, you had a mentoring program, which ended virtually without success, but it was good that Flórian Farkas and his circle, who formed the representative body of the National Roma Municipality, were enriched with millions of forints. Offices were created at a cost of HUF 450 thousand a month by leading Roma politicians known to be linked to Fidesz; there were cities where they used more and more of their family members at the same time. As mentors, they employed highly under-educated, not even graduate students, who were known to be apparently unfit. As a result of these abuses, the NAV has also launched an investigation and a complaint has been filed. In 2017, for example, the programme that ended at the end of March won a two billion-dollar grant, and in May, you suddenly renewed the election alliance of Lungo Drom and Fidesz led by Farkas; then, of course, we now know that Farkas is being hidden from prison, and instead, you are building the Roma policy of Fidesz around Attila Stojka. And there were a lot of signs in the campaign that mentors were not engaged in catching up with the Roma, but were involved in the upswing of their votes. How do you view the success of the Roma catch-up programme, Mr Secretary of State, and are you willing to publish the list of mentors? Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-04-03-38	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári, who will answer the question.
u2023-04-03-39	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Your speech, I feel, is more the DK's message to Jobbik. A few weeks ago, you were in the Jobbik faction, and now you have to act as an independent representative, but Gy. Erzsébet Németh took your speech in his name; that if he changed his tone, that if he did not wish to express common goals, but only to attack the government from any direction, he could count on DK, so he turned his back on the betteries, but DK already gave you an opportunity to speak here in Parliament. So either you come over or you cease to be Gyurcsányi logic, here we have seen the beautiful demonstration of strength within the left. Of course, this is your internal case, so let's just be clear about what's going on on on the dollar-left. If we look at what has been done over the past decade in relation to our Roma fellow Roma citizens, let us first look at the employment rates. When we started our government, it was 26 percent, now it's around 46 percent. [[Ferenc Varga intervenes.]] Let's look at the unemployment rate among the gypsies. Then it was around 40 percent, now it's below 20 percent, honourable Member. [[Ferenc Varga: Sure!]] [[12.30]] In recent years, with the policy in which we said that it doesn't matter if someone is a gypsy or not a gypsy, if someone lives in a difficult line, then the government doesn't offer him in the future just to live on aid, but we want to provide them with a job, a job, a job. That is why we have created a million new jobs. Obviously, there were people who needed help to find a place in the world of work. That is why we have started various programs that help those who cannot work on the market on their own, on their own. This was also the program you have just attacked, in which we have reached 76,000 people with either a hundred Roma mentors or in other ways, with 11,000 mentors. 80 percent of the people included in the program were able to produce results, thanks to God, and 2386 people were included in the integration programs. So, thank God, these are also thanks to the fact that there are a million more people working today, and we also have countless Roma citizens working. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-04-03-40	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Vajda, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior:. Will the institutions of outpatient care be taken away from the municipalities? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2023-04-03-41	Thank you very much for the floor. Based on the concepts that have become well-known in the context of health restructuring, it is quite clear that they are planning to nationalise outpatient care, and even the municipalities have received a letter from the national hospital director-general asking about their willingness to transfer. However, these municipalities are good owners of outpatient care. CHAPTER XVI In the district, for example, we spent 3 billion forints on the development of local outpatient care, of which more than 600 million forints were paid by the residents of the district, our local government. In the district, we also launched a suburban emergency care to allow patients to receive immediate care without a referral in case of severe pain. But the service provider has also achieved significant results in the case of waiting lists, which have decreased drastically. There is currently no waiting list for more than 20 working days in our specialized clinic. On the other hand, it can be seen that the nationalised health care system is suffering from ongoing problems, and every month, the hospital debt is making more and more records, the government has not been able to stop and manage for years the production and reproduction of which has allegedly been spent tens of billions of forints. Care for the local population is the essence of our local government, its heart and soul. Without a system of care and care for the social needs and health of local residents, we cannot talk about local government. In view of the above, I have three questions, and I hope to get three answers. Are you planning to take away outpatient care from the municipalities? Two, you're in danger of the 16th. A district clinic? Number three: if both the municipality and the local population clearly support the maintenance of the specialist clinic, will the government ensure that the specialist is left in the hands of the local government? I want three answers to three questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]]
u2023-04-03-42	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári will answer the question. You have the floor.
u2023-04-03-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It's worth clearing up a few facts before we get into the thick of the answer. There are currently outpatient clinics maintained by local governments and outpatient clinics maintained by the state. You may have spoken in a way that you may not be experienced in this area, so you talked about it in this way, that everything is in the municipalities. No, there are outpatient clinics with state reservations now, and they also work and work well and heal patients there too, honourable Member. I see you're frowning. Imagine, there are not all outpatient clinics that are in the vicinity of hospitals, for example, because hospitals are maintained by the state, so the outpatient clinic next to it is maintained by the state, and this is how it works. I'll tell you something new, but that's how it's worked for ten years, and it's working fine. So you can't follow this very simplistic logic, what you're saying is that what you have in the municipality works, what you don't have doesn't work, because now there's one that's here and one that doesn't work. And there's one that's maintained by another, a civil society organization, or a church legal person, or it works through a cvt. So there's a lot of it right now, and that's how it works, that's how it works. The problem with this blinking logic, which you follow, is when your sitting point determines your position, by generalising that the facts are not particularly relevant. [[Zoltán Vajda: I had three questions!]] What you said, the numbers you quoted, what came out of it was that I took the numbers right, that 80 percent of you developed the local practice from state resources. You said it was a local source of HUF 600 million out of 3 billion. This means that 80 percent of the municipal outpatient clinic has been developed from state resources, which is perfectly fine, by the way. Of course, the state will give you development, only if 80 percent of their developments are from the state, then don't condemn the state that there's nothing that the state can do to help in this area. What is currently going on is just a data survey, honourable Member. We passed a law. We act by law to assess the effectiveness of outpatient clinics in these months, and if this survey has been carried out for this reason, the letter quoted by you is also possible to see what is the most advantageous model for patients. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-04-03-44	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister: It's an address. You have the floor.
u2023-04-03-45	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Currently, the operator of every catering business operating in Hungary, its owner and tenant, must register their catering business at the National Tourism Data Service Centre, and will be required to provide information from 1 July 2023, in addition to registration. In the autumn of last year, I have repeatedly called attention to the fact that this obligation to provide information to businesses is a serious technical compliance obligation and therefore a financial pressure. The purchase of such a device is a million-dollar order for these stores. At the end of the year, you made a decision for the benefit of businesses, in which the introduction of the reporting obligation was postponed on 1 July. In my view, however, the circumstances that led to the deferral at that time continue to exist. Thus, for example, the fact that this sector was one of the most affected in the coronal virus epidemic and that its performance was greatly reduced must pay heavy fees, the increase in raw material in catering companies was very serious, and the burden of inflation has been heavy on them in recent years. The severity of these symptoms is indicated by the fact that the catering facilities have been shut down in the last few months. The reporting obligation would therefore be a new and difficult burden for these undertakings. We believe that in a normal country, the government does not enter into a strategic partnership with multinationals, but with entrepreneurs. In view of all this, the conservative Jobbik-Conservatives on the side of the smallest businesses consider it necessary to postpone this obligation or completely abolish the smallest businesses and hosts. So, in view of all this, I respectfully ask: will the government help the host companies by delaying the NTAK reporting obligation again, or perhaps abolishing it? If not, will businesses receive support for the acquisition of costly assets? I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2023-04-03-46	Thank you. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Csaba Dömötör will answer the question. You have the floor.
u2023-04-03-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I would like to clarify, honourable Member, or to draw your attention to the fact that daily traffic statistics for 45,000 accommodations are already being received in NTAK. What is the essence of this system? It helps long-term decision-making, helps the government to provide more precise, targeted support, helps with consciously planned marketing activities, and to say one more thing, they are a good basis for assessing energy subsidies. By the way, this system has already contributed to the fact that tourism and domestic tourism have already achieved near-close results for the 2019 record year in the summer of 2022. Our position is that NTAK has passed the test, and our goal is therefore unchanged. We want to digitize the tourism sector, this part of it, so we're expanding it. The combined analysis of the statistics on accommodations, catering shops and tourist attractions will draw an unprecedented picture of the real performance of the sector and where it is worth providing subsidies. I would also like to point out to you that the government has been continuously consulted with professional tourism organisations. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the registration has been running since November 2021, and the start of data transmission has been modified several times by the Parliament. How we help is also an important factor. Data transmission and reporting are facilitated by free software, which can be used either on a mobile phone or on a tablet. [[12.40]] In addition, the MTÜ also made voluntary data transmission available from 1 March, so that all service providers have enough time to learn how to operate the system. So we've already given, and we're going to give you all the help we can, our goal is not only to reach the record level before the epidemic, but also to go beyond it in tourism. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-03-48	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Dóra Dúró, representative of Mi Hazank, vice-president of the National Assembly, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior a question:. When do they provide decent conditions at the István Fekete Primary School in Gyömrő? It's an address. Madam Vice President, you have the floor.
u2023-04-03-49	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Accident-dangerous gymnasium, crumbling plaster, broken ceiling, leaks, mold, toilet accessible through the courtyard should live their daily lives in Gyömrő by students and educators of the Black István Primary School, as they have been delaying the renovation of the nearly 100-year-old school building and the construction of a new building for five years. I personally went around the school with the headmaster, so I could make sure, among other things, that she was already forced to teach lessons in gadgets, in the former archives, in the library, and even in the corridor. About 250 children get two or two bathrooms, which are clogged regularly, useless. But the conditions of the meal are not better: one class has 10-15 minutes to eat its lunch due to congestion and lack of space. In one of the classrooms, part of the ceiling was torn, but the children still have to study there. The top of the gym last year was quite simply torn off by a larger wind, and only thanks to divine providence that there was no personal injury in these cases. Since then, the roof has been replaced with a foil covering, saying that the new school will soon be finished. But there's no news of the new school, and the gym keeps getting wet, so they consider daily physical education classes to be 22 classes. Promises, of course, were on a series, but nothing happened. Now they can't even make a promise on the basis of the war, and those involved don't even know that they have to move to a container school on the outskirts of the city, which would be home to this institution until the new building was built. Mr. Secretary, who will be responsible if a child is injured because of the lack of renewal that has been postponed for five years? When are you going to provide decent conditions for ginger schoolchildren? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-04-03-50	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2023-04-03-51	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, If you look at the last few years, you can see that 4576 preschool and school-service places, so in so many kindergartens, so many schools have made improvements worth a thousand billion forints. It's a very, very high amount. The national public education infrastructure development programme currently has 220 projects: 57 swimming pools, 87 gymnasiums, 44 classroom extensions, 31 school and 1 kindergarten development. 118 of these have already been implemented by the end of January. A total of HUF 54 billion of schools and kindergarten development can be found in the Modern Cities programme. The Hungarian village program was completed with a value of HUF 5 billion in school building renovations, gymnasium and gymnasium renovations worth HUF 2.5 billion in 92 settlements. These developments, of course, continued last year for HUF 7.5 billion in 71 projects. The Gheorgheni school is also in a position, like many agglomeration settlements, that more and more people are moving out, the population is growing, there are more and more children, so there is an increasing need for schools. For this reason, the government has developed a joint programme for 16 settlements with the largest population expansion and low school capacity, in which school planning has also started, obviously, it is also aware of the plans of the school in Gyömró, as they have been made public in the past, and in these 16 schools, we trust that we can create a larger capacity expansion, which temporarily brings students to study in container classrooms. You know, I've been to several of these settlements, and at the beginning, everyone's a little bit alienated from these containers, and then, when they get used to it, a lot of people would prefer to keep a watch there, as heating and air conditioning conditions are often more advantageous. So, after a while, they like them. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] But sooner or later, everyone obviously wants to be in a final school building. Indeed, this is among the investments that the government had to postpone for a year or two due to war and sanctions, but we will continue in the same way [[The president's ringing again.]] as soon as the consequences of the sanctions go away. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President. [[Five years! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-03-52	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Sándor Berki, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior a question, "Why do you not adjust social firewood support to the drastic increase in firewood?" It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-04-03-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In Hungary, 4 million people live in households that heat with wood and coal. In the homes of the poorest, almost exclusively there is wood heating. According to the government, the Hungarian state spends hundreds of billions each year on gas fuel subsidies. And do you know how much support there is for people who try to heat their homes with wood? It's embarrassing to say: 5 billion forints a year. This winter, this is all they spent on the social firewood program, and the new application came out in the last few days, and the price of the firewood has almost doubled since last summer. Please explain the reason for this disproportionateness. And please state why the government believes that this low amount is sufficient to help those in energy poverty. Have you thought about a tougher winter? Have you considered that the war may cause problems with gas supplies and that more people will turn to the firewood? Have you at least done the basic calculations? And if so, how could the amount of aid not be increased? Thank you for your reply.
u2023-04-03-54	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2023-04-03-55	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The government followed the policy of trying to help everyone pay their bills. Up to the average consumption, each family receives about HUF 181 000 per month by buying electricity and gas at the previous reduced prices in 2013. We could not do this in almost any of Europe's countries, and we can even say that we cannot do this in any other European country. But there are those who do not heat or heat or heat or cool with electricity, but, where appropriate, whether with wood or coal, and they have been set up by the government, and for their sake, the social firewood program has been launched, in which we can help hundreds of thousands of families in need each year. The amount was constantly raised. At the start of this program, the budget was HUF 858 million. Then for a long time, from 2014 for several years 3 billion HUF. But we have now raised this to HUF 5 billion, on the one hand so that higher prices can be paid and that this support can reach several families. Before the start of the heating season, these subsidies will be allocated. And if you look at it, you'll see that last year, 2379 [[Sic!]] the municipality has taken advantage of this possibility. 2163 of the 2374 municipalities purchased firewood worth 216 980 forest cubic metres, and 211 municipalities could buy brownstone worth nearly half a billion forints. The state also bought and opened brown coal mines and mines so that, at a reduced price, they could claim not only wood from forest farms but also brownstone from public mines. So this program has two legs: it has wood and brown coal. And this year we brought forward the application, the applications for this year have already been announced, the announcement of the results is expected in May, and last year is due until 15 April. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-03-56	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Máté Kanász-Nagy, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Energy:. When can the Danes and the people in the area expect the illegal landfill to be eliminated? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-04-03-57	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán was suddenly green for a few minutes in his annual speech before the outbreak of the Crown Virus on 16 February 2020. At that time, he made several announcements, one of which was that the government would eliminate illegal landfills and punish the polluters. [[12.50]] I will not give you much surprise, the elimination of illegal landfills has not happened, and the situation has become even worse since then: illegal landfills are increasing, often in the immediate vicinity of settlements, residential houses, authorities are pointing at each other, the authorities have taken away all authority in this area as well. It has led the Fidesz government to completely deconstruct the nature reserve system. Allow me to give you a specific example of the complaints I have received from the population from all over the country, in the last few weeks or months. Our activists have shown me an incredibly large illegal landfill near the Dany settlement. There are hundreds of meters of garbage and dangerous waste: a lot of tyres, cement residues, fertilizer bags, chemical barrels. Obviously, this quantity didn't come together in two days, someone or someone here has been carrying waste illegally for a long time. The level of pollution is so high that it is clearly not possible to clean it up without official assistance, but there is no such help. I also made a police report myself and an official announcement to the government office, in which I asked the head of the government office to ensure the removal of waste and effective and substantive prevention, but I still have no reply. I would like to ask you how the government is helping to eliminate the Dányyi landfill. How to strengthen the institutional system [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] and when will the launch of the waste disposal programme announced by the Prime Minister begin? Thank you very much.
u2023-04-03-58	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Zsófia Koncz. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2023-04-03-59	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I think it is right for all good people to be outraged if they see any pollution or illegal landfill. For this reason, the government launched the climate and nature conservation action plan in 2020. In the framework of this, we have launched the.. Cleansing the Country! In my own constituency, for example, illegal landfills containing large quantities of waste could be eliminated. We have also launched the WasteRadar application: 27,000 users have registered so far, and 43,000 notifications have already been made. Let's clear this country. In the framework of the program we were able to collect and eliminate nearly 500,000 tons of garbage. I would just like to mention here that, by the way, you are taking it! The action will also take place soon, between 22 and 28 April, for the 11th time, this is the country's largest voluntary waste collection operation. So I think that the government considers this issue very important. In the specific case which Mr President referred to, I would like to point out that on 31 January 2023 the notary of the municipality of Dany notified the environmental, nature conservation and waste management authority of the Government Office of Pest Vármegye on 31 January 2023. At the time of the on-the-spot verification, the authority found that thousands of cubic metres of waste were placed on the property. The Authority requested the owners to transport the waste, the deadline for the shipment was 16 April. If the shipment is not carried out, it is the duty of the authorities to ensure the elimination of the waste, and, as you mentioned, there is an investigation at the Gödöllő Police Department in parallel. On behalf of the government, we would like to thank those who have indicated the problem, and we hope that the people of Dany will get rid of illegal waste as soon as possible. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-03-60	I thank the Secretary of State for her reply. Dear Parliament, János Pócs, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Minister:. Why is the opposition accusing the population? It's an address. Mr János Pócs has the floor.
u2023-04-03-61	Dear Secretary of State, I stand before you in a state of outrage: the left-wing city leaders are making unprecedented cuts, either because of their inadequacy or perhaps in order to fatten their wallets, on the basis of the government's solidarity contribution. I can't imagine why people like Jászberény city leaders are now accusing civil, cultural, sports and media organizations. Unprecedented! I could compare all this to the land tax of fallen Prime Minister Péter Márki-Zay. In recent years, the government has provided non-refundable support to jasical enterprises, which can also be seen in the Jászberény budget, as their total turnover has grown from the older HUF 1.8 billion to 3.8 billion. In recent days Jászberény has received a total of 244 million forints, with Jászberény receiving gas at the price before the energy crisis. In addition, the state took over health care, educational tasks and their financing, so these expenses are no longer charged to the city's budget, which exceeds the previous year by more than HUF 1 billion. In terms of social policy expenditure, while last year the elderly received HUF 10 million to support medicine, only HUF 4 million this year. While in 2022 there was 4.8 million forints in early birth support, in 2023 unfortunately only 2 million forints were added. In fact, children's sports support, almost all of which have been taken away, affects more than 2,000 children. This is shameful and goes against the social policy plans of our national government. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] It is a fact that blood does not become water, and unfortunately, the opposition will remain like this: it is not in the interests of the inhabitants, but in the interests of its own political interests. I ask the Secretary of State why the opposition is abusing the population. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-03-62	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Miklós Panyi, who will answer the question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2023-04-03-63	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, There are two types of approaches to crisis management in Hungary, one of which is the Left's crisis management recipe. What is this recipe about? Population cuts, tax increases, taking away the 13th month's pension, reducing family allowances, increasing the number of bills. We are also aware of the consequences of this: economic downturn, unemployment, debt and IMF growth. The policy of the Fidesz-KDNP government, which aims to protect families and jobs, to support the average consumption, to rebuild the 13th month pension, to retain the purchasing power of pensions, to keep the factory rescue programme and to keep low taxes. Thanks to this, the Hungarian economy remains in good condition, employment is at a record high level. Honourable Congressman, It is sad to find that Jászberény's left-wing leadership cooks from the same recipe as the Gyurcsány governments, and that in such a situation he is withdrawing subsidies from the most deprived, the elderly and the families. It does this despite, as Mr President has said, that, thanks to government business promotion programmes, the tax revenue of the municipality has also increased significantly. He does this despite the fact that the government supports the city and its region with significant improvements, such as the implementation of the Jászberény route. And it does this despite the fact that the government provided 68 million forints of overhead support for the settlement this year. We would also like to inform the elderly and families of Jászberény that the government, as opposed to the city administration, will not let them down. I would also suggest to the Member that he draw the attention of the left-wing city administration to the consequences of the restrictions on the population, the application of the Gyurcsány recipe. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-03-64	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Péter Harrach, a representative of KDNP, wishes to ask the Minister for Economic Development: in what way does the Government ensure the protection of jobs and the creation of new jobs in Hungary? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-04-03-65	Dear Secretary of State, We are living in a time of crisis, and I am thinking not only of the lasting social crisis, such as the western world, or of the Union's role in the world economy and trade, of the gradual weakening of its competitiveness, but also of the effects of the Russian-Ukrainian war. This has caused an economic and energy crisis in Europe, and in such a situation, it is important that we protect jobs, as it provides a decent livelihood for families. We were pleased to hear that according to data from the Central Statistical Office, 4 million 691,000 people worked in February 2023, which was 26 thousand more than a year ago. [[13.00]] At the same time, the unemployment rate was 4 per cent, which is lower than the average of the European Union, as it is one and a half times that high. Of course, average earnings are also important for a living. In January, gross average earnings were 16.1 percent higher, and net average earnings were 16 percent higher than the average one year earlier. This represents a gross increase of HUF 73,000 and a net increase of HUF 50,000. Dear Secretary of State, These are encouraging and positive news, which is why we are interested in how the government ensures that jobs are protected and new jobs are created in Hungary. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-03-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr János Fónagy, Secretary of State, who will answer the question and hand over the chair of the meeting to Vice-President János Latorcai. Thank you for your cooperation. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2023-04-03-67	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the number of people employed has been around 4.7 million for more than half a year, which is one million more than it was in 2010. The unemployment rate, as you said, is far below the EU average, now below 4 per cent, moving around 3.7 to 3.8 per cent. In March, some 244 thousand jobs were registered by the National Employment Service, and the number of registered jobseekers has never been so low in the third month of the year. Compared to the best data so far in March 2022, the number of people in the register has decreased by around 7,000, and since 2010, the number of registered job seekers has decreased by 400 thousand in Hungary. The government's aim is to increase full employment and the number of jobs. The workforce needs to be increased by another half a million to meet the labour needs of ongoing and planned investments and developments in the coming period. This is essential to the growth of the Hungarian economy, to ensure the workforce needed for new investments. The planning and organisation of the necessary measures has begun. The government plans to meet this labour demand primarily by increasing the economic activity of the Hungarian population, involving the inactive in the labour market. Labour support for businesses launched in December last year and support for work experience will help to identify new jobs. In order to protect jobs, the government supports energy-intensive SMEs, introduces a interest-rate stop, provides cheap loans, and works to develop a new capital programme through the Reindustrialisation Loan Programme by Gábor Baross. Thank you for your attention. Mr President, thank you for your patience. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-03-68	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Congressman Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior: "How can you afford this? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-04-03-69	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In recent times, as Chairman of the Welfare Committee, I have been getting more and more desperate requests from disabled pensioners. You may think you're not in a good mood or writing to me for my two beautiful eyes. Rather, it is because they complain that since you came to the government, not only are you constantly being denied your rights, but they are simply being crushed. You can remember that you immediately started the government by transferring thousands of people to health without any particular reason, so that they wouldn't have to pay full compensation. Then I learned from the requests that the tricks have not stopped, and they have even brought it to the legal level. According to the law, after the authority has laid down a certain amount for them to care for persons with disabilities, it is possible to recalculate and increase the amount of aid for a total of five years after the decision. From now on, I think you'll figure out what's going on. The author of one letter, after the amount of the subsidy due to him was unlawfully established, submitted a request for review in 2017 and that, no, the Ministry of Interior postponed the decision until the beginning of this year. And how many years has it been? Now, don't count, I'll tell you, it's five years, and it's out of date, and the support is as low as it used to be. And the Home Office washes their hands, and it's really not their fault that the law decided to do so. It is clear that the law was designed deliberately so as not to have to increase the amount of aid. You deliberately leave thousands of disabled pensioners on the side of the road, while your own friends are being stuffed with billions, and this shows that today the shadow government remains Hungary's last hope for everyone to live in decent conditions. So I ask you, Secretary of State, why did you leave such a loophole in the law when you can see for the first moment how easy it is to play this out? When can the disabled retirees expect to finally get the support they need? Thank you and I look forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2023-04-03-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2023-04-03-71	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I do not believe that many hope in the shadow government which, when it was on the government, reduced the amount of pensions and cut social benefits, honourable Member. [[Zoltán Varga intervenes.]] And I don't think they trust those politicians who have been silent about the fact that a year ago your last Prime Minister's candidate had disabled people and thought that this was a useful figure of speech or criticism. On the other hand, we have sought to provide a fair allowance for everyone, whether for rehabilitation or disability benefits, who can take up a job, and to open up a much larger wage opportunity. By having one million more jobs, and obviously with the rehabilitation card and other discounts, we were able to increase the employment of people with disabilities from 18 to 44 percent, who no longer live from this kind of care, but from a much higher income in their own right. At the same time, however, it is important to address what you have tried to refer to, honourable Member, how to change an authority's decision. There is also a proper and extraordinary remedy. If the body withdraws or amends its decision in its own power, there is a deadline, so that the administrative body can amend the decision within a year, but in the supervisory procedure, which is the other option, it can be modified beyond one year, so the amount may be increased in accordance with the health status of the person; and there is no limit you have said here, so if someone subsequently comes forward and initiates a supervisory procedure, then in this case the amount may be changed even much later. If you have this specific document, you can obviously get it to us, and we'll see if it's really a case or not. We want to help everyone, we want to establish a fair supply for everyone who can work, and we want to offer wages to those who can. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-03-72	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Róbert Dudás, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Construction and Transport: When will the roads of Heves County be possible? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, State Secretary Bálint the Great will answer you. You have the floor, please.
u2023-04-03-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I could have put the title in another way, because it refers to Heves County, but I could have put it this way, when the rural roads, especially between small settlements, would be possible. A few weeks ago, another Secretary of State told me, so he answered my question, and I asked him who decided on these matters: profession or politics? He said politics, of course. It's kind of sad, by the way, but at the same time it's typical of your administration. So I'm going to ask you this question, by the way, a few days ago, I got an answer to a written question. [[13.10]] I'm going to mention a few roads due to the scarcity of time, but this question also applies to all the other bad small-town trips. A trip that, based on your writing, counts 1711 cars a day, and you realize that you're in bad shape, you still don't have a source, you don't care about it. A main road that affects three counties, Nógrád, Heves and Borsod counties, is well aware that it is in bad shape, not turned on. By the way, I daresay that you don't know how bad you are, because motorists have to keep an eye on the potholes and make sure they don't get thrown off the road by one of the prints. I'm talking accident-dangerous, life-threatening trips, but they're not being turned into a source. There would be something to translate, since they took 1,500 billion forints more from people. And here the key is to people. Now this amount should be reversed for the benefit of the people, renovating the roads, so that these settlements, these regions, can get involved in economic circulation, because this would be extremely important. The problem is, you don't even show off. There is always a source of visual investment and own power interests. So I look forward to your substantive answer: is this all right with you? I trust your answer will be free of sanctions. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2023-04-03-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I mentioned earlier, the answer will be given by Secretary of State Bálint the Great. Here you go.
u2023-04-03-75	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I understand your intensity, even with regard to the county. But allow me to take this seriously in terms of mentioning 1500 billion forints, even though you are aware that Hungary's budget surplus was over 4,000 billion forints last year. It is very important to mention these developments, and it is important not only for the Heves County, but also for the development in general, to state that, despite the claims of many, these improvements have not been abandoned or abandoned. These have been redeployed, rescheduled over the past period and are taking place now, but these improvements will be implemented in the future. It would be more important, in my opinion, if the Member had already mentioned that, in view of the opinions of the people and the interests of the people, the European Union should give Hungary and the Hungarian people the resources due to them as soon as possible, including the IKOP plus resources, from which a great deal of development should and could be implemented that is due to Hungary, and there will be very important developments in terms of both the Hungarian countryside and the Hungarian agglomerations in terms of county-righted cities. But let's record a few things about the county, too. Honourable Congressman, The government has completed a total of 446 kilometers of new roads and road development worth HUF 158 billion in the last 12 years. Four ongoing investments are currently affecting the region in question. Due to the shortness of time, I will not mention it, but if you have been watching the press news in the last week, you can see that a decision has been made on the bypass route in Eger, and this will also be a HUF 90 billion development, which will affect this region and the immediate environment of Eger. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-03-76	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman István Szabadi, representative of Mi Hazank, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior a question: It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-04-03-77	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear House, As a result of increased fuel prices and inflation, from 28 January 2023 the cost of work has been increased, although not as much as the maximum tax-free amount proposed by the Mi Hazank Movement has increased to HUF 30 per kilometer, and the level of compensation payable by the employer in specific situations has increased to HUF 18 per kilometer. Since the employer is not obliged to provide a higher amount of compensation, in many places the 18 forints/km can be accounted for, in fact, there are public institutions, municipalities, hospitals where even this minimum cost is not guaranteed, but I will talk about it the next time. Unfortunately, the amount of travel support for patients has not changed since the Gyurcsány government. To get to the clinics, hospitals, the patient and his escort together will be entitled to HUF 21 per kilometer, and if the attendant travels alone for the patient or the patient, he will receive HUF 18 per kilometer for support and no support for the local travel costs. It's worth thinking about. Even sadder is the fact that parents and support services can use the same low amount of support for the daily travel of children with special needs to special development institutions. And for the development of children with SNI, it is essential that they have a special occupation, and their access to development institutions is a huge burden for family members every day. According to the view of the Hungarian Movement, it would have been good to raise the cost of going to work to 40 forints. Until this is achieved, I would like to ask you, Mr Secretary of State, for your answer on why, after travelling patients and children with special educational needs who are already disadvantaged compared to the majority society, the 30 forints per kilometer are not due, and in this case you are planning to increase the amount of compensation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-04-03-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2023-04-03-79	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is very important to spend an amount of money for these purposes, which will provide substantial help to those who are already in a difficult situation, since in order to improve their health, to be able to deliver a child with an SNI to the right place, state aid is needed. This shows that they really need multiple help. That is why it was important for the state to raise this amount, and now, if you look at last year's budget, we will spend HUF 3.3 billion on such travel assistance. The largest proportion of these is car travel, HUF 3.4 billion. The SNI child transport is HUF 856 million, and other travel expenses are obviously HUF 2.3 billion for health purposes, and the smaller part is public transport, which is HUF 192 million, in which the SNI child transport is HUF 73 million and the other travel expenses HUF 119 million. The logic of the legislation is that anyone who can travel by public transport. Therefore, for whom your doctor tells you that your state of health allows you to take a bus, take a train, take a tram, public transport must obviously be recommended or accepted in the first place. However, for those who are not able to do so because their illness does not allow it, or as an SNI, they have difficulties in transporting them by car. As you can see, from HUF 3.3 billion to HUF 3.1 billion, this type of support is usually used by car, while the child or accompanying person may be eligible for up to 90 percent support in public transport. As I mentioned to you, we have tried to raise this source in recent years. If there really are more opportunities for this, we will continue to follow the same policy as before. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-03-80	Thank you very much. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congresswoman Tünde Szabó, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister for Construction and Transport:. What positive changes are there and are expected in the rail transport of the Zone in North-East Hungary? It's an address. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2023-04-03-81	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The government has long focused on the development of green rail transport, since rail is one of the pillars of the future, not only environmentally friendly but also one of the most sustainable modes of transport. The reconstruction of the suburban section of the Miskolc main line, which also affects the Northern East Hungarian Zone, as well as the fact that ICs stop in Hatvan, and the traffic has become more denser, for example, because trains with the designation "Cívis" start every hour between Budapest and Debrecen. Passenger numbers are increasing in long-distance transport, so there is an increasing need to be able to return home later than the last trains between 6 and 7 hours in the evening. Therefore, the extension of the operating hours between the capital and Debrecen, Nyíregyháza, Miskolc and Eger is particularly good news. Based on public comments and professional decisions, the Tokaj intercitys stop again in Bishop's Lady, and at peak hours flights leave every 20 minutes and a new night train travels from Füzesabony to Miskolc. These innovative steps can also be achieved because Hungary's Government now supports rail transport by two and a half times as much as before 2010, thus continuing track development, station upgrades, intercityfleet expansions, accessibility, and rail and bus services. [[13.20]] Dear Secretary of State, In the light of all this, I am asking what experience has been developed so far in the North-East Hungarian zone regarding the new list of changes that will enter into force on 11 December, and what further innovations are expected in the near future to ensure additional comfort for passengers. Thank you very much for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-03-82	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer is given by Secretary of State Bálint the Great. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2023-04-03-83	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Allow me first of all to express my thanks and appreciation for your work for the region. As you have said, rail investments, raising the quality of rail freight and passenger transport, reducing travel and transport times are strategic issues for the government, and not only a question of competitiveness, but also an environmental issue. We see that the Budapest-Belgrád line opens up huge economic opportunities for Hungary, which is why we focus on the V0 issue, which will ensure interoperability in the west and east. The other strategic issue is the Eastern region, which is the centre of Debrecen, but here, as a birch-egyháza representative, I have to say that this is also very important because developments in and under design in the region and there will bring significant profits to the entire eastern part of the country, and what is important to us from the government's point of view is that people living there, businesses operating there, will benefit as much as possible from these developments. I would also like to inform you that rail investments are currently worth HUF 84 billion in the region, and that one of the most important 100 lines, Budapest-Debrecen, are planned by the government: we are looking at the plan to build a fast train, which would bring travel time to Debrecen and Budapest below two hours, which not only improves competitiveness compared to road transport, but also offers a very real and very realistic alternative. I wish you more strength and health for your work, thank you very much for this question. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-03-84	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Member László Sebian-Petrovszki, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice a question: "Do you have any other good news? It's an address. Congressman László Sebian-Petrovski, please.
u2023-04-03-85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. András Bencsik of Fidesz said this literally on Fidesz News TV, and I quote: 'I have good news, in Uganda Parliament has passed an anti-LGBTQ law, so the bulls, if they get married, will be executed!' By the boobies, Mr Bencsik obviously meant the gays, I'll add that to that. So, according to András Bencsik, the execution of gays is not only alarming or unsuitable, but also a good thing to follow, good news to quote him literally. We know who András Bencsik, one of the oldest opinion makers of Fidesz, organizers of the so-called Peace Process, is also the owner of the Knight's Cross of the Hungarian Merit, but you have said nothing, you have not protested these sentences, so we can rightly say that if the execution of gays is good news, according to Mr Bencsik, then Fidesz is good news. While you have not responded, let me make the position of DK clear. We believe that this is the darkest hate speech, which is possible: threatening to physically exterminate or at least to be happy about a minority. This is a hate speech, even if it is not possible to prosecute Mr Benchik today because of this sentence because of the civil code, it is not possible to accuse him of hate speech, because at present this law only protects racial, ethnic and religious minorities, gender identity or sexual orientation is not included in this list, these minorities are not protected. The Democratic Coalition therefore initiates a legislative amendment to the Civil Code, so that the Hungarian LGBTQ community can be protected from now on in the case of hate speech, and that the members of the sexual minority can also defend their own civil rights. I ask the Secretary of State: will you support this type of amendment to the civil code, or will death continue their campaign for gays? Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-04-03-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Répássy Róbert, Deputy Minister of State. Here you go.
u2023-04-03-87	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Law C of 2012, Criminal Code 332. According to Article 5a of the Treaty and its point (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, any person who, in the public interest, incites violence or hatred against certain groups of the population or members thereof, in particular with regard to disability, gender identity, sexual orientation, shall be punished for a sentence of up to three years for a criminal offence. The Btk. See footnote 1 to this footnote that this section is set out in Annex CIII to the 2016 Act. It's registered by law in the Btk. The Act was adopted by the Parliament on 11 October 2016. I've contacted the Parliament's records, the vote on this law. Honourable Member, how do you think you voted? How did the opposition vote on this law? [[László Sebian-Petrovski intervenes.]] Dear House, This Act was adopted by the government parties only on 11 October 2016 [[László Sebian-Petrovski intervenes.]] in favour of the votes of the opposition parties, which are not, and which are, parties to the dispute. So if [[László Sebian-Petrovski: Answer the question!]] You would have been the majority of the Parliament, and hate speech wouldn't be punishable today. Hate speech is punishable by the criminal code. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. László Sebian-Petrovski: He did not answer!]]
u2023-04-03-88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman János Bencze, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture: When will Hungarian beekeeping receive real protection? It's an address. Congressman János Bencze has the floor, please.
u2023-04-03-89	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, I'd like to say, Mr. Minister. I don't know who's going to answer...
u2023-04-03-90	The Secretary of State...
u2023-04-03-91	I'm guessing Mr. Secretary Farkas. I would like to speak on a very important issue. Over the past year, the domestic economy has suffered several attacks, an ongoing attack, and a threat. One of the things I have already spoken about is the issue of Ukrainian import cereals, and the question of Ukrainian import cereals says that this has gone beyond the competence of the government. The other critical area is Hungarian honey, as the territory of the Union and the territory of Hungary come from Ukraine and the Far East with a very large quantity of dubious, perhaps false honey, and the EU's honey report also states that more than 50 percent of honey coming into the EU from outside the EU borders is a forgery. As a result, the sad situation was that in Hungary there is a tonne of good quality honey, and the Hungarian Association of Bees found a solution: it announced a barrel sale, which for us beekeepers is a lot but not a solution. And what has crowned this whole honey market situation is perhaps the saddest thing, that the current government has equated the circle of economic interests that provides Hungary with cheap import honey from outside the borders of the Union, and the minister was once the buyer of this economic interest. And the Minister also admitted that this foreign honey is suspiciously cheap, and this honey is pushing down domestic buying prices. So I ask you: in addition to the honey trading circles that destroy Hungarian beekeepers, do Hungarian beekeepers get real, meaningful help, or do they only get propaganda? The country is full of beekeepers' cry for help, beekeepers for sale, tools for sale, and barrels of honey. I hope that there is no shame in this sector, that when a fellow beekeeper is the Minister of Agriculture, the large production apiaries in Hungary will go bankrupt. I'm waiting for a meaningful answer. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2023-04-03-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Sándor Farkas, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2023-04-03-93	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, The bee-keeping sector is vital for both the European Union and Hungary, and the government is doing everything in its power to prevent the flow of cheap, counterfeit honeys into our country. That is why we have proposed a revision of the EU directives on honey in order to better regulate the origin and origin designation of honey and mixtures of honey at Community level. One of the most important elements of the proposed amendment is that, in the case of mixtures of honey originating in several countries, the exact origin of the EU and non-EU honey used in the final product should be indicated in order of their proportion. [[13.30]] In the near future, the domestic legislative amendment drawn up by the Ministry of Agriculture will enter into force, according to which, in the event of the mixing of honey from several countries, all countries of origin should be indicated in descending order according to the weight of the honey used. This amendment is in the interests of both domestic producers and consumers. The Hungarian food chain monitoring authority was also involved in the control of EU honey, which was also mentioned by the Member. A total of 123 exporters have been controlled in the Union since autumn 2021 under the control programme, of which 70 were suspected of exports of counterfeit honey with foreign sugar. 63 of the 96 importers in the Union verified imported at least one suspicious consignment. However, I am pleased to inform you that, on the other hand, during the course of the operation, no suspicious, counterfeit shipments from third countries have arrived in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-04-03-94	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Representative of President Novák, representative of Mi Hazank, would like to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office a question: Why doesn't the Secret Service investigate the momentary media empire of banned American party financing? It's an address. Congressman Novak has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-04-03-95	Dear Secretary of State, I would also ban government propaganda funded by public funds, but I can't tolerate the opaque use of foreign micro-donations, actually unknown, suspicious money, Balliberal money laundering. The Titan Poster Campaign, which Péter Márki-Zay admitted to being banned from billions of Americans, is also a billboard campaign, as I revealed, the Momentum... so I filed a complaint against politicians after I was able to show the network through the intelligence report published in response to my claim and the Opten Corporation. Péter Márki-Zay said that the spending of their billions of American support was agreed with the six parties. Although Momentum denied its participation in the division, I found out that their media and corporate empire received the money. Although I am not allowed access to the closed meetings of the National Security Committee as a representative of our country's National Security Review, according to the secret service material published until 2051, a total of more than HUF 4 billion was received from the Balliberal opposition, mainly from Action for Democracy abroad during the election campaign. During the investigation of the end-users of the billionaire grants, it was shown that, through the datadat company group linked to Bajnai Gordon and its former Minister of Secret Service, FelitunoMedia Kft. He also received money, but it was not written any more, and in vain I asked the secret service to explore the company empire in a deeper way, to detect the momentary relationships. Why? However, Opten's network of contacts also shows the managing company Sárándy Rajmund another media company, Street Fluence Kft., which was also founded in autumn 2021, which also provided Momentum with its giant poster campaign for a quarter of the market price. So, is the Secret Service willing to explore the momentary corporate empire deeper? [[Applause for the representatives of our country.]]
u2023-04-03-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2023-04-03-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, We expect the Hungarian authorities to explore all efforts to achieve foreign party financing. There is a risk not only of trying to influence elections, but also of asking for something for such amounts during elections, and such foreign subsidies are incorporated into the activities and decisions of certain parties. The State Audit Office is also involved in such audits. We already know that organisations linked to left-wing parties received significant support, 4 billion, that's all they could come from abroad, at least that, and even though they claimed they were not micro-donations, and even though they claimed otherwise, it is clear that they could use these instruments for campaign purposes. This can also be seen from the fact that the logos of the organisations receiving grants were on the election poster. As far as Momentum is concerned, I wouldn't be surprised if foreign subsidies landed at Momentum. There is no development in which I can be surprised, but there has been an Olympic tender, campaigning for Romanian and Slovak parties and constantly dragging me into the war. I'm not going to mention scooter-washing right now, because it's not dangerous for society anyway, just for their own image. I think that the left-wing parties hide behind the civil screen in vain, they have to take responsibility: if they accept money for their campaign or activities from abroad and this is reflected in certain decisions and decisive matters, then they have to take responsibility for this. I would like to assure you that the Hungarian authorities will investigate in detail if there is suspicion of lawlessness and irregularities, nothing can go without consequences. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-04-03-98	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister for Culture and Innovation: what do you intend to do to create more Hungarian children? It's an address. Mr Zsolt Gréczy has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-04-03-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, There was a strong search to find out who to turn to if I wanted to ask about dramatic child birth statistics from the government. Prime Minister's Office? Home Office? Finally, I found that the Ministry of Culture and Innovation is a State Secretary for Family Affairs, but other parts of the family work belong elsewhere. So, among all the midwives, the child is lost. The Orbán government often boasts of what it does for families. The numbers are coming, the billions, how much more money goes to families than before 2010. Well, between 2002 and 2010, the Gyurcsány government spent much more on families than the first Orbán government. The dramatic reality, however, is that the number of births has fallen tragically. In the worst year of the Gyurcsány government, more children were born than in the best year of the Orbán government. Since there has been such statistics, so few Hungarian children have never been born in Hungary. I'll say it again, never. There are four years when the birth rate is under 90,000: 2011, 2013, 2018 and 2022; all during the Orbán government. Of course, if a government charges child rearing products with 27 percent VAT from the stroller to the diaper, if there are not enough pediatricians, if a third of the country lives below the minimum of living, then no child is born; who is, in fact, a large number of people abroad. So I ask what you want to do to improve dramatic statistics. Don't list numbers and amounts to that woe, but a lot of money was spent on families and fertility rates! Neither the money nor the rate have ever cried up in the delivery room. So the crime of the Orbán government is that so few children are born, and I look forward to your reply on how they intend to combat it. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for the DK benches.]]
u2023-04-03-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Deputy Minister, Secretary of State, Eszter Vitalyos. Here you go.
u2023-04-03-101	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, 13 years, Congressman, 13 years have passed since the Prime Minister's Office was in the government structure. He hasn't been since. So if you're gonna ask the government a question, I suggest you at least look into what kind of wallets are in the government structure. Nearly a year ago, the fourth Orbán government was established, and I think it is clear before and ever since who is responsible for family policy in the government. [[Zsolt Gréczy: The EMMI is gone!]] At last year's hearing by Minister János Csák, you were there, and what is more, you spoke to the meeting, and it was also mentioned that family policy belongs to our purse. Be kind, honor the electorate by preparing for the parliamentary work. As for the facts, the numbers are clear. Thanks to your restrictive family policy before 2011, the total fertility rate for children was 1.23, which was still the lowest in the European Union. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Much more children were born than they are now!]] During your administration, the total number of child births decreased by 22.5 percent. The development of the total fertility rate best expresses what birth numbers look like. It increased from 1.2 to 1.59, i.e. by almost 30 percent between 2011 and 21, which was the largest expansion in the European Union. [[13.40]] If the desire to have children at your level had remained at the low point in 11 at the time, 136 thousand fewer children would have been born at the moment. We are committed to maintaining family policy measures in the current difficult economic situation, so that every child in every family can be born. Finally, allow me to make a suggestion. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Instead of taking pictures of your mobile phone, I recommend the browser function, the use of csalad.hu and kormany.hu. I think we'd all be better off with it. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Zsolt Gréczy: Never so few children were born... Shame on you!]]
u2023-04-03-102	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Fellow Members! Dear House, Mr. Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior: "Why doesn't the government want to help children with a difficult fate? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-04-03-103	Mr President, Dear House, It has already been mentioned today, and last year I presented this proposal for children with SNI, in the case that if there is no suitable development institution or educational institution in the area where they live, then there is a continuous demand for transport by family members, and in the case of this request, a fee can be used, which is HUF 21 per kilometer. This 21 forint/kilometer does not even cover the depreciation cost of the family's vehicle. Therefore, my previous proposal would have raised this to HUF 50 per kilometer. Let us not think that this will solve all the problems of the affected families, and indeed! They are given a level of entry to try to provide a normal, worthy life for their relatives, their successors, by bringing them to the necessary improvements. We see that if this full increase, i.e. a life-like increase, does not take at least two thirds or all of the amount of weed they have realised, only the cost of petrol if the child is to be transported to a remote settlement within the county. We also examined how much this would cost. When I presented the proposed amendment, it would have pushed this cost from 700 million to around 1.5 billion, at least as justified by the government's representatives there. Then they voted down this proposal to understand that war, sanctions and tight fiscal policy do not allow these few hundred million forints. The fact is that since then, the government has received about 1,500 billion forints that appeared as unexpected revenues, mainly due to the crisis and high inflation prices. This plus HUF 1500 billion is 1, i.e. one thousand percent of the children with SNI are asked to increase their travel support. My question is very clear: out of the unexpectedly realised extra income, this government wanted 1 000 [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] not 1 per cent, 1 per thousand for the family members of children with SNI. Thank you in advance for your reply. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2023-04-03-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2023-04-03-105	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Of course, it is of the utmost importance for us to support both children with SNI and their families, whether in education, development or anywhere else. I think it's everyone's duty. What these families are doing is enormous by trying to help their children, by developing them, so that they can achieve the best possible performance. I believe that the state's obligation to do so is to help them with all legal, development and even transport possibilities. You said your goal was to raise this amount to approximately 750 million forints. We have already been able to talk about this in one round today, and if you have listened and heard the figures here, you can see that the increase is much higher, because we are not talking about HUF 750 million in total, but we are talking about HUF 930 million in support of children with SNI, because, on the one hand, we are talking about HUF 73 million in public transport support, and on the other hand, about HUF 856 million in transport and HUF 930 million in total. The government has tried to increase these amounts in terms of both the SNI and other travel expenses, and not only in transport, travel, but also in other areas: they are, of course, free of charge in children's meals; they are entitled to a free public health care and credit card, and an additional discount, and in addition to the travel discount, the increased family allowance is indeed our obligation to help them in any way we can, and the range of these benefits can continue to expand year after year. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-04-03-106	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! That concludes the questions. Now, at 1:45 p.m., we move to immediate questioning. Congresswoman Olga Kálmán, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What do you know? It's an address. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the head of the DK Group has stated in advance that he is asking for a personal reply, so Prime Minister will have to reply at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions due to his absence. It is now up to the DK faction's next representative to ask a question, Gy. Congresswoman Erzsébet Németh, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: "Do you have any ideas? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Because of the Minister's absence, Mr András Tállai has given him the right to reply. I respectfully ask you to accept the identity of the responder.
u2023-04-03-107	Yes, thank you.
u2023-04-03-108	Thank you very much. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2023-04-03-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. A deep, dark social crisis that Hungary has not seen in many decades is unfolding before our eyes. Two million Hungarian old-age pensioner shopping baskets, i.e. the total price of the 20 food most frequently purchased by the elderly, increased by 52.2 percent in a single year. Once again, Mr Secretary of State, 52.2 percent, and this is the work of inflation in Orbán. This is a terrible number, because it is not about luxury products, it is not about Viktor Orbán's favorite lobster, but about bread, eggs, potatoes and some fruit; it is about basic foods that Hungarian pensioners can give up only at the cost of risk of their health. And yet, inflation in Orbán has cost these foods the most. In other words, the increase affecting pensioners is much higher than the increase in food prices on an historic scale affecting all Hungarians. And what do you do in the meantime, Mr. Secretary? Retirements drifting to the brink of hunger, what do they do for them? They point to war, even though inflation in Orbán began before the war, and nowhere else in Europe there is such a high price of food. They throw away a statutory pension correction to pensioners as alms, which is far from compensating for food price increases. They only trick with numbers, lie about raising pensions, while the pensioners' money is less every month, they can buy less food in stores, less money to pay seven times the bills. So I ask Mr State Secretary, you have some idea of how to stop the social disaster threatening the masses of Hungarian pensioners. Or they're gonna do nothing. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] to watch the crisis that threatens pensioners after working a decent life? Thank you for your reply. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2023-04-03-110	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Deputy Minister András Tállai, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2023-04-03-111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Allow me to begin with a zeroth theme. It was just a year ago, in the 7th constituency of Borsod County, I was the candidate for Fidesz-KDNP, and you had a candidate, a candidate named Adam Sermer, who came to the constituency with a loud voice and said that he was going to defeat the Fidesz candidate; he also promised some things to pensioners. I'm telling you, a year ago at 7:00 p.m.: András Tállai 60.42 per cent; Ádám Sermer 26.96 per cent [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] The difference is over 16,000 votes, more than twice as many votes. [[13.50]] I'm just telling you which party in Borsod County, South Borsod and many other parts of the country is the authentic party and which party they believe to represent. Therefore, when it comes to pensions, pensioners, I can tell you that there is one thing that must be different between Fidesz-KDNP's policy and your retirement policy. You guys didn't promise anything to the pensioners at the time, and you kept it. It was observed that when the situation of the economy got worse and a crisis started, there was a crisis in the country at the time, you reduced the pension, you took away the 13th month pension, you gave less pension increases than inflation. The Fidesz-KDNP government has promised to preserve the value of pensions and that if you look more closely at the pensioner policy of the last 12 years, you will realize that you have done this every year, even in the last year, when the situation was difficult and started in 2023 with the 15 percent increase in pensions, and this year will also be the year that we will keep the value of pensions from inflation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-04-03-112	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A woman representing a one-minute rejoinder is the one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2023-04-03-113	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Mr. Secretary, all you have to say is victory reports. [[Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] But I think it's outrageous that they don't even follow their own laws. He said that last year, the pension raises following inflation were passed on to the pensioners. They didn't get it. They got 1.2 percent less. This year's 15 percent increase should have been granted to pensioners until January of last year. So, Secretary of State, you are also the Secretary of State for Finance for this government, and I think it would be a good idea for you to count this down a little bit. The other thing I would like to say is that inflation will be above 25% in February, but most likely in March. If that's true, pensioners will lend the government during this quarter. That is why the shadow government says that at the end of this quarter a new pension correction should be given to pensioners with a payment in April, and let us not forget what the shadow government has been saying since November: a one-time payment of HUF 100,000 is needed for pensioners whose pension is below the so-called median pension, the HUF 142 thousand. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2023-04-03-114	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State.
u2023-04-03-115	Thank you very much. Let's watch last year. Last year, inflation was 14.5 percent [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: 15,2!]] [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: 15,2!]] 14.5 percent. (B. Erzsébet Németh: 15.2!) Check it out. 5 percent in January, 3.9 percent in July, 4.5 percent in November, plus the 13th month pension you took away. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh intervenes.]] But he forgot that Fidesz gave this back. Does inflation come out or doesn't come out? [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: It's not coming out!]] He's coming out, so you've failed to tell the truth again. When you talk about 25 percent inflation in February, don't forget that February/February inflation, that annual inflation, in February just started to decrease inflation in Hungary, started going backwards. I can promise you that if you have to give this government over 15 percent this year to preserve the value of your pension, this government will also fulfill it. Thank you very much. [[Lot. Elizabeth Németh: When? When, Mr. Secretary? It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-04-03-116	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Dávid Bedő, Ferenc Gelencsér, Szabolcs Szabó and Márton Tompos, representatives of the Momentum, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question. It's an address. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the head of the Momentum Group said in advance that he would ask for a personal reply, so that he will have to answer at the hour of the next immediate questions due to Mr. Prime Minister's absence. Dear House, As there has not been another immediate question from the Momentum Group, we now have a representative from the group that wants to ask the next question. Dear House, Member István Hiller, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister for Culture and Innovation an immediate question: "The Admission and Admissions." Honourable Congressman, Due to the Minister's absence, Mr Eszter Vitalyos, Deputy Minister of State, has given her the right to reply. I respectfully ask that you accept the person who is responding, or ask the Minister for his answer personally.
u2023-04-03-117	I accept, Mr. President, yes.
u2023-04-03-118	Thank you very much. It's up to Congressman. Here you go.
u2023-04-03-119	I accept, Mr. President, yes. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! A few weeks ago, details of applications for the 2023-24 academic year were recently published. Since more than 100,000 young Hungarians are directly involved, and more than one million Hungarian citizens together with their family members, it is shocking whether we do it or are related to them, it is worth talking about it in the Hungarian Parliament and examining the numbers more carefully. The thing is, as a benchmark, it is not right to make the last year, the last school year, because this is going on in a different system. The system with which you can compare it is when you didn't have to graduate at an advanced level, just like you did this year. In other words, the benchmark for the 2023 applications is 2019. This shows that there is a significant increase in some areas. 154 percent in the field of social sciences, 125 percent in the field of humanities and 139 percent in the field of legal sciences. Now, these are the three areas where the government said that the number of candidates should be reduced. In technical and scientific fields, he said that there should be an increase. In technical areas there is a decrease of 14 per cent and in the case of science there is a decrease of 7 per cent. Well, that's where they wanted to increase it. But in the case of undivided day training, we are faced with a tragic situation in educator training: the number of reporters decreased by 24 percent. I respectfully ask the Deputy Minister how she sees these data and what trends she thinks of this. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2023-04-03-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I said, will be given by Deputy Minister, Secretary of State, Eszter Vitalyos. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2023-04-03-121	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I see the picture a little differently than I do, Congressman. I'll get to the details soon, but I'd like to start a little further. We have operated universities within the framework of public finances for decades in Hungary, and we have failed to achieve a significant improvement in our position in that system. So we think that the later change was justified. In recent years there has been a successful turn of competitiveness in Hungary's higher education as 11 Hungarian universities are now elite, i.e. they are included in the world's top 5 percent, with two thirds of the students attending these universities. The number of publications published in internationally listed scientific journals also increased by 26 percent. It can therefore be concluded that autonomous, predictable and transparent, competitive higher education institutions have been established. I also think it is important to mention that while 69 percent of students had access to state-funded seats in 2010, today this proportion is 82 percent. There are only a few countries in Europe where students can learn so widely as state scholarships. The success of the renewed higher education system is also shown by the fact that more than 126 000 applications have been made this year under the now fully electronic admission procedure. The renewed recruitment system has increased the number of applicants by 27 percent, and despite all baseless attacks, more than 29 percent have chosen otherwise modeled universities. I'd like to move on to the numbers in the next minute. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-04-03-122	Thank you very much. Dear House, István Hiller is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2023-04-03-123	The Deputy Minister is right, because we do see the situation differently. I see that the foundation outsourcing did not serve or serve the issue of raising the quality of Hungarian higher education. But I see this as a policy of power, not a policy of higher education. [[14.00]] They created the curatoriums and created curatoriums in such composition that the people representing the current government and its conviction faithfully serve your interests in Hungarian higher education. And I don't see any rise in standards at all. Therefore, here in front of the public of the Parliament, just in the knowledge and knowledge of the aforementioned and detailed data, even when the admission itself did not take place, only the application, I call and ask you to avoid it before there is a major problem: the role of the state, especially in rural universities and in rural educational institutions, where the role of the state is significantly reduced [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] number of teachers' students, think again. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2023-04-03-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. For a one-minute rejoinder, I give the floor to Madam Deputy Minister.
u2023-04-03-125	Thank you very much. As I said in the previous speech, I would like to move on to the numbers. Yes, 2019 was the last year when there was no requirement for an increased level of graduation in the admission procedure. At that time, 112 thousand people applied for higher education, compared to which more than 126 thousand people's applications represent a 13 percent increase. Among other things, the number of teachers has increased by 4 percent; the number of people applying for agricultural programmes by 7 percent; and the number of people applying for IT courses by 3 percent. In the case of teacher and teacher trainings, the application of 4400 students in the previous year has increased to 5800 people, in which the proportion of teachers and teachers applying for short-cycle teaching also shows an increase above average. Moreover, it is a pleasure that more than 3,000 of the 5800 applicants wish to be recruited by STEM or MTMI, which is an increase in both state and non-state higher education institutions. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-04-03-126	Thank you very much, Madam Deputy Minister. Dear House, Fellow Members! Members of Mr Brenner Koloman and Mr László György Lukács, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What do you think of this, Prime Minister? It's an address. I would like to inform the House and my fellow Members that the leader of the Jobbik Group has said in advance that he is asking for a personal response, so that the Prime Minister will have to respond in the next hour of immediate questions due to his absence. The next question to be asked by Mr Ander Balázs and Mr László György Lukács, the representatives of Jobbik, who wish to ask the Minister of Interior an immediate question, is now to be followed. It's an address. Dear László György Lukács, Head of Production Due to the Minister's absence, Mr Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister of State was entitled to respond. I respectfully ask you, do you accept the person who is responding, or do you personally expect an answer from the Minister?
u2023-04-03-127	I'd like to wait for a personal answer. Thank you very much.
u2023-04-03-128	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The Minister must respond at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear House, Congressman Zoltán Sas, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question, "Do you intend to amend the National Security Act?" It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Due to the absence of the Minister for Justice, the question will be answered by Deputy Minister Répássy Róbert, Minister of State. I respectfully ask you, accept your response. [[On the signal of Zoltán Eagle:]] Thank you very much, Mr President, for expressing your acceptance of the response. Congressman Zoltán Sas has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-04-03-129	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Body, Secretary of State, I am addressing you on a legislative matter. The National Security Act has been in force for almost 30 years. In recent times, though there have been minor changes and minor wrinkles, I feel that it is almost time to make fundamental changes in this law. Such a change was, for example, the transformation of the national security control system, which must be recognised as making the national security control system much more effective and much more effective; this is a good change. A few months ago, an EU committee visited Hungary, where during the discussions there was an opportunity to talk about the authorisation of controls subject to external licences. There is also a unanimous opinion that there is a different type of system in Hungary compared to the Member States of the European Union: in particular, there is also the possibility of a judicial minister's permit for the use of external licenses, such as a wiretap. In the EU Member States, this case law is no longer a standard, decisively binding judicial licence on the use of such instruments, or there is a separate council to decide on this issue. I am convinced that the use of instruments subject to judicial authorisation can make this system much more transparent and much more secure. It is in the common interest of all of us that the social interest in the operation of national security services, the public confidence in it, be as full as possible, and I believe that the signature of a judge, if any, a judicial council, gives us sufficient authority and confidence that our secret services function legally, effectively and well. With all due respect, are you planning on remodeling this system? Thank you very much for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2023-04-03-130	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Répássy Róbert, Deputy Minister of State. Here you go.
u2023-04-03-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, You also referred to a human rights court ruling, not one, but more, in the case of Szabó and Vissy v. Hungary, so I would like to... [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: You didn't refer to anything like that.]] I apologise, but the Member has already submitted questions in writing, and that is why I know his position. I would like to inform you, Mr President, that the Government will comply with its obligations to amend legislation resulting from international commitments and judgments within the prescribed deadlines and according to the timetable agreed in the agreement. This applies, inter alia, to the 1995 CXXV on National Security Services. the necessary amendments to the Act. A change to the law is not yet on the agenda. Please accept my reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-04-03-132	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder will be given to Congressman Zoltán Sas. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-04-03-133	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Then, if I understand correctly, Mr Secretary of State has informed me that this kind of change will soon be introduced. I am glad of that, because judicial control can extend to that, because the past period has shown that it can even legally collect data against certain members of the powers of the state, whether it is this signatory State Secretary. I think that this will provide a sufficient guarantee that our services will operate in a transparent and legitimate manner. I can certainly offer you that the National Security Committee will put this issue on the agenda as soon as possible if you present it, and we are happy to share our experience with you in the legislative changes, because we want Hungarian services to operate as efficiently, as much as possible, in a more transparent and transparent manner as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2023-04-03-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. [[Dr. Répássy on Róbert's signal:]] Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State does not exercise that right. Dear House, Fellow Members! Mr. László Toroczkai Group leader, representative of Mi Hazank, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "When will we stop the skinning?" Is there any reform in the enforcement and justice system? It's an address. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the head of the Group of Mi Hazank has stated in advance that he is asking for a personal reply, so he must answer in the hour of the next immediate questions due to Mr. Prime Minister's absence. It is now up to the representative of the Mi Hazan faction to ask the next question. [[14.10]] Dear House, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, representative of Mi Hazank, Vice-President of the Parliament, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior a question, "What else are you doing with the teachers?" It's an address. Dear House, Minister Bence Rétvári, Deputy Secretary of State, granted the right to reply because of his absence. I respectfully ask the vice-president to accept the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Madam Vice President says she'll take it. Vice-President Dóra Dúró should take the floor. Here you go.
u2023-04-03-135	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Looking at the teachers' staff to see how much the problem is in education, not to mention that you promised in 2013 that the minimum wage would increase the wages of teachers and thus ensure that it is of value. That didn't happen, so now they have to work for so low a salary for the nation's day laborers, which, no wonder, is becoming attractive to fewer people. But you are about to commit another attack on teachers from June by abolishing their status as civil servants, and this change will put teachers in a worse position for about a dozen factors, even though it would have to make this career more attractive in order for our children to receive an adequate level of education. Why do you think that it will be attractive for anyone to be moved up to 90 kilometers away instead of a common understanding so far? Why do you think it makes the teaching career more attractive by raising the ad hoc replacement from 60 hours to 80 hours and reducing the replacement hourly rates? There will also be a decrease in the proportion of teachers who teach locally, and there will be more lecturers, which could also lead to deterioration. It is quite amazing that they will only be paid overtime if they work nights or weekends, and they also want to limit their freedom of speech by not being able to express their views on the public education system even outside their working hours. The appointment of directors will then take place without a proposal. This could also lead to a deterioration of the quality, not to mention that the GDP-related expenditure on the education system has been declining or stagnating since 2017 according to the data of the HCSO. Why not take steps towards quality education? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-04-03-136	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2023-04-03-137	Thank you very much. A non-negligible detail from the list of the vice-president: in parallel, teachers' wages increase by 75 percent in three years, and we hope that in two years from January we can expect an average pedagogue wage of between HUF 770 and 800 thousand. If you look at these legislative proposals, you will see that, to the greatest extent, the wages will increase for beginners, but to the greatest extent, the wages will increase for beginners, precisely because at the moment, a teacher's wages and performance are not in the proportion that everyone would consider ideal. Not just us, but when we invited 400 school representatives in last December there were schools that had previously organised protests, some that had not organised protests, the school principals and teachers agreed that a system of wages should be set up in education that would pay attention to performance. Because there are teachers who work 22 hours, and there are teachers who work 26 hours. Teachers teach 24 and a half hours on average, but the principal and no one has the opportunity to show the difference between the two in the wage, that those who work more do not earn more, there is no way for those who truly conscientiously pay more attention to children who come from difficult family conditions to have a higher salary. Even now, in the version we have presented, the salary of teachers who teach in a country where there are many disadvantaged children is 10 percent higher, but who cares more about them earns more. Anyone who is more talented earns more, who is more interested in camping, can earn more, and we can appreciate performance. You said you needed quality education. How do you think the current payroll can recognize quality? Because the new pay table that you're attacking recognises exactly the quality, the added performance, because we want quality education. How come you're demanding quality education, but you wouldn't pay higher wages for better quality work, you'd stay with the old system? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-04-03-138	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is due to Madam Vice President. Here you go.
u2023-04-03-139	Dear Secretary of State, When we also debated in Parliament ten years ago about the current teacher's career model and wage system, I myself criticized this because it was not sufficiently differentiated. You have accepted this payroll, you have created this teaching career, you have accepted it, I have not, for example, because it is not sufficiently differentiated. So you're the one who criticizes your own earlier decision. In 2021, the president of the National Pedagogical Faculty pointed out that an immediate 65 percent wage increase would only bring teachers' wages back to 2013 levels. If you are going to start a 75 percent wage increase for another three years, it means that even then we will not achieve in real terms what was already a characteristic of teachers in 2013. This really does not have an impact on quality education. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-04-03-140	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2023-04-03-141	Thank you very much. Then I feel that I can agree with the 2013 Dóra Dúró, and I cannot agree with 2023. At the time, it was a version that compared to the total static system at the time, who was a teacher from teacher to educator I., teacher I. to educator II, teacher II to master educator, there was a wage jump for more quality work, and now there will be a more direct and direct connection between the quality of work and the salary, because it was a 30 thousand or 70 thousand HUF jump. Now the school principal will really be able to motivate teachers to do extra work, because he himself knows the difference of hundreds of thousands of HUF between one performance and the other performance evaluation in wages. This will be a real incentive for those who care more about students to be more intensive, more attentive, and higher wages. I think that higher pay for quality work will lead us to more quality education and the HUF 800 billion EU and HUF 5600 billion budget money we intend to raise teachers' wages by 2030. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-04-03-142	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear House, Congressman! Members of András Jámbor and Bence Tordai, representatives of the Dialogue, want to ask the Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What is going on here? It's an address. Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, will reply, but I must respectfully ask the Member, Mr Bence Tordai, whether he will accept the person of the response or ask the Minister for his answer personally.
u2023-04-03-143	We are personally waiting for the answer from the Minister of Propaganda.
u2023-04-03-144	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Minister must reply at the hour of the second immediate question. Congressman Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What's going on? It's an address. In view of the fact that the leader of the Dialogue did not make a preliminary statement on the request for a personal reply, this should therefore be considered as not to be a personal response by the questioning representative on the basis of the decision-making house rule. Therefore, Mr Bence Tordai will have the floor, and I looked at Mr Balázs Orbán, who is the political director of the Prime Minister, who will answer. Congressman Bence of Turdai has the floor.
u2023-04-03-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Political Director, I would like to ask you about the energy policy failures of the Fidesz government in recent weeks. Paks II. in his case, you have just confessed to the Financial Times that what Benedek Jávor and the Dialogue-Greens have been saying for many years, in fact from the very beginning, that Paks II expansion is useless, harmful, it cannot and cannot be done, you have now seen, at least the last element, that you cannot do the Paks expansion with your Russian friends. We're happy for you. However, we are less pleased that on 31 March a lot of the deadlines that you have undertaken, including renewable energy, have expired. [[14.20]] Although one of the many commitments, the connection of solar panels to a network in a regulation was thought to be solved by some kind of half-solution, for example, in relation to wind power plants, which were submitted as a programme element for nearly EUR 6 billion of the recovery plan, no progress has been made there, the solutions submitted several times in recent years by the Dialogue-Greens have not been implemented. Due to the failure to comply with the deadline of 31 March, there is a great deal of omission here. Compared to the rule of law, every Hungarian citizen can lose 1.6 million forints per person on your inaction or incapacity, but the case of green energy will also fail on your inability to govern. If they go through their infinitely energy-intensive accumulator projects, an energy crisis can also occur in Hungary. I have three questions about this. In the area of wind power plants, you are finally planning to implement the solutions of the Dialogue-Greens, so you will allow wind power plants, if so, what will be the deadline for this, and who will be responsible for this set of failures? I look forward to your reply.
u2023-04-03-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, the answer will be given by Balázs Orbán, the political director of the Prime Minister.
u2023-04-03-147	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, First, I would like to ask for a clarification or a signal to you. The relevant Financial Times report may well be said to be one of the eloquent examples of misinformation in the international liberal press, as it is the Paks II report. Hungary wants to invest in cooperation with the Russian nuclear energy agency in the same way. Surely, as you know, there is not a problem with cooperation with Russia and Russia at the moment, but given that the investment in Paks is carried out within the framework of international cooperation, and there is therefore also western technology in the project, apart from Russia, primarily German and French, but other western countries are involved in the project, the problem is precisely German technology, and the opposition of the German Green Party government, because they block Paks II. the continuation of an investment. So if you are concerned about Hungary's energy supply and the future of the Paks investment, then I suggest that you lobby your fellow ideologists in Germany, to lift the blockage that at the moment forces the Hungarian government to look for alternatives in France or elsewhere. In order to modernise Hungary's energy and create energy sovereignty, energy security, Paks II. investment is indeterminate and necessary, just as the transition to renewable energy sources is also important. Solar energy also has a place in Hungary's energy mix, and what you specifically asked about, wind energy also seems to have a certain place in Hungary's future energy mix established in the coming years. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-03-148	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Bence Tordai. Here you go.
u2023-04-03-149	So you will continue to want to build a nuclear power plant in Hungary with Vladimir Putin, the internationally wanted war criminal. That's bad enough. And it's bad enough that you're wrong about wind farms. The fact that they support wind energy in theory is wonderful, we have known this for months, but the question was that if the deadline expired on 31 March, then why didn't they come up with at least one regulation or an amendment of the law, as the Dialogue-Greens had already drawn up and submitted several times instead of you. If they didn't hold the deadline, when will they be able to produce a legislative act other than nice words? It is also still a question of you taking responsibility for this, the Prime Minister, or pushing this whole incredible set of failures to the level of a minister or secretary of state.
u2023-04-03-150	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Balázs Orbán, political director. Here you go.
u2023-04-03-151	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, If you mention the issue of political responsibility, you and your political allies have been trying to prevent Paks expansion for years, without which Hungary's energy security and energy sovereignty cannot be guaranteed, and without which the green turnaround cannot be identified. It is not an accident that we are talking about an international cooperation involving various companies, including Eastern and Western companies, and if this investment is impossible and impossible, then I would ask you who will take responsibility for the fact that there will be insufficient electricity in Hungary. Do you take responsibility for the lack of reduced electricity prices in Hungary? These are all based on the expansion of Paks. I ask you to review your policy on this matter. Once again in relation to wind energy: Hungary has been at the European forefront in terms of renewable energy sources and their expansion in recent years. This is what we want to speed up and it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Energy to develop the necessary legislative and technological conditions. I suggest you contact them. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-03-152	Thank you very much, Director. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Lóránt Keresztes, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What do you think of this, Prime Minister? It's an address. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament and the Member of Parliament that the head of the LMP faction said in advance that he would ask for a personal reply, so that he will have to reply at the next hour of immediate questions due to his absence. It is now up to the representative of the LMP fraction to ask the next question. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister for Energy an immediate question:. He's gone? It's an address. Dear House, Due to the Minister's absence, Deputy Minister Zsófia Koncz has appointed a Secretary of State to respond. I ask the honourable Member to accept the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much, the Member indicates that he accepts the person who is responding. Congressman Antal Csárdi has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-04-03-153	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Madam Deputy Minister, I would like to ask for your help, in case we can find the answer to the question more effectively together. You are aware that on 31 March the deadline for the government's commitment to the EU Commission has expired, in which it was promised that a completely absurd restriction on the installation of wind power plants will be removed and that they have undertaken to hold a public, transparent consultation on wind energy and on the draft legislation that you have tabled. At the same time, they promised to enter into a transparent dialogue with the municipalities, and in the last week and in the last weeks, I sought this draft legislation in an extraordinary way, I sought the availability of the consultation, and I must admit that I could not find it, just as I could not find the dialogue with or the dialogue with the municipalities. That didn't happen. You didn't do your job. Yes, we know that there is a debate on wind energy within the Fidesz fraction and within the government, and we also know that Prime Minister is one of the opponents. At the same time, we could have guessed or expected that, in order to achieve the EU funds to come, Prime Minister will not prevent this. But nothing is going to happen, and my question is when this draft legislation will be made public, when will it finally have a meaningful dialogue with society and when there will be a public dialogue with the municipalities. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2023-04-03-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Zsófia Koncz, State Secretary. Here you go. [[14.30]]
u2023-04-03-155	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I would like to start by saying that, in recent times, solar energy has been a priority among the Hungarian government's ambitions, because we have been able to achieve the EU's targets by 2020. I think it's a very important thing. If we stick to solar power, the built-in solar capacity was over 4000 megawatts by the end of last year. By 2030, we promised 6,000 megawatts, and it seems that we can achieve these targets much earlier. Your question was specifically about wind power. I think that it is very important to deal with renewable energy sources in general, including geothermal, biomass, biogas and, of course, wind energy. Here, Minister Gergely Gulyás has already informed us that we have consulted the Commission on this, and in this connection, we will reduce the distance from the existing settlement border of 8 km in the future, somewhere around a kilometer, and what we have insisted on is the need for the local authorities to contribute. You have explicitly highlighted the issue of municipalities here. We are also of the opinion that it is particularly important to consult with the local authorities on this matter, because we are also talking about a serious aesthetic issue here, but green politicians in other places are expressing serious protests, as the construction of these wind power plants also leads to the mass killing of birds. So I think there are a lot of aspects that the government has to discuss here, and there are discussions on this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-03-156	Thank you very much, Madam Deputy Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Csárdi.
u2023-04-03-157	Dear Madam Deputy Minister, I'm asking you to honor the voters to answer the question. He did not answer the question of when there will finally be a public and transparent discussion with society on wind energy, when there will be a meaningful dialogue with the municipalities, and the most important thing is when the draft legislation will be submitted. You said, and quite simply the Prime Minister said, "Don't look at what we say, but what we do." The thing is, they say nice words at press conferences, but we don't see what they're doing. We would like to see the actions, so I would like to repeat my question more explicitly. Madam Deputy Minister, tell me: when will the draft legislation be available to the public? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2023-04-03-158	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Madam Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2023-04-03-159	Yeah. That is why I have been thinking about bringing this here, but I think this is the moment to mention this, too, in a very violent way, with strong demands for regulation on wind power plants. This is a serious matter, it must be discussed, we must consider the conditions under which we will expand this wind power plant capacity according to rules that are acceptable to people. But I would like to point out that it fills you with strangeness, when, for example, iconic green activists like Greta Thunberg protests, say, in Norway before the Energy Ministry, that they cannot install wind power plants. So what's happening to you is that there's a theme coming, so let's push it, push it, but what we need to see is that there's practically a debate in Europe, and how we're gonna do that. [[Antal Csárdi: You won't answer the question!]] It's really, really, really important to think about. So I would also ask you to talk about it, of course, in relation to wind power plants, but I think it is worth examining all possibilities. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-03-160	Thank you very much, Madam Deputy Minister. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman Attila Barcza, representative of Fidesz, would you like to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question: the national interest sold out in exchange for rolling dollars? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Répássy Róbert, Deputy Minister of State, was entitled to reply because of her absence. I respectfully ask you, accept your response. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much. Congressman, you say you'll accept the person you're responding to. Congressman Attila Barcza has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-04-03-161	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Ferenc Gyurcsány, President of DK and proud leader of the dollar left are already openly writing and saying that they are working at home, but primarily in Brussels, to put Hungary in a worse position. On Tuesday, in a Facebook post, Gyurcsány admitted that they were digging in Brussels to prevent Hungary from receiving the EU funds for him. So, as we can get used to from the dollar left, they deliberately want to harm Hungarian people in order to achieve their own power aspirations. Allow me to quote you from the post will not be easy, but I'll try. So it's a quote:. Therefore, we go against Orbán's government, where and as we can, we put pressure on it to liberate the country. Yes, we have worked to give the European Union conditions that break it down, or at least weaken Orbán's corrupt, self-conscious world. That man only understands from the power. Then it should be applied. And it's almost over, thank God, the Gyurcsány quote. The post in question also supports what has been emphasised many times in recent weeks: the left is constantly working to put Hungary, the Hungarian people, in the most disadvantaged position. Don't be surprised, because that's exactly why these dollars roll to them. It has long been known that the left is pro-war, and their intention is to drag Hungary into the war. I would do all this with the Hungarian people wanting peace, but of course they do not care the least. Dear Secretary of State, It is deeply disappointing that the left led by Gyurcsány will do what it does to regularly speak against Hungary in Brussels, and their goal now is not to give Hungary the resources it deserves. In the light of what has been said, is there really nothing for the left in exchange for rolling dollars? Thank you very much.
u2023-04-03-162	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Robert Répássy, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2023-04-03-163	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, It is not only that the President of the Democratic Coalition now openly claims that he is taking action against Hungary and is doing everything in the European Union to ensure that Hungary does not receive its money, but that when the Government in this House is submitting the legislative proposals with which we would like to support this agreement in agreement with the European Commission, the representatives of the Democratic Coalition will always vote against it. I would like to say a few of these laws, which have not been voted in favour of the Democratic Coalition: to amend the rules on declarations of assets in order to reach agreement with the European Commission; to amend the Act on DG Auditing European Grants; to effectively conclude the procedure for conditioning; to amend the Act on the right to self-determination and freedom of information in order to agree with the European Commission; to amend the law on the control of the use of EU budgetary resources; and then to agree with the European Commission on the amendment of the law on legislation and on social participation in the preparation of legislation. These legislative proposals were submitted by the government to the House in agreement with the European Commission, and all of them were voted against by the Democratic Coalition, so that not only in Brussels, Hungary is prevented from receiving EU funds for us, but it is constantly hindering agreement with the European Commission, that is to say, the enforcement of national interest, here in Parliament. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-03-164	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Congressman Attila Barcza has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2023-04-03-165	Thank you very much for the answer, Mr Secretary of State, which is quite worrying, but unfortunately, what happened in the past is also very worrying, and we must do everything we can to ensure that this does not come back. Let us not forget that the Balliberal governments sold Postabank among other things, which was then purchased by Erste Bank in Austria, but then advertised for sale the remaining Hungarian financial institutions. [[14.40]] This is how the Konsumbank was sold at the time and the sale of FHB Bank was launched. In addition, Mol's shares were sold, redeemed from Antenna Hungária and Budapest Airport, and they also privateized Malév, which, as a result, went bankrupt. The sale of national assets took place without any concept, and it was nowhere in the Central and Eastern European region as much as in our country. That's why, in my opinion, they're still getting these dollars, like a salary from abroad. So while the government is working day and night to reach agreement with the Commission, they are working against it. I ask that we do and that the government do everything in its power to give Hungary the resources. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-04-03-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder from the Deputy Minister, please.
u2023-04-03-167	Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, I would also like to respond to the sentence he quoted by Ferenc Gyurcsány, who said that the force should be applied; and he meant this against the government. Well, the problem is that many of us remember when Ferenc Gyurcsány was in power and actually used force, even violence, to use force against opposition protestors. Never again should the power that employs power against its own citizens apply the lawless force. A number of court judgments prove that these were illegal police abuses. To this day, Ferenc Gyurcsány has never accounted for these court judgments and this force application. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-04-03-168	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, a representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:, How can we continue to defend ourselves effectively against the new masses of illegal migrants threatening our country and our borders? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. [[Nacsa Lawrence rises to speak, then nods.]] Thank you very much for indicating to me that you accept the person you are responding to. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, please.
u2023-04-03-169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, It has been almost eight years since the unprecedented wave of migration from the Middle East and Africa to Europe has begun. At that time, the flood continued to march on Hungary's borders primarily towards Western Europe. However, the government did not do nothing, unlike the other European countries that hosted migrants with open arms, immediately started to build a fence to protect the border, and then completed the technical barrier with enhanced lively protection and gradually stricter legislation, i.e. with a legal border closure. Thanks to the resulting triple border closure and the massive Hungarian defence at international political level, hundreds of migrants no longer camp at Keleti Railway Station and do not march in Hungary. This is not the case, however, in Serbia on the other side of the southern border, where the inhabitants of cities and villages are forced to live in fear of their everyday lives, despite the new and new hard police action. In many places, they dare to go out on the street only in the most necessary cases. Meanwhile, the situation is tense on the Mediterranean routes. Nevertheless, the European Union is still pushing for a compulsory quota system. The LIBE Committee of the European Parliament adopted four elements of the EU migration package last Tuesday, including a proposal for the distribution of asylum seekers to the EU between Member States. It is happening that Brussels still does not give Hungary a penny to finance the maintenance and operation of the Hungarian border fence, which also protects the southern borders of the European Union. Over the last seven years, the government has built the fence at the southern border with billions of euros, which has kept hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants away from the Hungarian border and also from the EU border each year. If you look at this year alone, by the end of March, over 27,000 border offenders have been caught by the police talking about this year, and nearly two hundred and forty smugglers have been prosecuted. Hundreds of migrants are trying to reach the southern border every day, and our cops are standing up. I ask Mr Secretary of State how we can continue to effectively defend ourselves against illegal migrants threatening our country and our borders. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-04-03-170	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I said, is to be addressed to Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State.
u2023-04-03-171	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Greece, Croatia, Latvia, Lithuania, Hungary, Malta, Poland, Romania, Slovakia; these countries adopted a joint declaration in Athens, Greece a few weeks ago demanding the leadership of the European Commission to provide financial support to protect the external borders. Some of these countries, most of them external border countries in the European Union, some of them do not have an external border, but they are committed to border protection, and as we calculate, this is well over a dozen countries within the European Union, so that many countries' governments demand Brussels to finally take this issue seriously, to take it seriously, not to be the smugglers who decide who they bring to Europe and who they do not, so that the smugglers do not decide who they are and who they are not, but to give us tangible, joint support to protect the external borders of the European Union together. They speak of solidarity from vision to blindness in Brussels, but by solidarity they only mean that everyone should be accepted and distributed within the Union. And they do not consider as part of solidarity that some countries are protecting the external borders. The Member also referred to it: Hungary spent HUF 650 billion on protecting the external borders. The maintenance of the fence costs Hungary HUF 30 billion a year, but we are not only protecting Hungary, but protecting Europe as a whole. It is not a risk-free attack on 477 border guards last year. There have been 104 reports of shots fired on the Serbian side of the border, and 24 were fired by a series of shots fired on the Serbian side. This, as well as the deteriorating public security and terrorist attacks, protects Europe from the Hungarian, southern border fence. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-04-03-172	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. One-minute rejoinder from Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, please.
u2023-04-03-173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. We see that more and more European countries are building fences. In many cases, the countries that lived and made political careers in 2015 are the countries that abused the Hungarian border fence. We would like to thank the police, soldiers, border-hunting squads who guarantee the safety of Hungarian people, and it is very important that we stand on the ground of international treaties and keep the external borders of the European Union in line with international treaties. We think it is shameful that the European Union has not wanted to contribute to this in any way, even though the President of the Commission himself has repeatedly confirmed that the external borders should be protected, while the Balliberian majority of the European Parliament adopts proposals in which it pushes the quota and tries to further promote the import of migrants. The Hungarian government and Fidesz-KDNP stand by their position: we will continue to defend Hungary's borders. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-04-03-174	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is a matter for the Deputy Minister.
u2023-04-03-175	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, If we look at how many people died in a terrorist attack in the European Union, we can see that more than 2,000 people have lost their lives. The youngest victim was a year old, the oldest was 90 years old. 91 percent of the victims died of Islamic jihad, and 20 percent of the victims died of suicide attacks. Spain and France are the ones where terrorism took the most of its victims within Europe. On the other hand, what does Gergely Christmas say? We are convinced that a diverse community with different cultural characteristics and backgrounds will strengthen and drive Hungary forward, so Gergely Christmas spoke as a pro-immigration politician. Bence of Tordai said that the fence built on the southern border is pointless, inhuman and wasteful. Compared to this, it is this fence that, last year, stopped an illegal attempt to cross the border with a population of Debrecen and Saturdays. Ferenc Gyurcsány said that Hungary would benefit specifically if it accepted immigrants. Unfortunately, the Hungarian left is as much as Brussels is pro-immigration, because they are paid from abroad. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-04-03-176	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear House, Congressman Ferenc Dávid, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister for Economic Development an immediate question:. What are they planning to do with inflation? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Due to the Minister's absence, Mr János Fónagy, Deputy Minister of State, has given him the right to reply. I respectfully ask you to accept the identity of the responder. [[Dr. Ferenc David nodds.]] Thank you very much. Congressman tells me that he accepts the person who is responding. Congressman Ferenc David, please.
u2023-04-03-177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Prime Minister has instructed us to have one-digit inflation by the end of the year. It will not be easy to complete the task, as the 26.2 percent inflation measured by Eurostat in January will be further boosted by the introduction of price caps. [[14.50]] The value of more than 25 percent in February is not a reason for optimism. The rise in prices may be limited by the decline in solvent demand, but this means that a significant part of Hungarian society consumes less and lower quality products this year than last year. In this case, the Prime Minister's orders will be like those of the King in the Little Prince of Saint-Exupéry, who commands the Sun to rise at dawn, in the evening, to calm down, and the sun will obey. However, this price increase is not such, it does not stop, inflation remains a fast tracker. Today, inflation is the highest in the European Union. Sixteen EU countries have already suffered a one-digit deterioration, and our inflation is two-and-a-half times the EU average. War and sanctions affect all Member States as much as we do, but they are nowhere near ours. The question of why food inflation in Hungary is higher than in other EU countries could be raised. Why is it that one third of our regional competitors have a slower rate of food price explosion than we do? Poland, the Czech Republic and Slovakia are affected and affected by the energy crisis, all the negatives of the drought year and the war shock, but they are still more effective in fighting the loss of money than Hungary. In fact, there is no country in the world that would be more affected by war than Ukraine, but February inflation was already lower than ours. The price caps had to be introduced in autumn 2021 and January 2022. War, especially sanctions, wasn't even mentioned at the time. Tell me, Secretary of State, how do you intend to curb inflation?
u2023-04-03-178	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, the answer is given by Deputy Minister János Fónagy, Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2023-04-03-179	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the prolonged war and the penalties that you have forgotten are affecting Europe as a whole, affecting the economy, causing energy crises and inflation. The government has set itself the objective of reducing inflation to one digit by the end of the year in order to protect families, full employment and pensioners, and not least to prevent recession. So far, some 20 measures have been taken, ten of which protect businesses and jobs, and ten more protect families and pensioners. These measures, including the food price stop and interest stop mentioned by you, have peaked in inflation and have started to decline slowly. The government is constantly looking for instruments to further reduce inflation. In addition to the known measures, the Ministry of Economic Development supported the proposal of the President of the Economic Competition Authority to establish an online price monitoring database. International experience shows that increasing price transparency and the comparison of consumer prices increase competition, which has a long-term mitigation effect on prices and, last but not least, strengthens consumer awareness. The aim of the online price monitoring service is to make available to the public a database that enables the development of consumer prices to be compared in a transparent way, to prevent overpriced, which we also try to prevent by other means, while at the same time significantly increasing competition in the domestic retail sector.
u2023-04-03-180	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Dávid Ferenc. Here you go.
u2023-04-03-181	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. I'll be extremely brief. It is worth comparing the effectiveness of the Hungarian anti-inflationary measures. I don't know, Mr Secretary of State had the opportunity to look at the latest Eurostat figures at the end of the week, which show inflation figures in the 20 euro area countries. I say the numbers of the top line: 3 percent in Luxembourg, 3.1 percent in Spain, 4.5 percent in the Netherlands, 4.9 percent in Belgium, 6.6 percent in France, and 7 percent in Malta. These are also the same comparisons, year/year, February/February, and these are already March data. The latest Hungarian numbers are 23,1, 25, 26,2, 25,8. There are terrible differences. You may have heard the Prime Minister on Friday, Mr Secretary, when he said that inflation should be stuck in the neck and that corn should be broken. Well, that's not how it works. If there is an international knowledge, it has to be taken over, those procedures have to be applied, and we could have numbers like Luxembourg, Spain, the Netherlands and Belgium. Thank you very much.
u2023-04-03-182	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is a matter for the Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2023-04-03-183	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, There are indeed very significant differences in numbers, but there are also significant differences in the country. Compare Luxembourg or Belgium with a country bordering Central Europe and Ukraine, I think it is not only a technical mistake, but also unfair. Which is the immediate danger caused by the war, if you have mentioned it: please think about the fact that we are originally destined for Africa from Ukraine and then through Hungary, because we are the largest land crossing point in Hungary, what it means for Hungarian agriculture and what it means for Hungarian producers. I think it is very unworthy of what you wanted me to say in your list. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-03-184	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. This is the last immediate question. Congressman Gyula Földesi, representative of Fidesz, would you like to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question, "Do you succeed in impeaching violent anti-fascists?" It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Minister Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister of State, granted the right to reply because of his absence. Thank you for indicating to me that you accept the person you are responding to. Congressman Gyula Földesi has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-04-03-185	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Back in February, a shocking series of attacks took place in the capital, during which a group of mostly foreign activists beat peaceful passersby with brutal cruelty. In all cases, multiple outnumbers, yet in a sneaky way, were attacked from behind, using their victims, sticks, hammers, vipers. In particular, it is outrageous that the victims of this crime were always chosen solely on the basis of their appearance. The beaten men gave no reason to attack them, nor did they even have an argument. Following these cases, it soon became clear that it was an import of violence. The perpetrators were members and supporters of an international far-left organization called Antifa. They came to Budapest and their goal was to cause disorder and confusion. It is unacceptable for members of an extremist left-wing violence organization to beat up Hungarian citizens on the streets of Budapest, simply because, according to their appearance, they assume that their political convictions are different from theirs. It is unacceptable for violence and subversive acts to be carried out in Hungary out of political conviction. We have a public consensus that violence cannot be tolerated in any way. The highest level of action by law enforcement agencies is needed in order to prevent this left-wing violence organization from setting foot in our country. Dear Secretary of State, Is there still an investigation or investigation in this case? Have you been able to hold the perpetrators accountable? Folyike targeted work in law enforcement to detect Antifa's activities in Hungary and prevent its primary attacks later on? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-03-186	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Deputy Secretary Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2023-04-03-187	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Not only the Budapesters, but everyone in Hungary was outraged by the fact that the Hungarian cell of the Antifa movement called people from abroad, Germany, Italy, to believe that in other countries known and well-known criminals have also come to Hungary as a terrorist organization, and people have been attacked here, as you have referred to them, only on the basis of their dress and in broad daylight on the Hungarian streets. They were usually attacked from behind, first struck on their knees to fall to the ground and were beaten like that. So, first, they tried to push them from behind to the ground, while blowing them off with pepper spray and those who could be witnesses so that they couldn't see who did this, and the perpetrators tried to cover their faces. All violence is unacceptable, but if someone so cowardly attacks from behind and then tries to make witnesses impossible, that's what I'm saying, I think it really upsets a lot of people. [[15.00]] Unacceptable! This is not customary in Hungary. This may happen in Germany, it may happen in Italy, but this has not happened in Hungary, and it will not happen. And what is even more outrageous is that the representatives of the Szikra Movement, especially Mr András Jámbor, who is sitting here in Parliament, then called on the authorities for an apology and demanded satisfaction from the members of the movement in public. Those who have made a philosophy out of the fact that a political disagreement or a perceived political disagreement can be resolved by force, and people who are completely unknown to them, thought of as something based on their clothing, a good part of whom was foreign, was a tourist, so it was not Hungarian, to attack them. Congressman Torda and Congressman Jámbor should also tell us how they know these people, what they were encouraged to do, and how they helped them in their election campaign, as they were also photographed in the election campaign together. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-03-188	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Congressman Gyula Földesi is entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2023-04-03-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, We're talking about an import of violence, and we're wondering who the importer is, who those foreign criminals are. It is also likely that someone has helped the perpetrators of violence to organize the action, so if I may, Mr Secretary, I would like to ask you a further question: who and how can help import antifascist violence? Who is in the interest of disrupting social order by acts of violence?
u2023-04-03-190	Thank you very much, Congressman. I thank you for your cooperation before I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Vice-President Sándor Lezsák will take over the lead and I will give the floor to Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári. Here you go. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2023-04-03-191	I would like to thank both Presidents for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The Hungarian authorities will come to the end of this case, they have also sought out foreign co-governments, and they are trying to reveal the identity of all the perpetrators, and we are trying to prevent this from ever happening in Hungary. But it is outrageous that the Hungarian left legitimizes street violence not for the first time in history, and demands in the name of those who were the philosophical bedkeepers of beating anyone on the Hungarian streets by physical violence. After all, if foreign tourists were attacked by vipers or other means with iron pipes, then any Budapest passerby could be the victim of these Antifa groups, extremist left-wing political groups at any time. But there won't be, because the Hungarian police, the Hungarian government, will act on the contrary, no matter how much András Jámbor and his associates have been trying to excuse these people for weeks and months. There is no excuse for that, and there can be no continuation. This violence must be banished from the streets of Budapest. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-03-192	I salute my fellow Members. Thank you for the Secretary of State's reply, and I am not thanking you, but who asked. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Sándor Bodó, representative of Fidesz, who is 50 years old, applied for a post-meeting speech with the title of Hortobágy National Park.
u2023-04-03-193	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that there are often loud debates between the walls of this House, but there is one thing, and I hope there is more, in which we can definitely agree, and that is, in my opinion, the key issue of the unique natural values of the Carpathian Basin, the unique natural values of Hungary. We tend to deal with this subject occasionally on the sidelines, we tend to say that there are so many problems in the world, so many problems even in our country that in addition to these values we sometimes leave without saying a word. Now there is an important event that deserves to be discussed here in the house of the country, and that is to say that the country's first national park, Hortobágy National Park, will be 50 years old this year. 50 years is a long time, but it doesn't really seem that much in terms of natural values. The Hortobágy we know that it once belonged to the town of Debrecen and preserved its characteristic features, which can still be found until the day. Of course, a lot of things have changed, and economic developments have appeared, which are essentially life aliens from the wilderness, so it is very important to have an island that is not so small, because today it is 82,000 hectares that bring back the past, presenting it to the present man, the next generation. Hortobágy National Park has undertaken this mission. The fact that his birth was difficult, his departure, we all know that, indeed, in those years it came to light that the entire Hortobágy wilderness should be divided into some kind of cooperative, state-owned form, and even before that, very unpleasant memories could be associated with the Hortobágy evacuations, so there was a long history that the wilderness, Hortobágy, had to strip off of itself, overcome it, and regain the mission that had been characterized in the previous hundred years. Well, as I mentioned, the Hortobágy wasteland is 50 years old, and by the way of the 50th anniversary, it's worth a short reckoning of what's happening on Hortobágy. The first special value is, in any case, the bird world that is nesting and moving in these circumstances, and it can really show its presence, and in the context of this observation, the way of life that has been implemented and experienced by those who have lived there over the past centuries. As I mentioned, the area where introduction is possible has grown to 82,000 hectares, so, in four counties, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén, Hajdú-Bihar, Heves County, and a small area from the Szatmár-Bereg plain can be felt. The attention to the Hortobágy National Park came to a very important step in 2012, when the Minister of Culture appointed him to perform the duties of janitor of the Puszta World Heritage Site. It might seem that we are trying to provide this mission with administrative measures, but we are very, very far away from it, which we might perhaps be able to prove by what programs can be observed, experienced and implemented in this environment, which are the programs on which we can draw the attention of visitors. I think that, rather than any administrative measure, it is more important to bring these values closer to the inhabitants of the city or to those coming from other regions, so that the Easter of April, for example, in Hortobágyi Vadaspark, bird-sounding spring on Hortobágy or the soon-to-be launch holiday, is all a value and a special feature that actually moves tens of thousands of people. And so it will be all year round, I strongly recommend that you visit the website of the 50-year-old Hortobágy National Park, because there you will receive a very precise and precise guide. Finally, I would like to thank everyone who has worked for this value in previous years, working now, and especially for the leaders of the national park, as Hortobágy really is a very special value from the past and a message to the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the LMP.]]
u2023-04-03-194	Thank you very much, Congressman Sándor Bodo. Róbert Dudás, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-meeting speech: I am not looking for those responsible, I am looking for solutions! It's an address.
u2023-04-03-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I give this title to my speech several times, that I am not looking for those responsible, but solutions! On this subject, too, I think it can be said that I am working towards a solution, and many others on this issue, but this issue also raises the issue of responsibility and the search for those responsible. A lot of people will remember it last summer, when Hungary experienced an extremely droughty period, the Tarna River was expanded by a winery, a winery in Aldebrő and pumped that water out of it. [[15.10]] It is safe to say that he drank wine and pumped water, the only problem is that his act is not funny, because, in addition to the damage he has caused to local and local farmers, because he has pumped out every drop of water from the river in a bad way, he has had an extraordinary, very serious effect on the environment, and otherwise he has had irreversible consequences, and it has had a very serious impact on animals and animal life, because the wild animals had nothing to drink, and the drought of the river has completely destroyed the wildlife of the river. That's when local people, local civilians, local activists who went there and broke down these illegally built dams. Instead of repenting, however, the perpetrators can safely say, as they say to us, that they are still above them, and since then, although an investigation is being conducted, they are full of threats. They threaten me with political relations, they threaten me with various influences, they try to make it impossible for those who otherwise side with the good cause. Who was in favor of the good cause? All local people, all local NGOs, political parties, while taking care not to have this case politicized, at the same time all political parties stood up for the good cause, explained their sympathy, except for government parties. Not only were they not opposed to the unsub, but they were so in favour of him that the legal representative was given to him, as far as I know, to this day, a person who is still in office as a local government, and, by the way, several years ago, he also served as Vice-President of the Heves County Assembly. But how untrue the outrage of the locals is, and indeed the act that this winery has done is real, the disaster management authority in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County also found that last July, during an on-the-spot inspection, it found that there were illegal dams, illegal removal of water is taking place, and therefore imposed a water management penalty. This is a very important issue, as I have already mentioned, and it is very important to conclude this as soon as possible. It would be very important, because it would be an important message to the perpetrators and to everyone else who might otherwise be thinking in the same way, and it would also be a very important message to those who have taken the right step, that they have done the right thing, that their actions will be rewarded, and that the authorities will also agree with what they have done. Therefore, when the case is closed, we trust, there is great confidence in everyone, every local and every neighborhood, and even through the Internet portals, a country could have followed this activity, and we trust that they will really be punished. When this is gonna close, unfortunately, you don't know. At present, the Füzesabony Police Department is investigating this case, so in order not to accidentally influence the course of the case, and not to rush it, but still, if you can say so, stressing the importance of closing this case, I will appeal to the Füzesabony Police Department this week, asking them to do their best to close the case properly. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2023-04-03-196	Thank you very much, Congressman Róbert Dudás. János Bencze, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-meeting speech. What is happening here? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2023-04-03-197	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, After the previous agenda, I've shown that it's been 33 years since the change of regime. It is worth looking through this period to see what is happening here in this country. Everyone knows that 33 years ago, the enthusiastic young people of that time, like the former Fidesz, went there to catch up with Austria and arrive in a country of good economic condition in about 20-30 years. 20 years are up, 30 years are up, and where are we? Well, first I'd like to start with a simple mathematical formula. You have to watch it for 33 years. In more than half of these 33 years, Fidesz, led by Viktor Orbán, was governed by the government. More than 50 percent of the time. Well, let's see what happened. Did he ever get a little better in the Hungarian countryside or even in Hungary? Those who go down to villages, go down to small towns, small settlements, see nothing but destruction, depopulate in small villages, sell people, leave, no jobs, no jobs for 33 years. Any propaganda can be released, they don't have one either. The Hungarian rural man, especially in the last 12 years, has been used as an industrial biorobot, because, following the example of the previous governments, the Fidesz government has done one thing, entrusted Hungary with industrialization to industrial companies of foreign powers, and they are not a charitable foundation, they are going to profit in nature, they are taking it out, and the Hungarian workforce is being eviscerated. It's not worth living in the countryside, it's not worth living in the countryside, because you can't make a living in farming, and you have to go to industry for several hours a day. Why can't agriculture make a living? I have already told you once: we have come to the conclusion that the left has trained its own green barons with privatisation lands. Fidesz came, raised his own green orange barons with state lands. Fair rural farmers had a minimal amount of land, and land prices were raised so that a hectare of good quality land could be bought for 2.5-3 billion forints. In the eviscerated countryside, people are unable to do so, young people are unable to make a living on farming, moving closer to the industrial centers rather than having to come in. And what happens in the Hungarian countryside? The same orange barons slowly buy the depopulated houses, destroy them, and plow the land along with the gardens. The countryside is not being built, it's being destroyed. This has not been hindered by the canopy canopy you have built, the square-stone marketplaces in nothing, but has made the situation worse, because the money that could have been invested in the rural economy has simply been stolen. What happened to the Hungarian agricultural processing industry, which flourished 33 years ago, Western farmers and companies protested against it, and today there is nothing? Your oligarchs, your Green Barons, have applied for these funds, and, as the example of several meat companies has shown, after they've pumped everything out of it quite thoroughly, they let it go after the maintenance period. The same thing happened to the cooperative system. They used it as a cash pump as long as it worked. I stress that more than half of you, the Fidesz, have governed. Let's look at the rural road network, the rural village of life. The road network is going down slowly, it's going down, public transport is going down. Medical offices have ceased in 33 years, the post offices, the convenience stores are shutting down, everything is about to go away. You can point to the left, this is the responsibility of the system-shifting parties, also called the left- and right-wing Fidesz. What I see is that it didn't bring results, and you didn't bring results, but both of the squads filled the pockets of their own oligarchs. Well, thank you very much, I wouldn't want any of this in the Hungarian countryside. I would like to see a change in the development of the Hungarian countryside, the development of the Hungarian countryside on the basis of the remaining agriculture and processing, not being exposed to foreign industrial multinationals, and not being the only life we have to live as industrial robots traveling for several hours a day. So a better future for Hungary! Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2023-04-03-198	Thank you very much, Mr János Bencze. Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-meeting speech. It's an address.
u2023-04-03-199	Mr President, Dear House, Hungarians spend the most on banking services. This is the title of a 2019 article, a summary report, when the recent research of the Hungarian National Bank concluded that the Hungarians, and those of them with very little revenue, are the minimum wagers who spend the most in a European comparison to have a bank account, a credit card, and typically to carry out basic transactions. At that time, 1.13 percent of the net income of those with low incomes was spent on banking costs in Hungary. Based on the data at that time, it was up to HUF 13,200 a year for those who do not make very good money. It is very interesting that it is 0.18% in France, 0.19 percent in Denmark and zero percent in the UK, as there is actually a zero-percent bank account for free. [[15.20]] And what we see is that, looking at the European map, it is not possible to find cheaper or more expensive places according to direction or Western East division, in general, where governments of different colours have left them either to fish in confusion or to conclude very favourable agreements with banks, there have been similar processes and phenomena. Hungary is well-known, is it not, as we look back on the disastrous situation of foreign exchange lenders, that the governments here tend to like to agree with banks at the expense of customers and citizens. But the fact is that this has direct consequences, and one of the direct consequences is the range of extremely expensive bank costs. And what we can see is that while they were trying to maximize the basic bill's fee in the past, now reading the daily news, we see that in April, May, banks are raising in a series, there is no one to exclude themselves from these processes. And what we see is that inflation is the usual increase, but it's not uncommon. We see that there would be no obstacle in Hungary to the establishment of a free bank account, a zero bank account, and since almost all governments have taken steps in this direction, we just do not understand why they stopped at a certain point. So why can't we really get zero forints for the basic account management fee, for the scope of the basic transactions and for example the inter-bank transfer, the transfer within the bank, the permanent transfer order and the collective direct debit order. Cash withdrawal is another irritating factor, since when this HUF 150,000 free cash withdrawal option was introduced on two occasions, they were about to target the net average wage at that time. But it is like the various forms of family support or the possibility of a health fund tax credit, or pension savings, that although inflation is spinning and raging, the amount of these can be realised every year does not increase with inflation, so this 150,000 HUF cash withdrawal is worth less and less every year. It would be absolutely justified to adjust this to the average net payment according to the HCSO each year. We know that it doesn't fully reflect reality because it leaves out more than 1.5 million workers, typically earning less, but I say that it can be a good standard, and that the amount of cash that we can have free access to could increase annually, I stress, with our own money. So, with such amazing revenue opportunities as the domestic banking system realizes, these financial institutions are not in need of once again to pull down various sharks from the already taxed money of people with typically low incomes in Europe, especially in addition to the fact that they can basically pass on the transaction fee to people without obstacles. Therefore, we call on the government to establish a climate for the possibility of a zero-invoice package, while free cash withdrawals and other forint limits follow inflation in all cases and follow it for the benefit of customers. And overall, it is a life-like expectation that we not only have access to our money up to the minimum wage, but to the average wage, but if we do basic transactions, we can usually do this for free, since you can also use our money at the bank. In happier historical times, this was enough for financial institutions to make a profit in order to make a profit. The fact is that today it is not enough for them, but that is why a country has legislation. Protect customers, protect Hungarian citizens who are called consumers and are now protected by consumer protection law, who are more our countrymen than consumers. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] and our own family, our own relatives, friends, acquaintances. This protection is therefore due to all Hungarian citizens. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2023-04-03-200	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Péter Ovádi, representative of Fidesz, has applied for a post-meeting speech:. Our joint concern is the title of animal protection.
u2023-04-03-201	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Animal protection is coming up more and more on the immediate issue or in interpellation, which, of course, I am very pleased about, but I see that there are times when my fellow left-wing Members are not aware of the work that the government is doing on this subject, and I thought that I would present this to this House. In 2021 we launched an online survey with Prime Minister Zsolt Nyitrai, and 262 thousand responded. This shows how many of us are in favor of animal protection. We started work after that because we also set up the National Animal Protection Council. What we wanted there was for civilians and the profession to be able to work together; we have been working undisturbed ever since, and I think that the National Veterinary Council has been able to take a position on a great deal of professional matters so far. However, we already saw the need for support from civil society organisations. Then, with the help of Prime Minister's Commissioner, we were able to support 67 civil society organisations; and when we consult civil society organisations, they always tell us how important it is to launch a spaying programme that is very much needed. That is why we included the call for responsible livestock in the Hungarian village programme. A HUF 500 million grant has been set in the programme "Hungarian Village" (Hungarian Village). More than 600 municipalities have successfully applied, 18,000 dogs and cats will be neutered in this. Such a programme has not been possible in recent years. Also, calling for responsible livestock is one of the most important challenges. We know that we can be successful together in the field of animal protection if today's child, the keeper of the future, is responsible for animal welfare. That's why we started the. Animal Protection for Kids and Facebook page, which is why we're launching the program of the Gazdi jogsi, which is now going to tell children. Actually, we started the animal protection week last December. For the first week of animal protection, 1300 educational institutions have applied; we have been able to involve 130,000 children with the help of thousands of teachers, and thanks to everyone who participated in this program. We will, of course, continue this year, because we have been very successful in this programme. But if we are in Parliament, I have to mention it, we have been able to make it a common matter of animal protection, because what we have submitted to Parliament together with civil society organisations as a bill concerning the tightening of the criminal code has been adopted unanimously, which I thank very much the left-wing fellow Members very much. I think it is a very great achievement that it is possible to punish not only the organizers but also the participants in the animal fight. Classified cases have been created, up to five years of imprisonment for an animal torturer. And in Europe, we have described in a unique way who are the illegal breeders, because they are the main victims of animal protection, and we are trying to deal with them by all legal means. The population of stray animals is a very big problem in Hungary, which is why we thought that we would also rethink the regulation of stray animals. We put this together with the civilians. This is where we set out the responsibilities of the pedigree settlements. I think that in the long term, too, this will lead to success. Of course, animal protection cannot and should not be separated from the work of civilians. There are a lot of civilian volunteers working in this sector, and they need very much help, which is why I am pleased that the government was able to provide their operation with HUF 500 million in support. 187 NGOs have successfully applied. By the way, let me tell you, whoever applied wins in this frame. But, of course, we have to go on with this, because there is the energy crisis, and there are a lot of situations that need to be resolved now, and these are now challenges in animal protection. So we, with the government, will continue to help these civil society organisations. I am asking you to continue to support animal protection, as has been the case so far. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-03-202	Thank you very much, Congressman Péter Ovadi. Péter Balassa, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-meeting speech:. Problems in patient care. What's next? It's an address.
u2023-04-03-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, We are exactly one year after the parliamentary elections, and I do not know if you can see the catastrophic situation of Hungarian health on the Moon. Think about their unethical struggle with the Hungarian Medical Chamber or the new health law that already has its negative impact; think about centralization; think about the temporary closure of emergency departments and the restructuring of the on-call system. [[15.30]] But let's start with emergency medical care, and in particular Veszprém County. Surely many remember the elimination of the active beds of Tapolca Hospital, which later was a huge burden for both the lips hospital and the ambulance, since the mutilation of Tapolca Hospital required the transport of patients to Ajka within 24 hours, while despite the increase in patient traffic, Ajka had no more professionals. Thanks to the persistent work and our former fellow Member, Lajos Rig, the hospital in Tapolca has added emergency reception points and 15 medical beds, which were handed over in 2018, but you also temporarily ended a year later, referring to the pandemic. The department has not been reopened since then, so the paramedics must continue to transport the patients to Ajka, Veszprém. The elimination of 15 active beds in Tapolca Hospital proved to be a particularly bad decision concerning the supply of nearly 70,000 people in the region, which was added to another catastrophic decision in recent weeks: the temporary closure of the emergency department of the Hungarian Imre Hospital in Lips. The National Centre for Public Health has justified the decision by the fact that the staff conditions are not adequate for the operation of the department. With this decision, he made it impossible for the emergency department to operate and gave the governing role to lower-level, non-funded patient classifications. The decision brought great indignation to both workers and people in the area, which proves that the locals organized a protest of sympathy and emphasized their will. Pressure seems to have reached its destination, since the lips of the emergency ward will be restarted as of April 1. According to our information, the required personal conditions are still not guaranteed, it is likely that in-patient chess and redeployment will remedy the shortage of specialists, which means that the doctor working in the emergency care unit should also assist other departments in on-call time. We are all very happy about the re-opening of your lips' emergency care, but more and more voices are being heard that this is just the beginning, because besides the Veszprém Centre Hospital, the papal hospital is the priority in Veszprém County, whose lips may be the victim of a hospital, which means that they are forced to work in the institution with constant uncertainty. And I would also like to say a few words about the restructuring of the on-call system. Even though the new on-call system in three counties has been activated, most of the general practitioners still refuse to sign their contracts. From February in Hajdú-Bihar county and in March in Győr-Moson-Sopron and Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg counties, the ambulances organize the evening on-call care. According to OMSZ, only one third of the doctors signed the new contract, and in Szabolcs, according to the number of doctors in 2021, it does not reach 20 percent, and it is also less than 30 percent in Hajdú-Bihar County. The data also show that the general practitioners have not entered the new system in bulk since the government terminated the compulsory membership of the Hungarian Medical Chamber. The conclusion is therefore also apparent from the above: the sacrifice of health care workers is due to the fact that, in the midst of any serious shortage of professionals, irresponsible fighting with MOK, pressure from the new law and adverse conditions, they carry the system on their backs, even if they break, because it is in the best interests of their lives and patients. And they do so by not receiving the promised increase in wages from January, nor does it say whether they will receive it from July back. Safe patient care is appropriate for all Hungarians, so we are at the very last minute, so that instead of taking measures of force, the interests and comments of the profession, such as the characteristics of health care, are taken more into account in basic care, because it is in the common interest of all of us. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2023-04-03-204	Thank you very much, Congressman Péter Balassa. Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, applied for a post-meeting speech with the title of our city, Pécs.
u2023-04-03-205	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Indeed, in my speeches after the agenda, I usually talk about the affairs of my narrower country, Pécs, and I must now address one of the most serious issues in the city. We know exactly that Pécs is Hungary's first university city, founded in 1367 by Pécs, and this historical fact and the importance of the modern university cause Pécs' identity to be basically part of university city life, and Pécs is very proud to be one of the most important university cities in Hungary. This is not only because one of the most important and largest students is in the city of Pécs, and not only because the university is the centre of the cultural and scientific life of Pécs, but also because the university as an economic operator is inevitable not only in the city of Pécs, but also in the whole region. We can say that from a labour market, employment perspective, in the entire South-Transdanubian region, only the Paks Nuclear Power Plant can be compared with the University of Pécs, if you look at the number of people employed. If we look at the budget figures of the university, we can see that with its budget of over 90 billion, it is significantly ahead of the city of Pécs, where we know that it is possible to manage with a budget of some 54-55 billion per year, so the budget of the university is significantly higher than the budget of the city of Pécs County. There are nearly 8,000 employees at the University of Pécs, which also underlines that it is one of the most important universities in the country. We know precisely that in 2021 the outsourcing wave also reached the University of Pécs, and the largest regional university centres have now been put under political control. This is what happened in Pécs: the entire university has been placed under the control of a curatorium with its infrastructure, property assets, everything, where we can say that four out of the five are clearly pro-government commitments. Then we heard reasons for how important outsourcing is in order to increase efficiency and how the university will be able to function more effectively as a private university. Well, it turns out that this didn't happen, so that it didn't happen, that the university didn't become more efficient, either the procurements, or otherwise the university didn't get any closer to the players in economic life. It is clear that no substantial change has been made in terms of funding, and that the University of Pécs operates with virtually public money, so the Hungarian taxpayers' money must appear, and this is the only way that this huge and extremely important institution can operate. We can also see that the wage increase was not a necessary condition for outsourcing, converting into a private university status, nor was the promised wage developments realized. It has to be recognised that there has been a very significant wage increase in the teaching staff, i.e. teachers and researchers, while the wage increase for employees representing a significant majority of university staff has been lower than required. So here are the promises that have partly been made, the visible inflation is no longer taken into account, so it is no wonder that over the past six months, many workers have indicated that they consider their salary to be humiliatingly low. The local organization of the Higher Education Workers' Union has been indicating this problem to the university's management for a very long time, and it can be seen here that this outsourcing, this foundational transformation, has not brought any real change, since here the union has turned to the Chancellor, who has indicated that it cannot decide on this issue. The debate also developed with regard to the fact that the university has the opportunity to make substantial wage improvements. At that time, the trade union quite rightly launched a petition, which has already been signed by more than 3,000 people, so we can say that nearly half of the university workers signed this petition, in which they demand an immediate 25% increase in wages. It is considered to be good news, we know a day or two ago that a partial agreement has already been reached, so it can be seen that the union and, of course, the workers needed a brave stand to finally hear from the university leadership that immediate action is needed here. Well, we also want to say thank you for the brave standing of the workers and, of course, for the work of the union leaders, but we find it shameful that this is necessary for them to receive these decent wages and for the wage increases. It is clear that such a conflict, such a challenge, affects not only the functioning of the university, but also the city of Pécs, because we can say that most families are somehow involved in the operation of the university, most families have something to do with the operation of the university. I expect the university leadership to review this university outsourcing, as well as the government. It can be seen that nothing of the reasons has actually been realized, that there is no support for this outsourcing, and I believe that the city of Pécs and this university will be able to cooperate more effectively in the future if the university is brought back under the authority of the Hungarian people, it will be able to function as a state university again, and in this way it will also be possible to meet the expectations that the workers will receive decent wages for their honest work. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your patience. [[15.40]]
u2023-04-03-206	Thank you very much, Congressman László Keresztes. Tamás Herczeg, representative of Fidesz, applied for a post-meeting speech entitled "The Munkácsy Quarter" seven years ago.
u2023-04-03-207	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, If you look at the history of the programme "Modern Cities" for about seven years and look at not only the development process of Békéscsaba, but also of all settlements, you can see that you are right, Commissioner Alpár Gyopáros, who has said on several occasions that Békéscsaba is one of the most successful cities in terms of the programme "Modern Cities." This was partly due to the fact that, I believe, the aim was accurate, so the social and economic needs that marked the city and the surrounding areas were well defined by the city's leadership when the Prime Minister and the Mayor signed the contract for the programme of the modern cities in 2016 and praised the work of the peaceful Csaba designer, preparatory and construction. If we try to think about the areas in which the program focuses, we can group these big projects in various ways. One is, we can say, important for the accessibility or avoidance of the city. We know that the M44 is being built, and now the last two stages are being completed, so we will soon be able to travel two lanes between Békéscsaba and Budapest, and a very heavy load has come down from the city of Békéscsaba with the fürjes bypass. The next element is the preservation of employment and the improvement of employment data. And the third is the city's viability, increasing the city's attractiveness, if I'm gonna say it in summary, maybe that's how it's put it. This includes our Munkácsy Quarter program, because with another grouping we can say that these great developments have been made in connection with energy, tourism, cultural, economic recovery, sports and other goals. The Munkácsy Quarter is a diverse development project, we can also say that it is created by taking into account and enforcing green aspects, we have also taken into account a tourist approach, it can be seen as the last element of a large downtown rehabilitation project, and, of course, from a tourist perspective, it is important that the Munkácsy Quarter be built. Why it is important for us to think of Békéscsaba as the city of Munkácsy, and why we think of Munkácsy as being home to Békéscsaba, I think it may be understandable to say the thought that Munkácsy made in Paris. The city's view amazes me:. He talks about Békéscsaba Munkácsy. It's a long, long street, it's quite small, wide houses, all in order and in sequence, just like Rue Rivolin in Paris. In the middle, where the streets intersect, the two churches stare at each other. It's quiet all around. Ringing a bell in a merciless tone. So at the peak of his success he remembered the Munkácsy Mihály Békéscsaba in Paris, the home he came to when he was eight years old and where he lived, but wherever he lived in the world, he always came home to Békéscsaba. So the Munkácsy Quarter enriches the city with a number of programs, and I'm trying to collect them, and I'm going to go through with it. On the one hand, construction took place in the city. I'll just mention three bridges. Two bridges have already been completed, the third will soon be dismantled, and a new bridge will be established at the center of the city, which will serve the smooth and safe transport of cyclists and pedestrians. Our museum, the Munkácsy Museum, partly the building, we still lack some resources, but we were encouraged by the government to complete this part of the project with an increase. Or an exhibition rich in Békés county and Békéscsaba, which is rarely exciting, I think, perhaps all over Hungary. The Munkácsy Memorial House, which received Mihály Munkácsy on several occasions, has also been renewed, and there we have been enriched with an exhibition that we can recommend to all interested people who will come to Békéscsaba. There's a new puppet show coming up. So the puppet theatre is placed in a new location, the Ursinyi-Beliczay mansion, the rather neglected building is partly renovated, partly a new member of the building is made, and the new building, the new puppet theatre, will surely be completed by the day of the child. In this regard, we can say that perhaps the country's most modern puppet theatre will be established. I see it's been five minutes, but thank God, I could still talk in part about the memorial house, the Munkácsy quarter, the MVP developments. So perhaps this will also justify Békéscsaba's winner of the program "Modern Cities." Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-04-03-208	Thank you very much, Congressman Tamás Herczeg. Zsolt Nyitrai, representative of Fidesz, applied for a post-meeting speech with the title "The World Day of Autism"
u2023-04-03-209	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for the word and the opportunity that I have asked for because I would like to draw attention to the issue of autism in the context of my speech after the agenda. Yesterday, April 2nd, was the world day of autism. More than 100,000 people in our country are affected by autism. World Day draws attention primarily to recognition, understanding and acceptance. There is a continuous dialogue between the Government of Hungary and the National Association of Autists, the AOSZ and President Edit Kővári, and we know about each other's affairs, goals and opportunities, and we try to give each other all the support and help. Dear Parliament, Our main task now is to create a new national autism strategy, which is in the process of work, with the largest Hungarian interest representatives, organisations and experts leading the work, and the Government of Hungary helps and supports this great task. The last such strategy, a national strategy for autism, was born in 2008, so the progress of time and the change of the world justify creating a new strategy together. We will, of course, inform the public on the process of strategy-making transparently. Dear Parliament, We also had a consultation in the days, which was initiated by AOSZ to review the overall picture of Hungary in connection with the establishment of day-to-day institutions providing care to autistic persons. This meeting was hosted by the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister, and the event was attended by Mr. Károly Sita, President of the Association of Cities with County Rights, who is a liaison between the AOSZ and the mayors. I stress that the AOSS has already agreed on this topic in 40 cities. Dear Parliament, Overall, I can say that Hungary's Government bases its public work on dialogue, and in the area of people with disabilities, the principle of "nothing about us" is particularly important. Since 2010, budget support for disability representatives has tripled. Dear Parliament, I also asked for this opportunity because I wanted to draw attention to those living with autism in order to help them, to help them in everyday life, to help their communities who represent their interests. Allow me to thank you here, in front of the public of the Hungarian Parliament, for the service of the people and communities who deal with the issue of autism in everyday life. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-04-03-210	Thank you, Congressman Zsolt Nitrai. Representative of Mi Hazank, Mr.Előd Novák, also applied for a post- Agenda address with the title of the removal of the Monument of Liberty Square, Communist authoritarianism, which is also possible with the unilateral decision of the Hungarian government. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-04-03-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Each year, on 4 April, Hungarians celebrated the Soviet occupation of Hungary, which resulted in the rape of tens of thousands of Hungarian women, the removal of hundreds of thousands of our countrymen to the Málenki robot, and the crimes of Hungarian communists on the anniversary. The communist monument of Szabadság Square also casts a shadow on the building of the Hungarian Parliament, with the symbols of the autocracy which is in principle forbidden and the inscription of the liberating Soviet heroes. [[15.50]] Our country's relationship with Russia is also burdened by a worthy settlement of this matter. It was also attempted to be dismantled in 1956. In 2006, while we besieged TV under the leadership of György Budaházy, the Patriots crucified one of the symbols of authoritarianism. András Pongrácz, public freedom fighter Corvin, who worked with the flame cutters of Stalin's statue, continues to encourage us to settle the matter. We haven't pushed the case over the last year because of the war, of course, but we won't let it be swept under the rug, sooner or later it has to be resolved. There are no more graves, it's not as delicate a diplomatic matter as many people would think. As Mayor István Tarlós also initiated the removal of the monument in 2011, but the Hungarian government stopped him absurdly. Why? However, Zsolt Zétényi is a legal authority, member of the Council of the Hundreds, director of the Board of Trustees of the National Law Protection Foundation, and can be transferred to the cemetery or to the communist statue park by a unilateral decision of the Hungarian state, for example, this source of tension from which he wrote in detail. Finally, let me explain to those who demand the removal of the Soviet monument the saucy manifesto that was issued on 4 April 2004, including Gergely Pongráz and Mária Wittner. They are no longer among us today, so let the manifesto they have written speak for them. In the place of Szabadság tér and its surroundings in Budapest, the second one stood for 100 years. It was built by Joseph, which was also called the Pest Bastille. Lajos Batthyány, Hungary's first freely elected prime minister, was executed in this area, Lajos Kossuth, Mihály Táncsics, Dániel Zörányi, and many other Hungarian revolutionaries and freedom fighters were imprisoned or executed here. This square is named Liberty in their memory, even the surrounding streets bear the names of the Hungarian martyrs. In 1897, the ill-famous building complex was demolished and the current environment was developed. In 1920 a Trianon memorial group was set up in memory of the nation's greatest tragedy, the two-thirds loss. In 1928 the monument group was completed with the relic-and-country flag, whose pedestal was built from the county of Nagy-Hungary, the land of Petőfi and Kossuth's birthplace, as well as the sites of our great historical battles, Muhi's wilderness, Szele-patak, the battlefields of the 1848 War of Independence and the burial sites of the Hungarian heroes who died in the First World War, Galicia, Doberdo, brought land. Our people have established a national memorial site in Freedom Square. In 1945, the invading Soviet troops destroyed this group of monuments, or national monuments, and built their own obelisk in its place. 13 years after the change of regime, in connection with the reconstruction of the square, all good people rightly believed that everything would finally be in its place, the memorial of Soviet soldiers to the cemetery, and the Hungarian historical monuments back to the Szabadság tér, but that was not the case. In 2001, without asking the nation, the political leaders of Hungary decided to rebuild the original state of the Szabadság tér in the full glory of the Soviet heroic monument instead of restoring the original state of the Szabadság tér. On top of all this, on the monument the inscription "Glory to the Liberating Soviet Heroes" is decorated in the name of all Hungarians. To the glory of the Soviet Imperial Army that occupied and occupied our country for half a century, its soldiers raped our women, our daughters and hundreds of thousands of our compatriots on a málenki robot, the majority of whom died in inhumane conditions in the camps of the Soviet Union, and in 1956 when our people rebelled against the unbearable regime they dictated, our freedom struggle was brutally crushed. We feel that the parliamentary parties have thus given the final blow to the whole change of regime, which was based on the fact that we said that the event, which has been referred to as the Soviet liberation since 45, was actually an occupation. Budapest, 4 April 2004 There are so many signatory organizations besides Gergely Pongráz and Mária Wittner that I have no time to list. I'm sorry that after decades, the government doesn't want to take any action, even though it could answer right now. But we will not allow this matter to be swept under the carpet, and I will close my speech with a 1956 password. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We don't stop halfway! [[Applause from the benches of our country.]]
u2023-04-03-212	Thank you very much, Congressman President Novak. After the agenda, Mr Dávid Dócs, representative of Mi Hazank, spoke with the title of "Actual Public Affairs."
u2023-04-03-213	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much for the floor. The Hungarian Movement has now become the most popular party among young people. For weeks, experts, analysts have tried to explain the reason for this, even though the reasons are very simple. As opposed to the parties of the last 30 years, we are the only political alternative for them, who have heard the voice of young people and brought it into Parliament. Our youth organization, Mi Hazank Ifjai, has launched a national campaign, in which we have been collecting for weeks the questions that are important to Hungarian youth, which Hungarian young people would ask politicians who are so often unavailable to them. It's a waste of family support benefits if they're no longer available. Let us conclude: we are facing an unprecedented demographic disaster; the future of our country is in danger, as every second youth imagines his future abroad. This data, if one does not believe the statistics, is enough to move between them and experience it. They do not see a vision at home, nor an intention from the government to remedy their most important problems. What are these problems? I will interpret the questions of young people to you, allow me now to be your casual mouthpiece. How should we plan an independent life and a family when rents in the capital are slowly being paid not only as students but also as beginners? asks you the question of a number of young people. Would you live under conditions, even for a day, in which we need to live in the colleges left for us from socialist times? The other one's coming out. However, how could a situation arise that, while we as Hungarian students are slowly unable to use the Erasmus programme, thus depriveing us of the foreign experience that we could then use and exploit at home, the government spends HUF 40 billion a year in the framework of the Stipendium Hungaricum programme to provide students from abroad. As a big family, how should we get a driver's license when acquiring it with more than one brother can cost a family millions? Not to mention, unfortunately, the examiners often allow only students and students to pass in exchange for an envelope. But I don't think that surprises you, because that's how the system works. Are you planning to put in place measures to consolidate order in schools and to eliminate violence and abuse in relation to the school guard? Why aren't schools preparing us for real life? And I don't mean by any chance that they're going to put in more hours, because we're already loaded, but they're simply skipping the unnecessary material out of the National Basics. Many people ask these questions, and I could even mention the quality of language education, since many mention it, but what can we expect if they are looking for English teachers with a degree due to a huge shortage of teachers? And speaking of teacher shortages, 16,000 teachers are missing from public education. I would like to illustrate this with a case that has come to us based on our information from the Corvin Mátyás High School in Budapest, and is a very big problem, since the compulsory vaccination has already begun instead of the witch hunt, the persecution of teachers has begun. That's why anyone who wouldn't give in to blackmail was already removed from the teaching field. However, this process has now peaked when more people retired, and for this year's graduation period there has been such a disastrous situation that there will not be enough teachers to prepare graduates for one of the most important exams of their lives. Young people regularly appreciate your work, with mass emigration, unfortunately. 13 years wasn't enough to give the new generation a vision. You cannot be trusted by the young people, it is clear today, but the Hungarian Movement will continue to listen to them, it will continue to speak for them, and we will bring their voice to Parliament in the future, because the future cannot be stopped. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause from the benches of our country.]]
u2023-04-03-214	Thank you very much, Congressman Dócs. After the agenda, MEP Zoltán Varga, representative of DK, asked for a post- Agenda address:. The director of TIVIZIG was fired because he was willing to write a professional opinion on the dangers of the CATL battery plant. It's a dictatorship! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman. [[16.00]]
u2023-04-03-215	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Yes, let's talk a little bit about dictatorship, talk about the world that Orbán, Fidesz and KDNP have built here in the Carpathian Basin in the last decade. Unlike many people's opinions, dictatorship does not begin there if anyone who disagrees has a separate opinion about power, their kidneys are crushed or their nails torn off, just as neither the Hitler mustache does the dictator. Because it is a dictatorship, ma'am and gentlemen, if teachers are threatened and dismissed simply because they dare to raise their heads if they dare to protest against the destruction of education. And it is also dictatorship to try to destroy the largest medical professional organization in two days because of the perceived personal injury of a despot in his power, which was created by authority by administrative means, by means of the law submitted to Parliament by an exceptional procedure during the night, apparently unsuccessful. Indeed, it is a massive dictatorship if the country is the largest investment of all time, a gigantic chemical plant, a battery factory that absorbs all the water in the surrounding region, pollutes its air, destroys its calmness, revives its future to a city, not only without consulting local residents, but specifically despite their protests, they are still building it. In connection with the Debrecen battery factory, as if it weren't enough, as if in a mad way the, the, even more so, the, the, is not a problem, we will also build it along the logic of Orbán to Bicsk with the current talmi and temporary power to keep the press pressed and sprinkle the newer and newer seeds of cunning fear. They already decide in Carmelita when what, usually conflicting data can be published in almost every parameter of the factory. We see them lying along the way, in contrast to the manufacturing technology that is already known worldwide, the water consumption or energy input data is becoming very small, almost ridiculously low, and the water demand of an average household is slowly low. Thus, according to the known principle of production, which is already known to everyone, a fraction of the real water demand is not only the government narrative, but also the least professional, mostly political, governmental and municipally modified licensing documents. As it may be, anonymous professors in Debrecen, as it has now been revealed, otherwise loyal people of Fidesz may issue such, perhaps professional, actually completely unscientific statements about the positive environmental effects of the Debrecen battery factory. In addition, the image of the most terrible dictatorship is reappeared when the director of TIVIZIG is fired and fired by the Minister of Police without any particular justification, just because, as a administrative authority, one of the few scientists appearing in the history of the battery factory finally has real numbers and a well-founded opinion and an existing and threatening vision of the building battery factory because they write down in their professional paper. Yes, we are talking about Dániel Kincses, because he is the only Dániel Kincses, who has been bestially retaliated for his written opinion by the dictatorship of Orbán, and he is the only one whose sin is that he dared to write down that Debrecen will be the victim of any politically controlled professional procedure without a professional basis, and that Debrecen will have to transform its entire urban drinking water, sewage and precipitation network conceptually due to the newly emerging industrial water requirements, because the system will no longer be able to withstand the pressure caused by the battery plant in a few years' time. Dear House, What happened was the firing of the director of TIVIZIG, the most horrific dictatorship in Orbán. And what we know very well from history is that dictatorships will all fail; yours, Orbán's, will also fail, there will be only one shameful stain on the pages of history in the history of Hungary in just a few years. Keep that in mind. Thank you for listening.
u2023-04-03-216	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Varga. Congresswoman Judit Ráczné Földi, a representative of DK, applied for a post-meeting speech:. What does the government do to have enough general practitioners in Székesfehérvár? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2023-04-03-217	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Not only nationally, but also in Székesfehérvár, there is serious concern as to how long they will have a family doctor. Unfortunately, our GPs are getting older, and their supplies are not visible. On average, only one graduate doctor chooses the GP every year. It is quite clear that the Orbán government has condemned this profession to extinction in recent years. In Székesfehérvár there are 58 GP districts, of which three children's districts are permanently unfilled. The proportion of doctors over the age of 60 is more than 50 percent; in 50 years there are fewer than ten general practitioners. If the government does not make the general medical profession more attractive, if it does not create clear professional and financial conditions, then in Székesfehérvár only half of the districts will become a general practitioner in ten years. This puts tens of thousands of Székesfehérvári in a difficult situation. The patient's right to healing is being damaged, and people's general health is getting worse. As in other areas of health, one of the biggest problems with basic care is that it is not predictable that legislation will be adopted quickly without any meaningful consultation. The role of GPs is of great importance, since in most cases patients are accompanied from diagnosis to healing. They keep seeing the conditions of the sick, their families. They usually know their patients' health best, often going back decades. Doctors and employees working in primary care are all and soul of the health care system. Their role is not only traditionally healing. The patient expects his or her home doctor to solve his/her physical, mental, and social problems as far as possible, or to indicate the route on which this can be started. The majority of GPs are entrepreneurs, they tax as much as any other entrepreneur, while their practice is subject to legislation. They are not spared by the inflationary effects in their publications. However, general practitioners as entrepreneurs did not receive compensation for energy costs, the vast majority of practices operate in municipal offices, but also in difficulty local authorities cannot provide support for increased overhead. There is no other way in Székesfehérvár. While we see that six to ten times the increase in district heat charges is slowly putting the practices in a close-up situation, the NEAK has been providing the clinics with the same amount of support since 2018. On a monthly level, you will receive HUF 520,000 for your energy costs and total expenditure. The MOK requested it, but Dr. Péter Takács, State Secretary of Health rejected the proposal to increase the premium by not covering it in the budget, and there is no cover for it. Due to the new funding introduced from 1 January 2023 despite the objection of the general medical profession, some practices receive up to hundreds of thousands of forints less monthly support. This further strengthens the uncertainty of the area, making it worse for young doctors to choose home medicine. Clearly, the government does nothing for the health of the Székesfehérvár people, it is still more important to spend taxpayers' forints on propaganda and incitement than to provide real help. You've taken away their right to recovery from people in addition to living, and it's not a mistake, it's a huge sin. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Zoltán Varga applauds.]]
u2023-04-03-218	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Judit Ráczné Earth. After the agenda, Mr Mihály Witzmann, representative of Fidesz, applied for a post- agenda speech: . Our joint successes in the light of the past ten years, or an account of the results of the election district of Somogy 04.
u2023-04-03-219	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In short, South Balaton and Exterior Somogy could be described as an extremely rich geographical, historical and cultural area known as the 4th constituency of Somogy County. [[16.10]] By the way, I have been given the opportunity to serve the people of the region as the electoral district president of the major government party, and then, a year later, as a Member of Parliament, the Somogyi voted for me as a member of Parliament. Over the past ten years, challenges on a historical scale have made life difficult for all of us, which we Somogyians have obviously felt on our own. In view of all this, the results achieved by our country and my narrower country, Somogy County, over the last decade are particularly appreciated. In my speech, I would like to give this House a brief snapshot of the success of the 82 000 community, which I represent, comprising 5 cities and 66 municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen, From a city structure point of view, the Somogy 4th constituency is a small village and rural area. For this reason, our main objective in development is to make living in the countryside not a challenge, but an opportunity. Together with those living there, we have achieved significant results over a few years. During the somewhat more than two parliamentary cycles left behind, we received an unprecedented amount of government support of more than HUF 330 billion, which enabled the development of state, local government, church and civil society organisations. We will get an even better picture if we add to this amount the aid received by regional businesses. In terms of infrastructure investments, I am pleased to say that, for example, we have the opportunity to build or renovate some 267 kilometres from more than HUF 150 billion in roads. In addition to the roads, there were also a great number of bicycle roads, which serve both professional and tourist purposes. We have also made a lot of progress in the area's waste water network, its drainage of precipitation water and in improving the quality of drinking water. For projects of this kind, we managed to obtain a total government grant of HUF 26 billion. However, we still have our goals, our duties with abundance. The continuation of road renovations and further expansion of the waste water network are among our most important objectives. Just like the construction of the swimming pool planned for Siófok; in the case of the latter project, the supportive government decision was taken months ago and the planning is in progress. In addition, the city management of Siófok is expected to make the necessary changes to the soil for the closure of the documentation this year. I am also pleased to report that in recent years we have had the opportunity to build 15 new nurserys and renovate dozens of kindergartens in the Somogy 4th constituency. And if it is education and education, we must also not forget the school developments that will enable our schools to modernise, expand, or even new gymnasiums and sports fields to enrich our region. But also in terms of employment, Somogya has made progress. In order to further boost the economy, 11 industrial park projects have received billions of HUF funding in recent years. Unfortunately, it should also be noted in parentheses that the municipality has made a decision in Siófok alone that it would rather return the 575 million grant it received and not want to implement the project. And if it is already Balaton and tourism, I am also happy to report that, thanks to the unprecedented amount of government subsidies, the previously broken-down Balaton beaches and new attractions and services have been created in our region. I would also like to mention the former Taszar airport, the long-awaited, legitimate demand of the Somogyi. We look forward with great hope that the public electronic bidding bidder announced by the State will come up with a development plan that will open up new horizons not only for the county but also for the entire South-Transdanubian region. Finally, I am pleased to say that despite the challenging economic situation, improvements are still taking place in the region. Among the most important are the complete renovation of the Sió lock or the construction of the last Balaton section of the R67 Highway connecting Kaposvár and Balaton. To sum up, therefore, it can be said that in effective cooperation with the villages and cities of the region, conscious territorial development is taking place in the Somogy 4th constituency, with visible results. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank, among the walls of this House, the mayors, municipalities, civil society organisations, churches, businesses and, of course, those living in the region. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] cooperation, cooperation, assistance in the identification and implementation of common objectives so far and in the future. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Laszlo Tasó applauds.]]
u2023-04-03-220	Thank you very much, Congressman Mihály Witzmann. This brings us to the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next Spring Session is expected to take place on 11 April 2023. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed. Take it easy, have a good day.
