u2023-04-11-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 12th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to everyone who's been monitoring our work. Dear House, Antal Csárdi, Deputy Head of the LMP Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-04-11-1	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Do you know what the most unpleasant party is? Well, the one where we can only be there because we live in the apartment where they throw the party. Well, installing battery companies in Hungary is just such a party, if you can say so. But what is it about? They are building Hungary full of battery factories, and then, in order to have any energy at all for their operation, they are filling East Hungary with gas plants, so the Chinese battery factories will receive energy from Russian gas, which then assemble batteries for German car manufacturers, mostly with installed foreign workers. Then these global companies will take the profits out of the country nicely, every last penny. And what will we give you in return? The Hungarian government gives us our water supply, our air cleanliness, our valuable land. Then the party ends, and as usual at the end of the party, guests usually leave their trash there, because according to the existing EU rules, waste generated during production, worn-out batteries will have to be handled by the manufacturing company. This means that outdated batteries must be handled in Hungary. Dear House, The only thing fair about a house party like this is to ask the host in advance, and they want a party like this in their home, in their country. I have a very strong question, my honourable members of the Government, and it sounds like why you are such cowards. Why do you cowards ask the Hungarian people about wanting this battery installation madness? Because, after all, what the hosts want is what the God-given people want. We can all remember the words of Viktor Orbán, who said that we are not communists to govern against the will of the people. This got me thinking a little bit, because there are two things that can come from this: the first thing that comes out is that you are communists, because you are governed against the will of the people. Either there is another version that they do not allow Hungarian people to decide whether they want to be a battery ring or not, because you know exactly the answer, and that is the answer you are afraid of. It is quite clear that all measurements show that Hungarian people do not want to turn Hungary into a battery ring. You know perfectly well that you are in a minority on this issue. They are fleeing the debate because they do not allow the referendum, because you know precisely that they represent not Hungarian people, but large foreign companies. You know you're wrong, you know you're in a minority, so you don't want to arrest the debate, you want to suppress it. They pretend the case doesn't exist, hundreds and thousands of people protest from Debrecen to Győr. In fact, what's happening is that during the night, they wanted to sell our natural values, our future to the car companies, in the silence, but we caught you, and now all of a sudden they can't do anything about it. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Do you know what the most tragic part is? That this debate is about nothing less than protecting our future, or voluntarily and singing our country into a colonial line. And do you know, my fellow members of the government, what is the most tragic of all? That you guys are constantly assisting. You'll never be able to wash that off. Thank you very much.
u2023-04-11-2	I give the floor to the Secretary of State Tamás Menczer.
u2023-04-11-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, You've been trying to illuminate or reveal to us what you think you're thinking, and I have to say, if you've set this example, then allow me to take over this, too, so that you're party killers in every way and always. And the situation is more serious than a house party, because this is about our country, our country, and you are unfortunately acting against the country and the country all the time. You asked me the question immediately about the batteries, only if you have brought such sentences and pictures here, what the God-given people want, honourable Member, the people have answered this question. Let me draw your attention to the fact that, a year ago, there was a parliamentary election, where Fidesz-KDNP won four times in a row by a two-thirds majority. So the people, the people, have answered your question about what they want. They agree with the ideas and resolutions they hear from the government and the ruling parties and reject what they hear from you. So there is an answer to your question, honourable Member. We are fighting this debate on batteries from week to week. I'm trying to get some international examples here, and I'd like to point out one right now. The President of the Slovak Automotive Association said that it would be fatal for your country to miss the opportunity to have its own battery factory, said our Slovak friends. And the news from Bratislava is that Slovakia is going to build a battery factory, honourable Member. [[13.10]] This will be a very large investment of hundreds of millions of euros. And by the way, the Germans came into contact with the Slovaks, saying that the Germans are even faster to judge and process, to authorize than the Slovaks. I was just trying to shed light on what I referred to last week, and what we talked about here in Parliament last week, namely that the whole world wants battery factories, but not the Hungarian left. You might want to think about that. But that is true, of course, and we always say that no investment can be made in Hungary unless the investor complies with the strictest safety and environmental standards. And this is the case in all cases, in the case of a battery plant and in the case of all other investments. And you lie from week to week here, Your Honour. I would like to highlight one of what you have said. You said that used batteries should be returned to where they were manufactured and that something should be done about them. That's a lie, I'd like to draw your attention. Used batteries shall be treated where they are placed on the market. I'd like you to look into the international rules. Now, honourable Member, that is the case. Now, what we have discussed many times, that Germany is planning to build 14 battery factories in addition to the existing ones, in the United States, 40 such factories are being built, and in Germany, your colleagues, the left-wing green politicians, are standing up to applaud the construction of CATL, the Chinese factory and the construction of the battery plant there, well, I'm bringing this here quietly and in parentheses. As well as the fact that by 2030 there will be a battery plant in half of the EU Member States and almost all EU countries will be involved in the supply chain. But one more thought, if I may, at the last minute, honourable Member. What does the God-given people want? Asked the question. Let me bring you another subject: I think that the Hungarian people want peace. And it has been several days since you and the entire left rejected it, you have not supported the pro-peace resolution, the first sentence of which is this, and it has been supported by the government and the governing parties, and we have accepted it:. We express our commitment to peace. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, What is the problem with that, honourable Member? There are also points in the declaration that we condemn Russian aggression, we draw attention to the harmful effects of sanctions, we talk about the greatest humanitarian action in Hungary's history, we talk about the suffering of Hungarians in Transcarpathia, and we also talk about inviting all Hungarian and international actors to take action against escalation for peace. What's wrong with that, honourable Member? Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-11-4	Now, Sándor Berki, representative of the Dialogue. Here you go.
u2023-04-11-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, Dear House, Even though there is an energy crisis and climate crisis, energy consumption is not decreasing, it is increasing. 80 percent of the Hungarian housing stock is energyless, while new industries with gigantic energy consumption are installed in Hungary, and you believe that the solution is to build new gas plants with Russian gas. The Russian gas turned out to be neither reliable nor cheap, and Hungary is the most expensive of all European countries. It must have been hard to get a contract like this, but it worked. What does it say about the new gas plants? When you came to power in 2010, in the government programme, you promised that 10 percent of the housing stock will be updated energyally each year. This could have been done most easily in the panel buildings: it is a block of flats built with the same technology, where it can be insulated quickly and individually cheaply. In addition, a previous model experiment has shown that more than 50 percent reduction in energy consumption can be achieved; not only we say it, but also the pro-government Századvég. This could save one and a half times the power generation of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, much cheaper than the construction of a new power plant, creating more jobs, relying more on the Hungarian economy. What have you done instead? Even the well-functioning panel programme inherited from previous governments has been cut off. In Hungary, the panels account for 17 percent of the housing stock. In Budapest, this ratio is 29 percent. In the cities of the former heavy-duty centers, it can be around 40 percent. But here in Salgótarján, it's more than 50 percent. In Hungary, a program for the rehabilitation of panel apartments was launched first in 2001 and then in 2008. The latter was suspended by your government in 2011 on the basis of the crisis. The continuation was promised first in 2013 and then in 2018, of course always before the elections. But as we can see, it didn't turn out to be anything. Today, the majority of the panel housing population is still energyally uncontaminated, uninsulated, and an average Hungarian household consumes a half as much energy as an Austrian household. One in three Hungarians lives in energy poverty, and Hungary's greenhouse gas emissions increase year after year. There's no acceptable explanation for that. If they had gone through the panel program instead of your completely pointless standion program, the heating bill for those in the panel could have been halved. Can you explain to the voters why it was more important to spend this money on heated stadium lawn? If they had completed the panel program, Hungary would today have much less to fear from the energy crisis. As green policy says, the cleanest energy is what we do not use, and energy efficiency is the cheapest energy source. Since the establishment of the Dialogue-Greens, it has called for the energy efficiency modernisation of panel dwellings. We have made a proposal on how to solve the energy security of the people in the panel with a realistic timetable, decisively with EU support. It is in the clear interest of the whole country to implement this proposal. But we need you to do the same. You can do what you've done so far, you can stall, like you've done for 13 years, or you can solve the energy problem of a million and a half. [[13.20]] It's an opportunity that won't come back. They can choose between foreign and Hungarian interests. Believe me, the solution to this crisis is not the Russian gas, but the thermal insulation of homes, energy saving and renewable energy. Try to see what it's like to listen to your common sense. Start the national energy efficiency modernisation of homes and start with panel apartments. There is no better investment for Hungary today. Thank you. [[Applause in the lines of Dialogue and MSZP.]]
u2023-04-11-6	I give the floor to Mrs Zsófia Koncz, State Secretary. Here you go. [[The name of Zsolt Kovács appears on the display board.]] Excuse me, please turn Zsófia Koncz on instead of Zsolt Kovács. [[Dr. Zsófia Koncz has a portable microphone in front of him.]] Here you go.
u2023-04-11-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to begin by saying that it is important to put things in order on the issues that you are concerned, such as energy efficiency, energy supply and domestic energy production. Allow me, Mr President, to criticise immediately at the outset the fact that, although nuclear energy plays a key role in terms of energy supply in Hungary. Your group is constantly speaking against nuclear energy and is opposed to Paks enlargement, while the Member is talking about energy efficiency, energy supply and energy modernisation. I believe that if we took the proposals that you are making seriously, then there would be a clear lack of energy in Hungary, and the reduction in the rent that we have maintained since 2013 and in which we can support Hungarian families with outstanding amounts in the European Union, we cannot maintain it. These are very important things. When you say something, there are consequences. I think it is extremely important to think about what would happen, for example, without nuclear energy. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the Hungarian Government has already carried out a number of programmes on the energy modernisation of dwellings. In the framework of the "Home Gay" programme, support of more than HUF 70 billion between 2010 and 2020 supported the energy efficiency investments of 300 thousand families. In addition, 200 000 families have been supported in the last year and a half under the support of home renovation, and there is also a programme to support the development of residential solar systems and the modernisation of heating. It should also be said that more than 50 percent of the Hungarians who made use of this option have implemented energy upgrades in the framework of home renovation support. And if we continue to deal with energy security issues, and we are currently in a war situation, and here within the walls of Parliament we ask and encourage left-wing representatives to take Hungarian interests as a priority in all respects; the Hungarian people's position is clearly that we want peace. The current war situation is very, very negative in terms of energy, and the rise in energy prices, inflation and high food prices are all the consequences in which we are looking for the allies, and I think that we would also like to encourage the Group of Dialogue to take a little more action in the future. If I mention some examples of what the current energy situation has caused, this is what we see: gas prices are twice higher than in the United States and electricity is three times higher than in China. That's practically the situation we're in right now. Energy consumption has been raised here as a question, and it has been said, in practice, that gas consumption has not decreased, but has increased. This is not true, as gas consumption in Hungary has virtually decreased by 17 percent. In the European Union, it has been decided to reduce energy consumption by 15% over the winter period, but I would like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that not all Member States have been able to achieve this commitment in this respect. We Hungarians have done this, however, we do not think it is a good idea that this has been extended for a whole year, because this means that those who could not achieve this objective not only in the winter period but also in the summer period have set the goal of reducing gas consumption. We consider this to be very dangerous because we believe that this can only be achieved through industrial gas consumption, and we believe that this is another stealthy withdrawal, since the definition of the energy mix is clearly part of national competence. Congressman, we are also constantly fighting for Hungarian interests on the international stage. There's obviously a lot of pressure here. It is necessary to be a very, very brave Member so that when there is so much pressure, we can speak in favour of Hungarian interests. I would like to ask for the help and support of the Dialogue faction in order not to take the easy way out of such matters and not to argue in favour of decisions that are not good for the Hungarian people, the Hungarian families, but in favour of decisions that are clearly in the interests of Hungary. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-11-8	I now give the floor to Congressman László Toroczkai, leader of the Group of Mi Hazank. Here you go.
u2023-04-11-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, At the plenary session of the Council of Europe, I was confronted with a report that, at the time of the Covid closures, there were two countries in Europe that wanted to develop an application, an application called a contact research application, which would have been managed practically with a centralised database so that all citizens could have been observed. There were two such countries in Europe at the time, Hungary and France. Fortunately, this application has not been widely introduced in Hungary, but it shows very well what the government intends to do and how the government contributes to citizens' freedoms. What I would like to talk about now is the government's intention to do so and to do so, as the Deputy State Secretary for Finance at the Ministry of Finance said earlier that the government strategy is part of the total reduction in cash use. If the government has such intentions, if there is such a government strategy, then it would be very important to share it with citizens. The strong position of the Hungarian Movement, as in the case of the Covid closures, we have protested for any such interference in the privacy of citizens, for the purpose of observing citizens, we will also protest and protest against any government strategy and government intention to curb cash flow and use. Cash use is important, however, in a country such as Hungary, where since the 1990s Fidesz and Balliberal governments have jointly established a mafia network known for the history of the enforcement mafia, which, of course, is only the tip of the iceberg in Hungary, in which not only executives, not only not only notaries, but politicians and even government members have participated, in a country where this smearing mafia regularly, illegally, even misplaced debts by taking or taking family allowances from families to this day, do not even respect the 33 percent limit, and when citizens go to the bank, they spread their hands and say that in Hungary a notary or an enforcer can do anything. In this country, in the last thirty years, the Hungarians and Hungarian citizens have survived in many cases by using cash to tell the truth, so they have been able to fight even against the mafia that is intertwined with governments. Cash use in this country is a right of freedom, and we think it is constitutional law. [[13.30]] If there is such a government intention, as the Deputy State Secretary for Finance Policy of the Ministry of Finance said earlier in a presentation, then we would like to predict that the Mi Hazank Movement is the strongest protesting against this, and we will fight to have constitutional right to use cash in Hungary, the same constitutional right to freedom as many other freedoms in this country. And we also know that not only the Hungarian Government and not only the Deputy State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance have spoken about such government ideas before, but also at international level, as well as at the lectures of the World Economic Forum, the introduction of digital money and the complete elimination of cash use. This is therefore a global intention, part of a global policy, it seems that, as in most cases, global large companies are supported either by the government or by the government in the form of taxation or aid, it seems that the government is kind or at least pleased with this intention, which is regularly formulated by global moneymen, either in the lectures of the World Economic Forum. We would therefore like a concrete answer, which is why I gave a specific title to my speech today. We would like a concrete response from the government that this is really a government strategy, or that it has been misconstrued by the Deputy State Secretary for Finance Policy of the Ministry of Finance. If there is such an intention that if the Deputy Secretary of State refers to what the State says is expensive, he said that the cash use is HUF 450 billion/year, then we would be very happy to help you find up to HUF 450 billion in the Hungarian budget, although we think that this number is not real, it is precisely to cover up some other purpose, but we are very happy to help you find up to HUF 450 billion in the Hungarian budget so that Hungarians' freedoms will not be damaged. So cash use is, in our opinion, constitutional law and freedom. Thank you very much and I look forward to a concrete answer. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-04-11-10	In response, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, shall have the floor.
u2023-04-11-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, They may have misunderstood the words of the Deputy Secretary of State, because he certainly did not say that there is a government intention or will that, by reducing cash, the government is trying to facilitate the activities of the executive mob. However, you, too, must experience that if you travel to other countries, you can find a number of countries where you can almost no longer pay with cash, but with a card or mobile phone, there is a country, a large enough country, for example China, where you can usually only pay for services by using mobile phones. Yes, that is what digital development means, and with digital development Hungary must also move forward, Hungary, the Hungarian government, must also move forward. The essence of this is that it is indeed a goal and intention to reduce cash flows, because, I think, you do not deny or contradict that most of the abuse is done in cash, because the transfer from bank account to bank account is already marked, it can be followed, while the amounts recorded in cash can move freely between people or businesses and legal persons. This is why, in recent years, we have tried to install several ATMs that are appropriate for the general public, namely the 21st century. to ensure the possibility of European quality services of the 100th century. The fact is, however, that each person decides for himself how he wants to pay, in this respect we do not want to limit him to his constitutional law or any other right. If a person chooses to pay in cash, wants to receive his pension in cash or, where appropriate, to receive his salary, this cannot, of course, be limited. I think that with digital development Hungary must also take action, and all conditions must be created in order for the country's population to be either the employee or the entrepreneur, or the pensioner or even the social benefit to be able to choose and use the right method of payment. I believe that the aim, the objective, is to reduce the cash stock in order to reduce the abuses I have said, is that, in any case, the government's objective cannot be challenged. I'm asking you to judge the government's intentions based on what I've just said here. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-11-12	He also applied for a speech before the agenda on behalf of Daniel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik. I give the floor to the congressman.
u2023-04-11-13	Mr President, Dear House, At the beginning of the year, a person who examined the order of food prices in the world could face a surprising graphic. The most expensive food in Zimbabwe, by 321 percent, followed by Lebanon, Venezuela, Turkey, Argentina, Iran, Sri Lanka, then Rwanda and Suriname, Hungary was unfortunately on the 10th place of this list, with a 44 percent increase in food. This was a shocking series of data that came up in the previous festive season, and it became news in the first days of the year. The problem is that the EU's food price increase has been repeatedly exceeded by domestic data since then, and I do not want to hide behind the Matolcsy justification or cover it with what is about the low productivity of the Hungarian food industry, it is particularly true, but this is not the reason for the explosion of Hungarian food prices in itself, because we see that the price cap system has increased the price of Hungarian food prices in an amazing way. We understand and accept that they have tried to freeze certain processes in terms of six or seven types of goods, but what we see is that they have made a fatal, catastrophic mistake, because large multinational companies in their distribution systems have determined the price of 6 to 7 thousand kinds of food, and without control, they have been able to easily integrate their perceived or real losses into the price of these 6 to 7 thousand products, and the fact is that because there was no control, they have built in much more than they could lose on the other side, thus the explosion of Hungarian food prices has become unstoppable. And interestingly, I stress: interestingly, when the Hungarian Competition Authority correctly started to examine the pricing of dairy products, it began to examine the pricing of different product groups, these types of goods suddenly began to become cheaper, the multi-company actions were worth each other, the brochures were scattered into the mailboxes one after the other, there were 30-40 percent price falls in the case of certain products. Who will give back to Hungarian consumers the unwarranted amount of money that has been abstracted over several months, so that they could shoot food prices completely loosely into the sky? Five years ago, we put the solution on the table by proposing an online price monitoring database, the point of which would have been to make it visible with a color code, to make it visible that there were real market developments behind food price increases, or it was purely market speculation. Digitalised age has little advantage, but it is certain that all transactions and these market processes can be traced, it would have been found that these companies would have abused the trust of Hungarian customers or allowed, say, a tax reduction to go through the system. And if they had taken our advice five years ago, VAT on basic foods could have been reduced to zero percent, because there would have been a control mechanism, we would have been able to check that VAT reductions would have been reduced. We expect you to do it well once you've taken our advice, but you can't avoid putting out the price caps until the end of time. It is therefore necessary to monitor the processes very correctly by means of consumer protection, but for most Hungarian families a national food support programme is needed, where we do not want to deliver the garbage of foreign companies to Hungarian families, but rather the quality food that is typically produced in Hungary. And I would warn us not to think here only under the poverty threshold of the Hungarian KSH, it is very, very important that a couple of two-year-old teachers who raise children do not count among the poor, but we see that, say, with the VAT on child-raising articles, they sometimes pay more into the state register than they receive in the form of family allowances, and they still pay the extra price for the weak forint, and they still pay the cost of the price caps, the brutal food prices. [[13.40]] We are therefore saying that, even in view of the poverty threshold in the European Union, all the Hungarian families concerned can claim the allowance granted by the national food support programme, which is not specifically cash, I would like to emphasise and undertake this conflict. We do not want any family to use this support to gamble; we do not want it to end up in the one - armed robber or to be used for certain recreational products or tobacco products. We want these amounts to be used in the interests of Hungarian families and typically in the interests of the foster children. We see that there is a source of this in the budget, that the government has made a lot of extra tax revenue in the crisis. The question is clear: is the government willing to devote part of this extra profit to a national food support programme? I look forward to a meaningful answer with respect. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2023-04-11-14	Mr. Sándor Farkas has the floor.
u2023-04-11-15	Dear Congressman, We have to say that until there are more and more sanctions, we will also have sanctioned inflation here, and we will be able to meet it every day in stores in constantly increasing prices. In the context of the war in our neighbourhood, the disruptions in international supply chains and the inflation situation caused by misguided, irresponsible sanctions in Brussels, the government is striving to protect people and reduce the effects of these factors. The government also introduced and extended the price stop for certain basic foods in order to protect the Hungarian population from inflation caused by prolonged war and penalties. The Government is aware that price fixing alone is not sufficient and that products at fixed prices must also be available. I would like to say to you here that not only in the last year, during the war period, if I can put it this way, but throughout the previous Covid epidemic, there was a sufficient quality and quantity of safe Hungarian food on the shelves of shops. To this end, the distribution obligation for retailers has been established in recent years. The retention of this obligation, together with other price-stop requirements, will be monitored by the consumer protection authority in the same way as you have acknowledged in your speech. The food price stop is currently in place until the end of April. The government is expected to make its decision on the future of the measure in the middle of the month, in which it will act with full caution, on the basis of the market situation and taking into account the interests of all market participants. Honourable Congressman, Indeed, what you have raised and referred to in the line of thought is that the prices of basic foods, which we have reduced, have been linked, if I may put it this way, I think that you are then absolutely right about the trading companies, the trading companies for other products, 6,000 to 7000 products, or perhaps more products that have practically compensated for their losses in relation to the products at the price set by the government. That's why these tests are still going on, even more today. In itself, the penalty should create few situations, a situation where punishment does not always bring the best conditions, but rather a situation in which the value of these goods will clearly decrease. I would like to note that I believe that food prices will continue to decline and fall, but I do not think that these prices will go back to the price levels before Covid in 2019-20. They can't go back just because the price of increased inputs, increased energy sources won't go back to that level, and not only the raw materials producers, but also the processors clearly live off these energies, if you can say so, using these energies, using these inputs. Another example: the price of packaging material has increased to such an extent that they are largely from imports from Italy and other Western Europe, which alone increases the price of a food. We must strive to ensure that, in the context of improvements in the food industry, investments in the food industry and manufacturing industry that are still in place and will start today, we have not only the raw material but also the processed food with as much added value as possible, I could say that we will make it as much cheaper as possible. That is why other additional sources, such additional operations as the resurrection of a packaging industry, are necessary, so that we are not dependent on what was happening during the Covid epidemic, I will mention only one example when we obtained the cap of the milk box from Italian imports, and Italian imports simply were not available. We almost couldn't deliver enough milk in these few days. We cannot remain in such a vulnerable situation, so it is important that we monitor the Hungarian food industry, manufacturing industry and, not least, the Hungarian food retail and retail trade in the same way; we must also check that such a case does not occur again. I ask the congressman to accept my reply. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-04-11-16	Next up is Bertalan Tóth, head of the MSZP faction. I give you the floor.
u2023-04-11-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm suspicious when one of the Fidesz politicians starts to insist that something will be protected. When pension funds were protected, 3 million people's pension savings were stolen for nearly HUF 3 000 billion. When national assets were protected, the state-owned MOL and Richter strategic shares were privatised free of charge. When the reduction was first protected, for those years an offshore company called MET, whose official was then the current Minister of Energy, profited. Then, for nearly seven years, we paid more for the gas than it cost. Last year, for the second time, they defended the reduction in electricity, and it became the most brutal increase in energy prices of all time: 200-300 percent increase in electricity and gas prices. No one has ever done such a price increase in Hungary. This brutal Fidesz energy price increase then resulted in bankruptcy and layoffs, which has driven the inflation in Orbán, which is the largest in Europe. I am talking about inflation in Orbán, which resulted in an average increase of almost 25 per cent and an increase in food prices of nearly 50 per cent, because in addition to energy prices, the extra tax levied and the European champion 27 per cent VAT were all included in consumer prices. However, the value of salaries and pensions could not keep up with this. This creates daily difficulties for millions of workers and pensioners. Ladies and gentlemen, When Fidesz politicians talk about the Hungarian state paying over a thousand billion forints into the regulatory fund, let's stop for a few words. One. It's not the state's money, it's the taxpayers' money that we pay in stores, at the gas station, through the European champion's VAT. Two. Orbán and its government have ruined domestic energy policy, ignoring energy efficiency and energy saving. They have hindered and are still blocking the spread of renewable energies, and they are still mixing gas dependence with Gazprom dependence. We could satisfy our gas needs, Hungarian needs from several sources, but besides the puppetage of Minister of Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó, awarded for Russian Friendship, the Hungarian Electric Works Group has concluded a 15-year contract with Gazprom, which has since proved to be the most expensive purchase of Russian gas in Europe. This is the treaty that Viktor Orbán said that this guarantees the reduction of the rent. This also shows that the credibility of the statements of Mr Orbán and Mr Szijjártó must be treated with sufficient reservations, if I may say so delicately. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm a little worried, because Péter Szijjártó has now gone back to Moscow to negotiate energy issues. I wonder how much this will cost the Hungarian taxpayers. Ladies and gentlemen, The consequence of this government dilettantism is that elderly homes, housing institutions for those in need, are on the brink of insurmountability because of the increased energy supply. 18,000 households by mid-March! did not reach the official priced firewood requested for the winter. [[13.50]] Despite increased system usage charges, network developments have been down and there is a solar power connection stop in place throughout the country and no one has been able to build wind power plants for seven years. A thousand and two hundred employees of Magyar Posta will be terminated because of the expensive electricity, because the management has entered into a bad contract, but the management will not be fired. It's outrageous. Ladies and gentlemen, However, if the Fidesz government were to make a living, reduce inflation in Orbán, they would take substantial steps to reduce energy bills, and MVM would provide cheaper energy to local governments and economic operators. But it is difficult to expect this from a Department of Energy, which, as its predecessors did, wants to hide what ended up in nearly HUF 75 billion in the purchase of the Mátra Power Plant; they want to hide why they filled Lőrinc Mészáros' pockets with billions. But I have some bad news: because of the still blinking rule of law in the courts, you will be required in a judgment to release this information, so that we can finally find out why Lőrinc Mészáros's money is more important to you. [[Bence Rétvári: That's right! He's still flickering! Shadow government!]] than the lower energy price. The truth always comes out: for our future together, for Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of MSZP. Eszter Battalion: Applause.]]
u2023-04-11-18	I'll give the floor to Andra Tállai again. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2023-04-11-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, You've brought a lot of questions to Parliament. It seems that the leader of a party of one or two percent wants a lot of things, he wants to bring a lot of topics to the public so that he can say as much as possible, he can criticize the government as much as possible, and he may present good solutions to the country. I would like to start with the fact that you have handled a crisis, led a country before 2010, and with which you started your speech, I would like to tell you that it was you who sold out this country, sold out the entire energy industry and made our country vulnerable, and that this government has to deal with your decisions exactly, with this vulnerability. But I could tell you your bad choices. This is the current situation, where there is war, where there are sanctions, where there are faulty sanctions, and this country must bear the consequences of faulty sanctions. Because if Brussels hadn't been able to make decisions that it forced on the Member States of the European Union, we would have had to deal with the dangers of war, but with what it is economically causing, it would have been able to do much less damage to the country. But what has Hungary done to protect you from the fact that you do not like this word, but I must say what has the government done to protect the population of Hungary, the businesses? The first and most important step, although you underestimate it, is the measures of public security, the decision of public security. For example, the consumption of energy prices prior to sanctioned inflation by the general public up to average consumption and the price at which consumption must be paid. Although you underestimate this and this is not forinted per household, it is still a significant relief for Hungarian households. At all, the fact that this country was able to operate, that there was no major problem, this is due, among other things, to this measure. It is very interesting that in the previous days, in the previous weeks, in your speeches, you essentially praised the government for introducing the price cap as part of the inflation measures. Now, when the essence of your speech is to strongly criticize the government, this part of your speech is that the price cap should be maintained and even extended, this is a clear position of your party. This also indicates that the government does have a measure that triggers a debate from an economic point of view, but also from a political point of view, but one of the opposition parties is you, in particular, which you can support. I think that neither the government will fail its institutions, because there is an opportunity for increased energy costs, whether it is a state or a municipal institution, but whether it is a church or a local government institution, to submit a tender and apply for additional support. This is the case with the municipalities that have already received this support, and next month another settlement comes, if the account is even higher, there is more support. I think that the Hungarian government will do everything in its economic capacity and budget to protect pensioners with a 13th month pension, for example, to protect businesses with tendering opportunities, and to protect families with decisions on public utility protection. He's doing everything he can to protect the country from sanctioning inflation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-04-11-20	I now give the floor to David Bedő from Momentum.
u2023-04-11-21	Thank you very much. 2,500 days. For 2,500 days, they have been trying to scare the Hungarian people. They've been working 2,500 days to instigate people against each other in this country. There are 2,500 days of crisis or emergency in Hungary: the crisis caused by mass immigration, the energy crisis, the emergency caused by the virus and, of course, the war emergency. [[Bence Rétvári interrupts.]] Since 2016 this country has been living in an emergency! [[Bence Rétvári: All generated by Fidesz!]] This, of course, is an excellent service to their power interests. There weren't enough billboards, not enough alarms, not enough propaganda. In 2020, under the corona virus, they saw the real possibility, they found a tool that they could even more easily abuse their power and even less control any manipulation and corruption. Regulation governance was introduced three years ago and is now being extended for another six months. They loved the full power of regulation governance so much that the Fundamental Law was amended last May, but they didn't have to give it up. The epidemic was over, so we had to find some other reason for them to govern the parliament by way of decrees. Nor did it bother you that no other European country has ever experienced this before! [[Bence Rétvári: The French pension law is a good example!]] Hungary has also become a pioneer. [[Bence Rétvári: More Macron!]] The Hungarian government has shown us how to do this. [[Bence Rétvári intervenes several times.]] It wasn't enough for the two-thirds parliament, it wasn't enough to make public media propaganda, it wasn't enough to occupy all the important state institutions; it wasn't enough! [[Bence Rétvári: See how Macron amends the pension law! Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] They needed something else to put the rule of Hungarian society to the top. [[Bence of Rétvári: What is it?]] Yeah, they lied about that, too. They said that regulation governance would be introduced in order to be able to decide quickly on current emergency issues. Let us consider a few examples of the decisions that had to be taken in order to enable the country to defend itself quickly and effectively against the problems caused by the war next door. Just recently, a regulation has been issued that makes it easier to fire teachers who are on strike because of their humiliatingly low salary. [[Bence Rétvári: No way!]] It's a brave decision, but it's hard to imagine how it's connected to the conflict next door. Last summer, the government decreed that it would not have to pay a public domain fee to the already bled-out City Council for the fireworks on 20 August. This is also very closely linked to the war, we can all see it. [[14.00]] Then, by the end of 2022, we got to the point where the country's budget was announced in a regulation. Even in communist times, János Kádár had the courage to call Parliament to discuss the budget. It is quite obvious that this whole rule of law referring to a war emergency is a huge fake. You would like to govern with as little consultation as possible, as little debate, as little transparency and accountability as possible. That's all it's about, nothing else. I just don't understand why they're playing democracy. Crown Viktor Orbán, declare the kingdom, and then it's done. At least that would be honest. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Momentum. Intercoms in the ranks of our country and the Jobbik.]]
u2023-04-11-22	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2023-04-11-23	Honourable Congressman, It is noteworthy that with such enthusiasm he takes the style of political skanzen that the party SZDSZ took to the top years ago. Allow me to respond to the questions you have raised. The exceptional legal order is also common practice in other countries. Such a legal order is usually required in exceptional situations. You may deny it, but during our administration, we have constantly faced extraordinary crises. [[Gergely Harvesto: You made them, that's why!]] We did it, he says Congressman Arato. We faced a migration crisis. Is that what Congressman Harvest said the government did? Did the government cause millions to move towards Europe? Then we faced a plague. Does Congressman Harvesto believe that the outbreak was caused by the government, or is there any other explanation and other cause? Then a war started, regardless of us. It was not Hungary that started this war, but Russia. Are you also saying that that was invented by the government? No? I'm asking you to maintain a certain degree of seriousness. So this government, since it was formed, has been constantly facing crisis situations, and it is fortunate that there is a government at the helm at this time who is primarily looking out for the interests of the country and not trying to meet foreign expectations. As far as the budgetary debate is concerned, the amended budget has also had a debate here in this House. My fellow Members took part in this, and the pro-government Members took part in this. Correct me, but the Momentumists, because they're half boycotts against Parliament, are not involved in a number of debates. So if you do not participate in the debates, you really do not notice that there are debates in the Parliament. So if you'd go to work a little bit more, maybe you'd have more debate. [[Bence Rétvári: It is worth trying!]] It's absurd to bring that up after all. I'd like to respond to one more thing. You've been in action at the Carmelite monastery for the past week. There were so many positives this time that they had now hit the day of the government meeting, because for the first time it didn't really work out. But maybe that's not the point. If we understand correctly, they were protesting for freedom of the press. He referred to this issue in his speech. We don't know if that's what they asked the Momentum for or their own idea, but given the well-known history, it's very strange for you to raise this issue. In fact, during their few years of activity, you have shown many times that you want a freedom of opinion where you have the same opinions as yourself. It was the Momentum, after all, whose president barged into an editorial office to confront a journalist. After all, it was your suggestion that some journalists should be banned from their occupation. Isn't that right, Congresswoman Kálmán Olga? After all, it was left - left representatives who broke into a TV station, broke into a TV station, and demanded that they read all sorts of things there. Anyone who might venture to the thought experiment that it was a long time ago, and they have a different view, since then they no longer exist, see how your representative spoke to a daring journalist a few days ago. I quote, "You can go." That's what he told the journalist, and then he told the reporter that he was a wild animal. I mean, your representative said he was a wild animal. I want you to look into it. There's a lot of footage of it. Now, this question of freedom of opinion and freedom of the press is now quite absurd for you. You're not protesting for freedom of opinion, you're protesting for no other voice than yours. There has been such a thing before 2010, even during the communist decades, and we do not want to see it again. Besides, they can protest any way they want. They can march up in soft, fluffy gloves, swing posters, insult, name the police, and yet no one acts violently, just like they did in 2006. You can see that you want to make a martyr out of yourself, but this is not going to work, because, contrary to what you claim, everyone in this country can say their opinion, politicians too, and Hungarians will decide who they want to choose. They made that decision last April. There is certainly one advantage of such hopeless action, which was presented last week, while not campaigning for Romanian parties in Transylvania and not washing scooters in the shower. If that's all the benefits of last week's operation, then it's worth it, make a decision. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-11-24	László Varju, a representative of DK, applied for a pre-meeting speech. I give you the floor.
u2023-04-11-25	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, On average, we have a 26 percent increase in food prices this year, according to the Magyar Nemzeti Bank, for all of us, after Hungarian food hyper-inflationary has approached or exceeded 50 percent for months. We know that there was no such food price increase anywhere in the world, only in Hungary. So here I am telling the Secretary of State that this increase is not due to war, nor to sanctions, but to you, the Orbán government, which is why we call it inflation in Orbán. Whoever did his Easter grocery shopping may not even be able to imagine that today's prices will go back to crying by the end of the year. That is exactly what György Matolcsy, President of the Hungarian National Bank, said. The formula is simple: because of your failed economic policy, the Hungarian economy is becoming weaker and less and less confident abroad in the Hungarian economy and in the forint, while there is no prospect of obtaining EU money. This uncertainty is priced in the form of market inflation. As the reason for this uncertainty is Viktor Orbán and the Orbán government, this is inflation in Orbán, which, by its very nature, will be with us as long as you are in government. Therefore, the Hungarians are buying more and more expensively because the Orbán government is paying them more and more. As long as you stay, there will be price increases, and obviously, the longer you insist on power, the more everything in the stores will be expensive. You may not have anything expensive for power, but the Hungarians are tired of buying everything at gold prices. The shadow government is the only way out of this situation for the Hungarians. Today Klara Dobrev is the only hope [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] To break down inflation in Orbán and stop the increase. To highlight what you are doing with the Hungarians' livelihoods, I thought that we should do a little bit of play. Let me quote a few prices from the Gyurcsány government's time so that you can take a little account of what you have done to Hungary in the last 13 years. In 2008, during the Gyurcsány government, the price of 1 kilo of bread was HUF 245 according to KSH, in January this year 966 forints. That's four times the price. In 2008, during the Gyurcsány government, 1 kilo of trappy cheese cost HUF 1580, according to KSH in January this year to HUF 4650. That's three times the price. In 2008, during the Gyurcsány government, 1 litre of milk cost 219 HUF according to KSH and 557 HUF this year. That's a 2.5-fold increase. In 2008, during the Gyurcsány government, 1 kilo of edible salt was spent at HUF 71 according to the KSH, and in January this year it was HUF 291. That's four times the price. In 2008, during the Gyurcsány government, 10 ounces of butter cost 206 HUF, according to KSH, to 791 HUF in January this year. That's four times the price. [[14.10]] Terrible differences, and unfortunately, this isn't over. Let's see the gas price. In 2008, during the Gyurcsány government, a cubic meter of gas cost 93 HUF, according to KSH, to 747 HUF in January this year. So the gas cost seven times not twice, but seven times as much as it did during Ferenc Gyurcsány's time. The fuel price did not escape the inflation rate in Orbán either, since in 2008 a litre of petrol cost HUF 266 and a litre of gas oil cost HUF 288. So I really miss you guys for the ringing. They could really hold an information campaign and a national consultation on the fact that the Hungarian economy was stronger during a global economic crisis under the left, and today it was possible to buy, gas and heat for pennies. Believe me, 97 percent of Hungarians would like to replace inflation in Orbán with prices under the Gyurcsány government. Hungary's only hope today is that there is only a governor-capable alternative, there is a shadow government that knows how to end inflation in Orbán and the increase. We're prepared to be able to do what you seem to be completely incompetent. [[Dr. Eszter Vítalyos: Only the people's word is that, dear congressman.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-04-11-26	I give the floor to Secretary Csaba Dömötör.
u2023-04-11-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. On one thing, perhaps we agree that the most important objective of economic policy now is to reduce inflation. We no longer agree on the reason for this inflation. They can deny the effect of the war and the effect of fully viewed energy sanctions, but they still do. It can also be seen from the fact that all Europe, all the EU countries, are struggling with the horror of inflation. Everyone pays the price for this sanctions policy. In our case, this means an extra account of 4,000 billion, so much less the scope of the Hungarian economy, so much money for the country, so much more energy for the country, which we could spend on something else, for raising wages, for road development. [[László Varju: A better contract must be concluded! Olga Kálmán: To the Oligarchs!]] the expansion of the family support programme or the further increase of pensions. There has already been a pension increase, but there could be more if we did not have to spend this 4,000 billion on the increased energy bill. The government does not want to stand by and let the country suffer the consequences of this misguided policy in Brussels, which is why it introduced the pricestops that you did not support, which is why it introduced the interest-stops. When similar challenges were faced before 2010, you did not put in a interest rate stop, but you missed all the tragic consequences of foreign exchange loans. We have raised pensions during this period, and we have raised them now. So this goes with the pension premium and the pension supplement, and we gave back the 13th month, the one you took. We continued the official firewood program. Such a measure, such an extensive measure, was not at your time. To say one more thing about the past few weeks, it is this government that is introducing the new preferential county lease, which makes rail transport much cheaper in the countryside. We also provide a helping hand for businesses. We have extended the interest rate stop to SMEs, preferential credit schemes are launched, and the factory rescue programme can be the solution for large companies. I could tell you about these measures for a long time. The common thing is that you didn't support them at all. In fact, when the economic crisis had to be dealt with before 2010, they pursued a policy that was in the opposite direction, a policy that was more favourable to companies than to Hungarian families. Now, on the issue of EU funds, it really does not break the ceiling to bring this here! Your party president has made it clear that they are working together with the Brussels authorities, the Brussels bureaucrats, in order to create conditions for Hungary that cannot be met. Why? To break down the system of the current government. So that's what this is about! We are not talking about the rule of law, we are not talking about democracy, we are trying to override the will of the Hungarian electorate; in Brussels, we are pursuing a dislikable policy, for example, on the issue of arms sending or sanctions, and you are doing so because your own power was not enough to gain the confidence of the Hungarian electorate. If you or anyone would deny what I'm talking about, I would recommend to everyone the lengthy interview of Ferenc Gyurcsány [[Kálmán Olga: Thank you!]] where, in addition to attacking the mayor in a rather unsearchable way, he puts pressure on him, in a completely public and shocking way, on how they have worked to provide Hungary with conditions that cannot be met in relation to EU money. Now we understand why they want to change the rules on the declaration of assets for the fifth time. [[Gergely Harvesto: You filed it!]] We can therefore understand why they want to raise educational demands that exist in other countries, and such solutions exist in other countries where the Union does not have competence in matters of education. When the editor asks your president that you were working on this, that you would create such conditions, Ferenc Gyurcsány would say that we were there. Well, there they were. Thank you very much for the country, we also feel the consequences. [[Kálmán Olga: Thank you for stealing, too!]] About Klara Dobrev's ability to stop inflation, allow me to say that Klara Dobrev can stop only one thing in this country: her husband, if he wants to. [[Deficiencies in pro-government benches]] Apparently, he doesn't want it very much. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-04-11-28	Now it's KDNP's Deputy Group Leader, Nacsa Lőrinc. I'll give the floor to Congressman.
u2023-04-11-29	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Shocking statements have been made in the domestic press for the past week and a half. It has already been clear that Brussels is, in fact, blocking access to EU funds along political interests, even though we have fulfilled all the conditions, we have amended 17 laws, we have been willing to do everything, and we have previously agreed on everything. As it was clear that their harmful activities would make an effective contribution to the blockage of EU funds, both domestic and Brussels dollar-left representatives. But the fact that none other than the fallen left itself is infamous, his fallen leader should expose himself and his accomplices, the complete dollar left and the Brussels elite to the general public is surprising even for him. It is clear from Gyurcsány's seemingly not ashamed statement that the Hungarian interest does not matter to them at all. For what did Ferenc Gyurcsány say in the radio interview of the ominous March 31st that the entire country has since learned? I quote: "Yes, we have worked to give the European Union conditions that break it down, but at least weaken the Orbán system. In fact, the Union said that you will receive money if you liquidate NER, only this one is dressed in such a legal robe. . Another quote from Gyurcsány: our extremely active Members of the European Parliament are negotiating in terrifying quantities, and they are doing their job in Parliament and with the people of the Commission on a continuous basis. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Ferenc Gyurcsány admitted that they have worked very hard and are working today to ensure that the Union does not give the funds due to Hungary. He admitted that the European Commission, with the strong cooperation of the Hungarian dollar left, has been attacking Hungary for political reasons and has been withholding EU funds that have been legally our country for years now. This is a self-discovery and confession, as Ferenc Gyurcsány's own words prove that Hungary is under political witch hunt. It is therefore quite clear that this is purely political blackmail. But what is the purpose of this? The aim of this is to weaken the national government and to persuade the government to change its pro-peace position. Ladies and gentlemen, On the one hand, the Gyurcsány Declaration is an eloquent proof that the dollar left is still unable to settle for the spectacular defeat of last year's parliamentary elections, and that, driven by their unchanging efforts in power, both MEPs and politicians in Hungarian public life are therefore on the move against their own country in Brussels. So Gyurcsány, giggled in public, admitted that you were all proud to be working against your country, digging against your country. Gyurcsány, Dobrev, Donáth, Gyöngyösi and you should all be ashamed of yourselves here in the Hungarian Parliament! What kind of people are you? Do you keep counting the dollars you keep coming, and at the same time, in the offices in Brussels, you make plans against your own country? ! It's quite shocking. It can therefore be clear to everyone that both Brussels and the dollar left serving foreign interests have obviously lied for many years when it claimed that the European Union institutions have problems with Hungary of a legal nature. [[14.20]] You are the ones who have been running around Brussels, and have put pressure on the Commission, which should work impartially, so that the political witch hunt against our country continues. Ladies and gentlemen, Are you talking about transparency and corruption? Klára Dobrev and István Ujhelyi's socialist party companions and friends are taken daily in handcuffs by the authorities because they accept suitcases of cash. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Watch what you say.]] There should be no doubt that if the Hungarian dollar left in exchange for the billions of forints worth of rolling dollars can be made virtually anything, then this is also true of their Brussels principle friends! [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Watch out, watch out!]] The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that you have chosen Brussels over Hungary, you have chosen foreign interests and alignment rather than the Hungarian national interest. You consciously and intentionally harm your own country, Hungarian businesses, families, municipalities. You are now working against teachers' wage increases. In next year's European elections, voters will be able to judge the foreign-funded left in pro-war, corrupt and anti-patriot schemes. I think we're gonna get the results. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-11-30	Mr Répássy Róbert is the secretary of state.
u2023-04-11-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes. Dr. Agnes Vadai: Not you.]]
u2023-04-11-32	Congresswoman and Congressman, I'm asking you to finish your private discussion or go out into the hallway. I apologize. Mr. Secretary of State has the floor.
u2023-04-11-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I completely understand your anger, and I understand the adjectives you used in this case. I would like to say from the government's point of view, a ministry, from the perspective of a wallet, how these processes take place. For months, since last summer, negotiations have been held, negotiations during which certain members of the government, some wallets, including the Ministry of Justice, have made every effort to bring back the subsidies, the money that belongs to Hungary. In fact, at every trial, we analyze the criticism of the Commission, the Commission's objections, as they say, some Hungarian laws of concern have been discovered. It is interesting, of course, that for many years these worrying laws have not been found, such as justice laws, have been in force for more than ten years. But we have tried to remove these identified concerns from every aspect, and we have submitted all the amendments to the Parliament. You know very well that we have passed a number of laws here in Parliament in order to reach an agreement with the Commission on the return of the funds due to Hungary. But what is it about this process that is completely connected to what you said? That the criticisms that are often unfounded are not first addressed by the Commission, but either here, within the walls of the House, or from the feathers of various so-called independent civil society organisations, and that these criticisms are written there, and that, no, this will be the official position of the Commission in a few days' time. We've experienced this many times, whether it's about fighting corruption, whether it's about justice or not, we've lived to read this criticism for the first time, and it's always been possible to identify these criticisms of where they came from. This would not be a problem in itself; rather, the problem is how these arguments are given up; otherwise, in many cases, false and false arguments are given up to the Commission. Another question is what we can accept and accept from this. There have been a number of such laws, where we believed that these laws would not harm us, we can obviously accept them. It is possible to create another authority in the fight against corruption, to set up certain organisations, and I think we will be able to amend the property declaration law for the fifth time because we love our country and because we want to bring these subsidies home. It is not so that the opposition, who constantly give the Commission new ideas on where to find knots, and indeed, I say again that we read them at home for the first time, hear them at home for the first time, and then hear them as the Commission's official opinion. But at the same time, I would like to tell you that these negotiations are taking place in an orderly and truly normal European way. We are trying to consider all proposals and to submit to this House any proposals which, as I said before, do not harm, but which address the concerns of the European Commission. However, we hope that this process will end at some point, and we hope that now that we have done everything, not 17 but 27 requests, they will not come forward with further requests. We may hope for this, and we hope that you will indeed no longer have any further requests from the Commission, and I think that in a few weeks we can conclude these disputes, if any, beyond the fact that many laws have already been passed by Parliament. So, Honourable House, I can only confirm what Mr President has said that the Brussels Commission will be held at home; it is Hungarians who write the positions in Brussels that do not have to be complicated. I do not think that Brussels bureaucrats will sit there and figure out what amendment is needed in Hungarian laws. They're told from home. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-11-34	I give the floor to Róbert Zsigó for the last time in the line of comments before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. [[Kálmán Olga: This is good too!]]
u2023-04-11-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Europe is living its days of drifting into war, the European Parliament is demanding further arms shipments, fighter planes, helicopters, rocket systems, tanks and more ammunition would be sent to the battlefield. Some Member States have already committed themselves to further arms shipments. These steps can lead to a world war. Dear House, At last week's NATO Foreign Minister meeting, some participants made rather combative statements on military victory and arms transfers, while peace was not mentioned. Hungary's position was also unique from the point of view that we were speaking in the voice of peace, not strengthening the rhetoric of war. The fights also have Hungarian victims. Many Hungarians have been recruited several times by rather brutal means from the ranks of the Hungarian national community in Transcarpathia. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: It's obviously a lie!]] That is why it is important to stress every time: we will not stop pushing for peace, no matter how much pressure they put on us, no matter what we are attacked by it. Dear Parliament, The conflict is worrying, our security is at risk. After decisions are made on the deployment of newer and more powerful destructive tools and the West is making more and more modern tools available to the Ukrainians, the threat of the world war is not a literary exaggeration. It is therefore essential to strengthen NATO decisions that the military alliance is not part of the war and will do everything in its power to avoid a direct NATO-Russia conflict. It is becoming increasingly noticeable: we are close to becoming an acceptable issue in the discussion between European leaders, so that some peacekeeping teams can be sent by the Member States of the European Union. Dear House, Hungary is pro-peace and belongs to the global majority. We have a minority opinion in Europe, but we belong to the majority in the world. They're trying to squeeze us into this war. However, this is a matter of gravity in which the national parliament cannot be bypassed. That is why it is important that Parliament has adopted a resolution in which it stands up for peace and demands a ceasefire. We expect two things from the European Union: first, that there should be lasting peace and, furthermore, that we should preserve the prosperity that has been achieved. Compared to this, we see every day that war and misguided sanctions are destroying the European economy. Hungary must seize every opportunity to stress peace in order to avoid world burns. [[14.30]] Dear Parliament, The dollar left has made it clear several times since the outbreak of the war that he would send weapons or even soldiers into the war. Even before the vote, we asked them to stand on the side of the Hungarians and peace and to support the pro-peace resolution. That's not what they did. Ferenc Gyurcsány and the members of the dollar left did not vote for the pro-peace resolution in Parliament. They did this despite the fact that the Hungarian people want peace. Thus, when the dollar left said no to the pro-peace resolution, he once again proved that he was willing to go against the majority of the Hungarian people in exchange for the dollars, and they chose war again instead of peace. Ferenc Gyurcsány reminds us once again that when it comes to representing national interests, they cannot be expected. Dear Parliament, We are still on the side of peace and will protect Hungary from being dragged into the war. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-04-11-36	I give the floor to Mr Tamás Vargha, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2023-04-11-37	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, [[There's constant noise in the room. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In Ukraine it has been 14 months...
u2023-04-11-38	Anyone who has something to talk to, please step into the hallway. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2023-04-11-39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, The war has been going on in Ukraine for 14 months now, and bloody battles have been going on in our eastern neighbor at this time, with hundreds of thousands of dead and severely wounded, according to the most careful estimates. The fronts are stiff, and the number of meaningless victims is increasing. I would like to emphasise that Russia is the aggressor, and Ukraine is a country attacked without cause before anyone else thinks. From the beginning, we are on the side of peace, saving lives can only be done by truce, and truce is the shortest way to peace. Truce, peace talks and peace. Since we want to stay out of this war, we still do not support any action leading to the escalation of the war, we do not send weapons or soldiers to Ukraine, but we are involved in any preparation that strengthens NATO's defence capabilities and the defence capabilities of the Hungarian Defence Forces. We believe that those who are in favour of the war today, who support further sanctions and arms shipments, are indeed risking the outbreak of the Third World War and going completely against the Hungarian national interests. The government is working to defend Hungary's independence, which means that we defend the pro-peace position that we represent and which the Hungarian left clearly does not support, because they did not vote in favour of the pro-peace resolution, the resolution which was supported by the parties alone. And all of this has been done by not having a single point in this resolution that would not be eligible if a Member were to vote according to his conscience and wish for peace. Unfortunately, the events of the past period are not at all about getting closer to peace. Yet, Europe's security and economic prospects are basically determined when the war will end, how long war acts will take. Our aim is to preserve the strength of the Hungarian economy and, of course, of the European economy, and if we must start war at all costs, we must start war against inflation, we must break down inflation, we must protect jobs, we must protect our families, we must protect our elderly and we must protect people from work. We need to strengthen Hungary's military power, because peace requires strength. To make peace, you need strength, not a simple slogan, but a deeper meaning and a very serious message. One very important message is the need for a strong defence to maintain peace. We need defence, weapons and military technology, but not by transporting it to the war zone, but we need it to protect ourselves, our country, Hungary. The congressman mentioned the NATO defence alliance. About 20 years ago, the Hungarian left thought that NATO's alliance was a friendly alliance where we would be a stowaway, because the alliance would protect us, so we didn't have to do anything, we didn't need strength, the power that was then was trashed. But NATO is an alliance of defense that is an all-for-all, all-for-one principle based on an alliance and defence, not a war alliance. We take our obligations from the NATO Alliance seriously, we're working together to protect ourselves, and we're doing our part. We in Fehérvár are proud to have two direct NATO subordinate units established in Fehérvár: both the NATO integration element and the Central European Multi-national Division Command, which has already reached its initial operational capacity. I think that we Hungarians can all be proud of that. The dollar left is therefore still pro-war, and we are still pro-peace, we are on the side of the Hungarian people, on the side of peace, and we are not going to let anyone bring Hungary to war. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-04-11-40	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2023-04-11-41	Dear Parliament, János Bencze, Jobbik; Balázs Barkóczi, DK; Andrea Hegedüs, DK; Ferenc Varga, independent; Zoltán Varga, DK; Judit Ráczné Földi, DK; Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Dániel Z. Karpát, Jobbik; Attila Sztojka, Fidesz. Bernadett Bakos, LMP; Rebekah Szabó, Dialogue; Dóra Dúró, Mi Hazank; Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; Zsolt Molnár, MSZP; Anna Orosz, Momentum; Ferenc Dávid, DK; Béla Mihálffy, KDNP; Attila Stojka, Fidesz. Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Dávid Dócs, Mi Hazank. On Thursday, Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; Péter Balassa, Jobbik.
u2023-04-11-42	Dear Parliament, Katalin Novák, President of the Republic, sent a transcript of the termination of the office of State Secretary to the Parliament. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the transcript of the President of the Republic.
u2023-04-11-43	Dr. László Fatér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4) (j) of the Fundamental Law and the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration. Law 203. Paragraph 1 (b) and Article 204 On the basis of paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Prime Minister's proposal, I concluded that Dr. Balázs Fürjes, the Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, had resigned with effect from 31 March 2023. Budapest, 2023. CHAPTER IV 4. Sincerely, Katalin Novak.
u2023-04-11-44	Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Please check that your card is in the voting machine. Dear House, I declare that the DK Group has proposed to supplement the agenda proposal, which is proposed in the House Rule 15 of the Decision. I refused pursuant to paragraph 4a of Section 4a, given that it is not subject to Article 15. It has been submitted in accordance with paragraph 4 of Section 4. The proposer of the rejected proposal initiated the repeal of the President's decision. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate by raising hands. I would also like to announce that Mr Ferenc Gyurcsány Group leader has initiated a repetition of the vote using a ballot counting machine, so we will hold the raise-up vote by using a machine counting the vote. Accordingly, I am now asking the Honourable Parliament to keep the OE-42/255-1/2023 in force. President's decision. Please vote using the ballot counting machine. [[Vote. Nacsa Lőrinc: He initiated it and he's not here!]] I note that the House held the President's decision in force by 111 votes in favour, 41 votes against and five abstentions. [[14.40]] I declare that the Momentum Group has proposed to supplement the agenda proposal, which is proposed in the House Rule 15. I refused pursuant to paragraph 4a of Section 4a, given that it is not subject to Article 15. It has been submitted in accordance with paragraph 4 of Section 4. The petitioner of the rejected proposal initiated the repeal of the presidential decision, and the Parliament would decide on this without debate, by raising hands if Mr Ferenc Gelencsér did not initiate the vote with the use of the ballot counting machine. In view of this, the question will therefore be decided by using the ballot counting machine. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the scope of the OE-42/254-1/2023. President's decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the House maintained the President's decision by 112 votes in favour, 41 votes against and six abstentions. I declare that the MSZP Group has proposed to supplement the agenda proposal, which is proposed in the House Rule 15. I refused pursuant to paragraph 4a of Section 4a, given that it is not subject to Article 15. It has been submitted in accordance with paragraph 4 of Section 4. The proposer of the rejected proposal initiated the repeal of the President's decision and the vote with the use of the ballot counting machine. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the scope of the OE-42/256-1/2023. President's decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the House maintained the President's decision by 112 votes in favour, 42 votes against and six abstentions. We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted the agenda. Dear House, In the absence of a committee agreement, on the basis of the motion tabled by the President, we are now deciding on the Commission's discussion and decision-making. I ask the Honourable Parliament to invite the designated Judicial Committee to report on the activities of the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information in 2022, B/2589. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has asked the Committee with 113 votes in favour, 46 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Now, at 3:44 p.m., we move on to interpellation negotiations. Before we begin a series of interpellations, I would like to ask my fellow Members to leave the Chamber quietly and quickly in a short technical break if they are elsewhere. (Sunning: 14.44 14.45) President: László Fat Note: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Szűcs)
u2023-04-11-45	Dear Parliament, So we will continue our work. Mr Zsolt Gréczy, representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice. I give the floor to the congressman.
u2023-04-11-46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, One of the particularly insatiable stories of corruption in the Orbán government is the Volner-Schadl scandal: enforcers, law enforcement servants have stolen, cheated, lied, damaged Hungarian people in difficult situations. Today, it is not only unclear in the scandal of the Orbán government why the chief executioner is in prison and his accomplice and the secretary of state are not, and it is not only clear that the observations and wiretaps are related to the Pegasus scandal, in which the European Union is also investigating. What we already know is that the scandal has reached higher education, as far as I know, it's still under investigation that the chief executive has taken legal exams. It was made public that György Schadl's protege was so unprepared that even Tamás Lukács, Vice President of the Hungarian Court Executive Faculty, on the examination committee, could not push him over, the other members of the committee failed. However, we do not know who else is affected by the scandal, and many do not believe that if a secretary of state was active in the crime, then his superiors did not know about it. But now I'm asking what will happen to those who have been hurt by this mob, because it happened that Schadl's circle of friends, his driver, bought the auctioned property at a price. Völner bought a house like this, and then quickly passed it on to his son's company, so he didn't have to show up in his property statement, which means they were profiting on the people who were auctioned. I'm asking you, do the outcasts, the cheaply bought and then passed on to the family, stay that way? A multitude of families were on the streets while the bailiffs became rich. What about people who have been auctioned, evicted, elderly, children? If the unsubs go to jail, it doesn't make evicted people's fate any easier. I ask you, what will happen to their loss, who will pay for the damage, and what will happen to those who profit from it? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-04-11-47	Mr Répássy Róbert, Secretary of State, is responsible for the answer.
u2023-04-11-48	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Honourable Congressman, If I want to answer you very simply, it is clear that the damage caused by the crime must be reimbursed, that is the order of the law. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in your question, I do not know whether you deliberately or simply misinterpreted the crimes that have already been prosecuted by the prosecution and the alleged or actual violations that we are still investigating. What do I mean? I think that it is quite different whether there is a misdemeanor or an official offence, and another thing, of course, has occurred during an enforcement. If there has been a breach of law in an enforcement, the debtor has a number of remedies against it, such as an enforcement complaint or even a criminal offence. So please make it clear what we're talking about. More than one billion forints of assets were seized by the prosecutor's office in criminal proceedings on charges of a so-called abuse of office or a criminal offence. So this means that the damage caused by the crime is likely to be covered, but no one should make it appear that debts recovered during legal executions do not have to be paid, the debt does not have to be paid. [[Kálmán Olga: Was it a legitimate implementation?]] So please make a clear distinction between the cases that are being prosecuted and the possible abuse of executives. And in the interests of all of us, I ask that judicial enforcement not be impossible because such criminal proceedings are being conducted, because judicial enforcement is in many cases in the interest of the simple people to whom they owe, for example, child support. [[14.50]] Therefore, judicial enforcement is still necessary, and judicial enforcement is based on the rule of law, since judicial or judicial judgment would be useless without judicial enforcement if it was not carried out voluntarily. So I ask that there is no equality between enforcement and crime. We can all sadly conclude that, in fact, according to the charge, there were executors who were rightfully or unjustly, this will be decided by the court, before the court, but it is entirely independent of the question whether the debtors who owe the debt are entitled to pay the debt or not. Please accept my answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-11-49	I'll ask Zsolt Gréczy to accept the answer.
u2023-04-11-50	Thank you very much. Obviously, I can't accept the answer. It is necessary to examine cases where implementations have taken place, from which these certain people, who are now before the court, have tried to profit from their own rights, for their own benefit. It is not about trying to bring enforcement together as a legitimate genre or a crime as an illegal genre. On the contrary, I would like to speak out for the harmed civilians, so that those whose properties these people were profiting from will be punished. At the same time, I draw attention to the need to compensate these people. And speaking of the rule of law, the problem is that, according to the European Union, Hungary is not a rule of law, so if, in this situation, you were to try to repare from this situation, then the perception of the Hungarian rule of law might also be a little more positive. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-04-11-51	Congressman didn't accept the answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, decisions following the interpellations will take place in a block on our sitting today. Dear House, Zita Gurmai, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior. I give the floor to the congresswoman.
u2023-04-11-52	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Restoring health has become the most pressing problem today, because there are slowly daily complaints about what health services Hungarians cannot use in their homes. However, access to health services that ensure the highest level of physical and mental health is not an option, but the right of every Hungarian. That is why it is important for the government to develop and secure the health reform package by listening to health experts, doctors, workers and, of course, healthcare workers. Unfortunately, you didn't do that. Instead of developing a comprehensive health reform, representing both the health profession and patients, you have submitted medical, professional and anti-patient health laws to the National Assembly, despite the fact that the Hungarian Socialist Party has always said that it supports health reforms, but only if it represents the interests of health professionals and patients. Unfortunately, we see that you have not really listened to anyone's professional opinion, or until you have to change your own opinion until you have to compromise. This was the case with the Hungarian Medical Chamber. From the beginning, the Chamber was constructive in the government's plans, and it only chose a stronger resistance when the government's plans clearly jeopardized the safe care of patients. However, instead of listening to legitimate concerns, you decided to punish and weaken the Hungarian Medical Chamber. As a means of their political revenge, they chose to abolish compulsory membership and remove ethical rules while lyingly accusing the Chamber of illegal threats. But the government's plan failed. He failed because we know for sure that at least 33 thousand, or more than two thirds of the doctors, must have voted in favour of chamber membership. The overwhelming majority of doctors have thus confirmed that they not only agree with the Hungarian Medical Chamber, but also agree with its methods. In short, the Medical Chamber considers it necessary to exert pressure on the government in the interest of patient safety. In view of the above, I ask that, since doctors clearly support the Chamber in its resistance to the conversion of basic supply, they are finally willing to listen to professional arguments. Doctors have clearly authorized the Chamber to represent their interests, even against the government. Is the government finally willing to negotiate as an equal with the Medical Chamber? And finally, given the clear decision of the doctors, will you finally finish your political revenge-based policy? Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause for the opposition.]]
u2023-04-11-53	Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer. Here you go.
u2023-04-11-54	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Hungarian people cannot forget the period of so-called socialist reforms in Hungarian health care. You know, you started by making health care pay: if someone went to a doctor, you had to pay; if you were in the hospital, you had to pay every day. We also remember that there were fewer and fewer places to pay in terms of closing four hospitals or eliminating 16,000 active beds. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.) The way you treated doctors, no one's treated doctors since maybe the '50s. In particular, doctors' salaries were reduced, because, indeed, after the Second World War, when the Communists came to power, there was an example that since the intellectuals were considered to be general enemies, doctors were also wanted to punish and reduce their salaries, but since then no one took the liberty of taking one month's salary from doctors in 2008-2009, and from nurses, they reduced their salaries by 8 percent. So much for socialists and reform. This is not the reform that people cry out for; neither doctors, nor nurses, nor patients, nor healthy people would like this to come back again, what you have called reform in Hungary. As far as the on-call system is concerned, honourable Member, we have had a lot of discussions with the Hungarian Medical Chamber, and they have also told us what parts of the basic care and on-call system should be changed in their opinion. We were moving in the same direction, but after a while it became obvious to everyone that the Chamber was playing a double game. When you come into the Ministry and negotiate with Minister Pintér, Secretary of State, Péter Takács, and the rest, you speak in the voice of agreement. Then, when they speak to the press three days later, they oppose these proposals. It is also so strange that a chamber leader opposes his own proposal just so that he can face the government. What was previously his direction of proposal was later opposed to the government proposal in that direction, only to attack the government. And in this Chamber, he abused the opportunities given to the Medical Chamber, namely, that they would initiate ethical proceedings against doctors who would heal patients on duty. Can you say another country where the Medical Chamber is at this position or any medical public body, that a doctor who signs in the on-call system in the afternoon and weekend, cooperates with the government and carries out his duties on duty, which has always been part of the medical profession, and who is on call, who is on call, who is on call, who is on call, and who is on call, and who is being treated for ethics? As you know, the ethical process could not only be a dialogue, a reproach, but the ethical process, according to previous legislation, have also ended by excluding the person from the Chamber. The exclusion from the Chamber is not the same as excluding a person from the local sports club, but this means that, despite having attended a university for six years, he has been resident for three years, despite having a degree, despite having an exam, he cannot practice his medical profession simply because he is a political position vis-à-vis a government by the board of directors of the Medical Chamber, and is trying to get him to do so, thus pressureing doctors not to continue their previous duties under the new legal conditions, when they are no longer organised by local governments or by different CSFs, but by the National Rescue Service. Our goal was for patients to receive care in the afternoon and in the evening and in the weekend, and the chamber said that anyone who cooperates in this will be impossible, existentially destroyed, lost their livelihood. The threat was that they could never cure us again, and it was our job to provide for the safety of people. That's why the government decided not to give the Chamber the opportunity to destroy doctors existentially, to keep the medical records of doctors in the Health Scientific Council, and not to put pressure on doctors. That's why we took this step so that patients could be treated 24 hours a day. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-11-55	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congresswoman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. [[15.00]]
u2023-04-11-56	Unfortunately, I can't accept it. I do not think it is possible to point to the past when the government's activities threaten the health of Hungarians today, when fewer and fewer doctors have to treat more and more patients; but we have talked about this before. I think it would be nice if you finally accepted that government reform plans are inadequate, anti-patient, anti-medical, and anti-professional. And when the Chamber put pressure on the government, it didn't abuse its power, it did its legislative tasks. I would also like to say very clearly that the Chamber's illegal threat to anyone is a huge lie. The government's lie tsunami is totally unacceptable, especially when government agencies were the ones who blackmailed doctors to force them to work without a contract on duty. And it's obvious that the Prime Minister doesn't think it's normal to send an ambulance from Veszprém to a capital-wide legbreaking patient. Thank you for listening.
u2023-04-11-57	Thank you very much. Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our sitting today. Dear Parliament, Róbert Dudás, a representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance:. Are they deliberately destroying the economy or are they unfit to perform their duties? It's an address. At the request of Mr Márton Nagy, Minister for Economic Development, who is responsible and competent on behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, Deputy Minister, will respond to the interpellation. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-04-11-58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In Hungary there is propaganda government, not from now on, for a very long time. We could mention a number of areas where demonization and propaganda are going, we can safely say 0-24 hours. But we can also say that sanctions are a constant example; sanctions that have been voted not by me, not by us, but by you one by one. That's what they do every day on television and in the media. They say that people in the declining West are getting cold, people are starving, they have nothing to pay for their bills. Well, let's be honest, in that declining West, they thank you, they're fine, they can pay their heating bills, they can put food on the table even during the holidays. Obviously, prices have increased there, even more than once, but let's not forget that their salaries are also multiples. The effects of war are felt throughout Europe; we can safely say that we should stay in Europe all over the world. The impact of the war is therefore felt throughout Europe, prices have increased everywhere, and governments have tried to put in place measures to help the economy, but not least to help the economy. A great many countries, including Germany, could be said for Portugal through Poland, where taxes have been reduced. They reduced their taxes, some have released their taxes, some have reduced taxes on basic foods, and some have even released the reduced basic food tax, for example in Poland, where this tax was released until the summer of this year, thus helping the population. Economics does not really propose a solution in this case, and the opinion of the experts behind the government is the same, and this is the long-term introduction of the public price. Not because it is an inflation-enhancing, price-enhancing measure, and otherwise a negative impact on the economy as a whole. None of the countries in the European Union, except Hungary, have even dealt with this. Not only was it introduced in Hungary, but we do not know how long they intend to last. And how much inflation did it cause? In the European Union as a whole, the average VAT on food has not exceeded 30 per cent for any country. Only one country is the exception, namely Hungary. In Hungary, this is 47 percent, which clearly shows that all this is a facade measure. By the way, we can see two positive aspects of this: it can be sold as a good measure, while destroying the economy and providing huge tax revenues. My question, Mr Secretary of State, is when this inflation and price-enhancing communist price cap will be launched, because it is merely a pretend measure. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2023-04-11-59	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy, who will answer the question.
u2023-04-11-60	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I wish you were right about all this propaganda. Unfortunately, war is not propaganda, unfortunately sanctions, faulty sanctions in Brussels are not propaganda, and the impact of all these on Hungary and the Hungarian people is not propaganda, but unfortunately, the everyday reality. We therefore have every day to protect jobs, families, pensioners, the Hungarian economy, small and medium-sized enterprises. To reduce inflation and protect families, the government has so far taken a number of measures, a significant part of which protects jobs and another significant part of them protects families and pensioners. The last sentence of your question was when we would like to lead out the price caps. At a time when inflation will fall noticeably, when basic food will be available to everyone without the impact of price caps. Our aim is to reduce inflation to one digit by the end of the year and to take proportionate action on price caps. The pricestops, the price caps, were not introduced in January 2022 in a good way, but basically because of the sanctions in Brussels and the war environment surrounding them. These were extended in November 2022. We are convinced that this measure has been useful and has helped to reduce inflation, and that as long as inflation is high, we will not lead to price stops. We will continue to maintain the energy average consumption system, and, as I have already said, we will lead to the current price caps after inflation has been reduced, as is the case with bank credit rates. In order to reduce inflation and control the difficulties that you have rightly mentioned, retail shops are closely monitored. In recent months, the most common problem the inspectors have encountered is that the price-stop products were in the warehouses, but they were not on the shelves. There is a need for cooperation in critical times, and it is therefore unacceptable that tricky businesses do not comply with the rules. Honourable Congressman, 2023, whether we like it or not, whether we want it or not, the year of danger. The danger of war and inflation must be dealt with at the same time. We say it many times, and every possible time, I say it myself, that the government and the governing parties are on the side of peace. Once the fights are over and sanctions are lifted, we believe that inflation would also be significantly reduced and that it would disappear after a while. The government will do everything in its power to protect families, small and medium-sized enterprises, pensioners, all parts of society and all its members. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-11-61	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, János Fónagy. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2023-04-11-62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. In the first half of last year, two thousand small businesses closed. In addition to customers, small businesses, small shops, are the biggest sufferers of official prices, and through this we also indirectly reach customers. So it all hits the customers. [[15.10]] In response to the opposition before the agenda, one Secretary of State has already acknowledged that the government also sees the impact of price caps on the economy as harmful, and the question is when the whole government will think so and when it will lead it out. Secretary of State, over half of the time since the change of regime in the last lifetime, your government has been in power, and you have been in control. It is this vulnerable, this vulnerable Hungary has never been more vulnerable than it is now. Romanian GDP has left Hungary, but unfortunately we have become the poorest country in Europe. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I can't accept the answer. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2023-04-11-63	Thank you very much, so the Member did not accept the answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our sitting today. Dear Parliament, Dávid Dócs, representative of Mi Hazank, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:. When does the government plan to support more intensively Hungarian farmers and agriculture instead of foreign multinationals, for whom there is literally a stake in living in this situation? It's an address. Congressman David Dócs has the floor.
u2023-04-11-64	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Deputy Minister, Our country has always been able to rely primarily on its agricultural talents throughout history. Unfortunately, however, Hungarian farmers cannot rely on the Hungarian government in this time of crisis, because instead of reducing their increased burden, the infinite support for multinationals and the newly built battery factories for foreign workers remain the main direction of the government's economic policy. The period of the coronal virus has also demonstrated what a disaster and panic can lead to if a country is vulnerable to food self-determination, and now the huge increase in food inflation, as well as the deterioration of our salaries and currency, has added a shovel to this. Our country should once again become the pantry of Europe by restoring agriculture, which is the role that our country should play in our position. However, the reality of the present shows that inflation and war have only increased the burden of the agricultural sector in a difficult situation in peacetime. Excessive bureaucracy, the new aid conditionality, for which there was not enough migration time, often withholding aid makes many farmers completely impossible in this situation. In this sector, high fuel and input prices have the strongest impact, as well as the trend in buying-in prices due to significant volumes of cereal imports, as well as the shift of human resources from land to factories. EU farmers, including Hungarian farmers, can only trade their products under strict regulations after a thorough inspection. But this regulation does not apply to cereals produced by our eastern neighbour, which flow into our country in huge quantities and are of low quality, of dubious origin and, in many cases, dangerous to health. Instead of the 50-60 thousand tonnes previously observed, more than one million tonnes of grain and oil seeds arrived in our country from Ukraine. As a result, a critical situation has emerged in the Hungarian crop market. So it is not an intriguing statement that Hungarian agriculture is in great trouble. Our Hungary is the only political force that would prefer to support Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, Hungarian workers and Hungarian farmers rather than wealthy foreign multinationals. You have had 13 years to start building an independent Hungarian national economy, which has not yet been successful, and now you have chosen the wrong strategic direction when, like the country of iron and steel, our country is badly transformed into the country of the automotive assembly plant. My question is, then, when does the government plan to support more intensively Hungarian farmers and agriculture instead of foreign multinationals, for whom literally existence is at stake in the current situation. I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-04-11-65	Thank you very much, Congressman Dócs. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas.
u2023-04-11-66	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The claim that the support of multinational companies in our country has an advantage over small and medium-sized enterprises is simply a fake and a liar. I would like to reject the many questions raised by you and mentioned as negative, because Hungarian agriculture, Hungarian agriculture, the Hungarian countryside is a social group that is developing, developing, creating an extremely strong society, agriculture, and those involved in this agriculture are increasingly receiving social recognition, a significant part of Hungarian consumers, or I could almost say, everyone recognizes this work without exception. The government is committed to strengthening small and medium-sized agricultural enterprises, and this is confirmed by the distribution of the priority agricultural investment support from the rural development programme in the period 2014-2020, since 60 percent of the beneficiaries have holdings below 50 hectares and 37 percent have holdings below 500 hectares. Our strong aim was also to further strengthen small and medium-sized economies in the planning of the common agricultural policy's domestic strategy. The new common agricultural strategy represents a total of EUR 14.7 billion for our country. The Hungarian CAP includes HUF 2485 billion in direct sectoral support and HUF 2891 billion in rural development. This is the amount of support, such financial support to the Hungarian countryside, the Hungarian agriculture has never had in history. Ensuring liquidity for small and medium-sized agricultural enterprises requires forward-looking and responsible government work. The government granted a credit moratorium to the agricultural sector in order to help finance loans to farmers, with interest rate-stops being introduced on loans from HUF 286.6 billion of agricultural medium-sized enterprises, market-based, variable interest rate and non-interest-supported loans from farmers. The EU's direct area and animal-based aid payments were also paid in advance and in instalments for the relief of drought damage last year, amounting to HUF 322 billion. In 2022, the application of the official price of fuel to agricultural machinery allowed producers to save some HUF 39 billion, while 22 thousand producers received an agricultural compensation allowance of HUF 50.6 billion until 31 March to reduce losses of last year's exceptionally drought. In the context of the cereal market situation, talks are now being held at the prime minister level, so that these barriers, these grain shipments entering Hungary, do not break down, not only in Hungary, but also in Europe, and do not make the cereal market prospects impossible. I hope, honourable Member, that it has become clear to you that there is a sufficient amount of resources available for all elements of the support system for the renewal of the rural and agricultural sectors, so that the full and comprehensive renewal of the Hungarian agriculture and food industry can continue. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-11-67	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Farkas. I'll ask the congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2023-04-11-68	Thank you very much, but I cannot accept the answer, because the reality, Mr Deputy Minister, is that Hungarian soil and Hungarian farmers are so protected that at present Korean battery factories are built on the best soils in Hungary, on 45 golden crowned soils; and small and medium-sized agricultural enterprises are almost completely eliminated and crumbled, because the amount of support has simply not been criticized, it is simply poorly concentrated and it is given to the large ones, because at the size of 500 hectares we can no longer talk about small and medium-sized agricultural enterprises. Therefore, we see that more and more people are turning away from agriculture, and unfortunately, more and more people are abandoning this beautiful profession and profession, and that if there is no government lifeline to help them, unfortunately, the Hungarian agriculture and Hungary will be so much poorer. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]] [[15.20]]
u2023-04-11-69	Thank you very much. The congressman didn't accept the answer. I would like to inform you that a decision will be taken in accordance with our agreed agenda today. Dear Parliament, Ms Rebecca Szabó, representative of the Dialogue, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Energy:. What is more important: the authority of Viktor Orbán or the sustainable future? It's an address. Congresswoman Rebecca Szabó has the floor.
u2023-04-11-70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, If riding backwards on a dead horse was an Olympic number, no one could take the gold medal from Hungary. [[There's a grumble and a blur in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Although Viktor Orbán has been quitting the Dakota proverbs he invented for some time now, I think an entire country remembers saying his favorite fake aphorism: if you notice you're riding a dead horse, get off him! Well, in the Dialogue-Greens, we believe that the older Viktor Orbán could listen to the younger Viktor Orbán, because there is no horse deader than the planned Paks expansion in this Carpathian Basin. Instead of getting off it, the Orbáns become increasingly violently spurred, and do not realize that they are sitting back on it, facing the war aggressor towards Russia and towards an unsustainable economic model. That this Russian-participant Paks expansion has failed, that is to say, apart from Péter Szijjártó, who strives to serve the Prime Minister's environment and Lavrov's medal every day, everyone knows, so much that Péter Szijjártó is negotiating in Russia, right now. Balázs Orbán, political director of the Prime Minister, recently stated in the Parliament that this investment was blocked by Germany. Dear majority of governments, The situation is much more serious: the investment is blocked by the Russian Rosatom, since it has not been able to submit a permitable plan documentation in accordance with EU rules for the ninth year. And not only here in Finland, but the Finns were faster connected, and they had already given up the path of a non-performing Rosatom. However, the Hungarian government would continue to ride backwards, more precisely, if the dead horse were willing to move. But he won't. But it's clear what should be done. On the one hand, the Orbán-Putin pact, which was born in a lie, must be terminated because of the Russian party's breach of contract. The whole of Paks II. project in the same way as we said before, even when the contract was concluded, wrong direction. On the other hand, it is necessary to turn its back on the past, i.e. Russian energy sources, and therefore to gigantic power plants with both political and economic risks. It is time to face the future: the future and real energy self-determination are green energy. That is to say, the solar energy tax and the wind power ban must be abolished immediately. The energy modernisation of the Hungarian housing stock must be implemented, in which, according to a Századvég study, there is one and a half decks of reserves. I know that this would be a serious loss of prestige for Fidesz and personally for Viktor Orbán, but I think that this is the point where we have to decide which is more important: the authority of Viktor Orbán or the independence and sustainable future of Hungary? That's your answer, please. Thank you.
u2023-04-11-71	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Rebecca Szabó. I give the floor to Secretary Zsófia Koncz to answer the question.
u2023-04-11-72	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In relation to his question, more specifically the style, and the messages, I thought of the following things: little dialogue, loud words, political malice, or the hope that in Hungary I wish things were wrong in my mind while listening to you. I would like to point out immediately that, according to a recent survey published by the European Commission, 48 percent of Europeans are concerned about paying their overhead. Think about it: if your nuclear energy claims were to be implemented, what would happen to the reduction of the rent here in Hungary! Let's talk a little bit about nuclear power plants. In connection with the energy crisis that has hit the whole continent, the role of nuclear power plants has certainly been greatly appreciated. It is no coincidence that Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Finland, France, the Netherlands, Croatia, Poland, Hungary, Romania, Slovakia and Slovenia have recently agreed on closer and wide-ranging cooperation in the field of nuclear energy, and there are already concrete examples of what decisions have been taken. In Belgium, last year, the government decided to extend the lifetime of two nuclear power plants by ten years, contrary to its previous decision. In March, the French Parliament voted by a large majority in favour of the Government's nuclear investment plan, which aimed at the construction of six new nuclear reactors. According to the French Minister for Energy, this is the first building block of a huge project to reboot our nuclear industry, adding that our goal is to make France a large, carbon-free and sovereign country. Moreover, in achieving carbon neutrality itself, which Hungary has set itself a target for 2050, the issue of nuclear energy also has a very important role to play. In recent news in Germany, the liberal FDP, in opposition to the Social Democratic Chancellor, as a member of the government coalition, insists on extending the operation of nuclear power plants. From the point of view of our country: we are trying to increase domestic production in all respects, but we do not have significant sources of oil and natural gas, and the situation is that we need a further import energy independence project. Nuclear energy is an outstanding opportunity for us to become independent in the international energy crisis. This is why the government is also encouraging renewable energy sources, and we are doing everything we can to ensure that energy security is maintained in the future and that we can also maintain the cost protection. But we're not giving up on Paks I's extension of operational time, nor Paks II's. construction. The positions of the left-wing and Hungarian people do not really meet here, because according to a survey or research published at the beginning of March, the support for nuclear energy has increased significantly in Hungary. 66 percent of Hungarians said that nuclear energy is seen as a secure and continuous power supply for the population by the Hungarian people. My problem is always when you try to fight against nuclear energy, that you never tell me the consequences of what would happen if those things ever happened to happen. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-04-11-73	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I'll ask the congresswoman to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2023-04-11-74	Dear Secretary of State, If what we have been proposing for years has been achieved, then we may no longer be so dependent on Putin and the aggressor of Russia. And by the way, it's good that the ceiling is strong here, because when you say that there was political malice in my speech, I don't know what to call it when you keep accusing us, for example, of pro-warism, which is obviously a lie; of course we're on the side of peace, but you say this stupid propaganda speech forty-six times a day. And the truth is, we also say alternatives. Benedek Jávor, who is the head of the European Parliamentary List of Dialogues-Greens, asked you with a written question to find out that, for example, you are planning to use American Westinghouse heating elements in existing Paks blocks. After all, one of our criticisms is really about nuclear energy, and this is what I listed the alternatives for; but the other is also very important that we do not depend on Putin, and Peter Szijjártó does not keep running to Russia, but maybe try to become independent. So I can't accept that answer at all, and I think it's really scary. Thank you.
u2023-04-11-75	Thank you very much. The congresswoman did not accept the answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our sitting today. Dear Parliament, Máté Kanász-Nagy, representative of the LMP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade:. Why do they create exploitative and inalienable jobs in Hungary, while the world's ringing crisis calls for a reduction in the vulnerability of people? It's an address. Congressman Matthew Kanász-Nagy has the floor. [[15.30]]
u2023-04-11-76	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, There are some ground rules that the government doesn't deny. Among other things, the government's support for multinationals in public money specifically builds its economic policy to lure international capital into our country. It does this with hundreds of billions of state aids and the provision of a tax haven environment. However, if something has become clear over the last three years, it is that the current system is inoperative. During the epidemic, the problems that long supply chains can cause, the ecological crisis is making our resources more scarce, and inflation is getting worse because of the economic crisis. These problems arise from the mistakes of the exploitative, profit-rich, half-peripheral, wild capitalist system. However, the government does not want to go beyond this, but to continue its failed policy, because it is busy attracting foreign capital and selling out Hungarian workers and natural resources. The exploitation of workers also shows that these multinationals are supposed to offer workers a better standard of living. While the difference is not significant, slightly better salaries that can be obtained are secured by overtime, multi-shift regulations, ignoring the OSH rules. These OSH standards are particularly important for battery factories. In recent years, several battery companies have violated its rules, yet the government has hardly punished them. Meanwhile, employees' rights have been reduced so much that there is virtually no possibility of a strike. Ignoring workers' rights, the spread of temporary workers makes workers more vulnerable. Hungary has neither sufficient natural resources nor sufficient employees to attract the battery companies; this has been recognised several times. It is also the way Minister Martin the Great tours in the media's publicist publications. The formula is simple: capital has no ideology. Big capital has one logic: capital itself, profit maximization. This requires the government to create a proper environment, and if that environment means massive state subsidies, exploitation of workers, waste and sale of our natural resources, forests, lands and waters, then the Hungarian government will do so willingly, because they say that this is how they can make our country more attractive to multinational capital. My question on this basis is relatively simple: why does the government not place greater emphasis on the protection of Hungarian workers? When will you end your vulnerable situation? I'm waiting for an answer from the government representative. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the opposition benches.]]
u2023-04-11-77	Thank you, Congressman Máté Kanász-Nagy. I give the floor to the Secretary of State Tamás Menczer.
u2023-04-11-78	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, You talked about jobs in a number of contexts, what you have to say has been spinning around and around the workplace. So above all, before we get to the performance of the current government, which you have been kind enough to appreciate, I am afraid that we do not agree on the evaluation, but before I get to that point, allow me to say that I think it is very important to say that the creation and protection of jobs is, at least, I trust that we agree on this, because, in the government's view, if there is work, there is everything, then there is regular income, there is a regular income, a predictable vision and existence of the family. On the other hand, if there is no job and no job, then there is uncertainty, and with that, fear is obvious. However, let us add that before 2010, when your policy friends led this country, unemployment was 11.5-12 percent. So you're talking about how jobs work, wages, different circumstances. These are important questions, but when you ran this country, you didn't have to talk about that, you had to talk about whether you had a job or not, and the answer is that you didn't. Therefore, many families had no income, no secure income, no existence, no bankruptcy in this regard, and many other aspects of the country; therefore, let us state this as a first point. The second is that you're talking about a tax haven. No, Hungary is not a tax haven, honourable Member. It is true, however, that this government is the government of tax cuts, and I understand that you and your principle friends want to raise taxes in a number of programmes and in many ways, but we always say no to that. Our policy is and results from the fact that personal income tax is the lowest in the European Union in Hungary today, and corporate tax is one of the smallest, with Hungarian corporate tax at the beating places. We do not wish to raise taxes even if you ask us to do so and expect us to do so. The third thing I would like to note is that you claim that Hungarian economic policy has failed. Now, of course, the situation is extremely difficult: there was a coronal virus, now there is war, there are harmful sanctions. So I don't want to say it's easy, but it's not easy. We are suffering disaster inflation and all the harmful effects of war and sanctions. However, the fact remains that last year, the last closed 2022 year, we were able to bring our public debt down from the previous 77 percent to 73.5 and reduce it to below 70 percent this year. So we are reducing public debt, unlike you, in a difficult situation. At the same time, it is true that last year in Hungary GDP growth was 4.6 percent, 7.1 percent before last year, this is a historical record, and the 4.6 percent 2022 result is 1 percent more than the EU average. And it is also true that despite sanctioned inflation, which is why we are talking about sanctions and sanctions, but real wages still increased 2.6 percent last year, and if we compare it to your governance in 2010, then even without family tax relief, real wages increased by 70-71 percent, more than 70 percent. So that's a lot to call bankruptcy. As regards battery companies and investments, let me say in closing that for these investments, it does not matter what you say here Monday to Monday or Tuesday to Tuesday, there is a huge competition in Parliament in the world. They serve to keep jobs, create new jobs, and Hungarian economic growth. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It is regrettable that you are going against the Hungarian interest in this, as was the case with migration, the corona virus, the war and the sanctions, and we are sorry to see that. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-11-79	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2023-04-11-80	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Even at European level, the Secretary of State seems to think that a record low tax rate of 9 percent is too high. Therefore, it may be necessary to conclude that there is indeed an intention of Mr Secretary of State to establish status in offshore paradises for multinational companies. There has been relatively little mention of jobs. He said, Mr Secretary, that the creation of these are extremely important. The question is, who do we create these jobs for, because we know very well that these battery companies fill a large part of the workplace by bringing in workers from abroad to the Far East. I don't know where this is worth it to us. The second is that what Hungarian labour force works in these factories, these battery factories absorb labour from existing Hungarian businesses. So even if they create a job, on the other hand, another job will be terminated. Unfortunately, the Secretary of State has not said much about the protection of jobs, so I cannot accept the answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the opposition benches.]]
u2023-04-11-81	Thank you very much. Mr President, you did not accept the answer and therefore, in your case, the decision will be taken on our sitting today. Dear Parliament, Kristóf Szatmáry, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Economic Development:. What measures does the Government take to break inflation and protect Hungarian families? It's an address. Mr Kristóf Szatmáry has the floor.
u2023-04-11-82	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Prolonged war and unimagined sanctions have caused visible difficulties not only for the population but also for all economic actors throughout Europe. In order to combat sanctioned inflation and to protect the economy, the government has already had to take a number of measures; it has done so. The good news is that the results of these are already partly visible, so the measures work. Perhaps one of the best examples of this is that after the peak in January, in February, inflation has started to decline, and last month's data, as we hope, will further strengthen this trend. [[15.40]] However, in order for inflation to become a single digit in Hungary by the end of the year, further measures are needed to prevent overpriced measures while at the same time significantly increasing competition in the domestic retail sector. In an unpredictable economic environment, effective action by the NCA is, of course, essential. The Hungarian Competition Authority prioritises the protection of Hungarian families and the assistance of companies that follow the law. Fortunately, the GVH actively participates in the break-down of inflation by paying particular attention to price-setting practices in food retail chains. This is likely to result in a significant reduction in the prices of different products in different trade chains over the last few weeks. These price monitoring plans focus first on the types of food in the retail sector. Moreover, international experience also highlights that increasing price transparency ultimately increases competition through comparability of consumer prices and has a long-term downward impact on prices. It is good to know, by the way, that the government is also doing everything in the economic situation of war and sanctions to protect families, pensioners and Hungarian businesses. Despite the fact that 2022 may have been one of the most difficult years since the turn of the millennium, economic data are also encouraging, as we can see that the growth rate of GDP exceeds the European average, energy procurement has been extremely difficult, but it has been possible over the past period. In this way, I would like to ask the honourable Secretary of State what further measures the government is expected to take to reduce inflation and to protect Hungarian families. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-11-83	Thank you very much, Congressman Kristóf Szatmáry. I give Mr János Fónagy the opportunity to respond.
u2023-04-11-84	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the prolonged war and the wrong sanctions are affecting the economy throughout Europe, causing energy crises and inflation. The government has set itself the objective of reducing inflation to one digit by the end of the year in order to protect families, full employment and pensions and to prevent recession. A number of measures have been decided to curb the increase. Anti-inflationary measures include food pricestops and interest stops, inflation has peaked over the past period, and we hope that it has slowed down. In order to make the process of falling inflation as strong and as significant as possible, we need to seize all possible means. The government is constantly searching for these tools. Thus, the Ministry of Economic Development supported the competition proposal of the President of the Economic Competition Office to create an online price monitoring database. In order to reduce sanctioned inflation, to protect families and the economy, we need to further strengthen and broaden the role of consumer protection. International experience, such as Greek or Romanian, has shown that increasing price transparency, comparability of consumer prices, enhance competition, which can have a moderate impact on prices in the long term, and, last but not least, strengthen consumer awareness. The aim of the online price monitoring service is to make available to the general public a database that enables the development of consumer prices to be compared in a transparent way, prevents over-pricing, while at the same time significantly increasing competition in the domestic retail sector. Price monitoring is planned to focus first on types of food in the retail sector. The joint aim of the parties is to ensure that, preferably by the end of the second quarter of the year, the electronic price monitoring system is in place, which can be added to another element as a result of the government's package of measures against inflation, which has so far been made up of twenty elements. I would like to stress that there is no escape from price-stop rules, and that their compliance is still expected by the government, so we have constantly monitored their compliance, so far in some 450 shops. By the way, according to previous experience or previous experience, it was a common problem that price-stop products were in the warehouse and they were not placed on the shelf. The government remains committed to breaking down sanctioned inflation, repressing it back to one-digit by the end of the year, while protecting the Hungarian economy from recession and recession. Our aim is to increase the Hungarian economy by around one-and-a-half percent again this year, and to start GDP growth again next year. And the price stops stay until inflation is on a noticeably declining path. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-11-85	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2023-04-11-86	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Mr State Secretary, I also accept the answer in advance, of course, in the hope that the previous measures taken by the Government in this difficult situation, in particular to reduce inflation, will have an impact. But in fact, we fully agree that we cannot rest here, because there are a lot of retail comments or simple private shopping experiences that show that sometimes in a large chain there are food price increases that cannot be interpreted with market or common sense. In this case, there is indeed a need for the government to act decisively and involve the Hungarian Competition Authority by clarifying these price increases, and these trade chains are, by the way, subject to normal pricing. Indeed, the hope is that inflation will decrease by the second half of the year to such an extent that both Hungarian families and Hungarian businesses will have a new opportunity. Thank you very much for your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-11-87	Thank you very much, Congressman Kristóf Szatmáry. Dear Parliament, András Aradszki, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Energy: It's an address. Congressman András Aradski has the floor.
u2023-04-11-88	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, On 31 March 2023, two very important votes took place in the Hungarian Parliament: we decided on the pro-peace resolution proposal submitted by the ruling parties and we decided to amend the budget for 2023, which included a modification of the costs of security. Not surprisingly, the left did not vote for either the pro-peace resolution or the proposal to amend the budget. In other words, it turns out that the dollar left is not only pro-war, but does not even want to protect people from the harmful effects of war and sanctions. Of course, why would they want it if they were on the side of war and sanctions themselves, i.e. Brussels is on the side of the dollar left, against the Hungarian nation, against the Hungarian national interest. The dollar left, like last year's budget proposal, once again said no to the protection of overhead cuts, families, jobs, pensioners and the country. The amendment of the budget was to quadruple the Rezhi Protection Fund to prevent the effects of energy fluctuations in the light of the changing circumstances caused by the increasingly prolonged war and sanctioned energy crisis. Thanks to the support votes of the pro-government majority who are committed to sober and home, the former HUF 670 billion budget of the Rezségvédelmi Fund has finally increased to HUF 2580 billion, which ensures that Hungarians can continue to obtain the most important energy sources at a price protected to the extent of average consumption. [[15.50]] Hungary still does not pass on increased energy prices to people to the extent of average consumption, thereby helping all families with HUF 181 thousand per month. This is a unique system throughout Europe, based on the official energy price established in 2014. It is important to note that, as a result of the establishment and increase of the regulatory framework of the Retirement Fund, MVM Next data shows that over the past period almost 81 percent of the accounts for the supply of natural gas and 65 percent of the electricity supply did not include energy accounted for at retail market prices. I ask the honourable Secretary of State how the government can maintain its protective measures during the prolonged energy crisis. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-04-11-89	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary Zsófia Koncz.
u2023-04-11-90	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In the difficult situation caused by the war in Ukraine, the most important task of the Hungarian government is to ensure energy supply and to maintain energy security. Just think of the whole situation that has been caused by the war and the bad responses to it in Brussels, what a competitive situation it would otherwise put Europe in. Today, the price of natural gas is seven times the price of the American, and the price of electricity is three times the price of the Chinese. The penalty inflation has so far taken HUF 4000 billion out of the pockets of the Hungarian people. In this situation, we must work at all costs to help the everyday lives of Hungarian families and Hungarian people. I think that we can show a lot of positive things in this regard, because if we look at how much electricity is paid for, say, elsewhere, let's say, we looked at the February data to highlight only the most important things: in Rome, London, Berlin and Dublin, people paid more than 5 times the Hungarian price reduced; in the case of natural gas, these differences are even greater; in Rome and Vienna, 8 times the domestic price was 12 times higher than in Stockholm. As Congressman said, the Parliament decided on 31 March to amend the budget for 2023, and according to the government's submission, the amount of the Rezségvédelmi Fund increased to HUF 2600 billion instead of the planned HUF 670 billion, which large companies have to pay from the significant extra profit. The energy sector is also involved in this. We can support families, local governments, central budgetary bodies, businesses, ecclesiastical and civil institutions from the Rezsave Fund. Moreover, international newspapers such as The New York Times have acknowledged that sanctions against Russia are not really working, and Brussels has basically launched a domino effect that has led to an increase in sanctions policy, energy crisis, inflation and food prices. We believe that there should be an immediate ceasefire and peace talks as soon as possible, and that is why we have also adopted the pro-peace declaration and resolution. Honourable Congressman, At last week's meeting, the government found that all resources were available while maintaining the retail reduction. I think this is a very good message, because the monthly HUF 181 thousand help is a huge sum; if you look at what it meant in six months, you could support the Hungarian families with up to one million HUF. In 2022 Hungary spent almost 6 percent of its GDP on public health protection, and we are ranked fourth in the EU ranking. The government is constantly watching how we can help in this extraordinary situation. A very good example of this is the government meeting last week. It was decided that if the undertakings and municipalities, churches and foundations of the former final asylum service had not entered into contracts by 31 December, they would automatically be placed in a category corresponding to the price at that time. For them, we will allow their contracts to include the current price level in the future. I think this is a huge help, it affects about 14-16,000 customers; for MVM, this means a loss of up to HUF 20 billion, but we believe that we want to provide this help. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We thank the Member and the Christian Democratic People's Party Group for their support so far, and we are asking for it in the future. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-04-11-91	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2023-04-11-92	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I can accept the answer, because from what you have said and what people are experiencing, you can see that the important criterion that is needed in energy policy is that predictability can be ensured by the government through these measures, even though there is no predictability in the world. However, this is based on the fact that our economic policy from 2010 has created the coverage and the necessary increase of the Renewal Fund. In view of all of this, it can be said that this system is an effective step, an effective antidote to energy poverty, and that we should remember the energy poverty in Hungary during the pre-2010 period because of the prices that were then released. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-04-11-93	Thank you very much, Congressman Aradski. Dear Parliament, Balázs Barkóczi, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. Where do they dare to do this to teachers? It's an address. Mr Balázs Barkóczi has the floor.
u2023-04-11-94	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Mr. Secretary. For over a year, you have not been able to deal with the crisis that you have caused in public education. You refused to raise your teachers' wages, took their right to strike, threatened them, and fired them. It is no wonder that they found themselves in the middle of a standing war, with you on one side and Hungarian teachers on the other side, Hungarian students and Hungarian parents on the other side. That's why they also prepared a law of vengeance called the Status Act, tailored to educators. I'll tell you why more and more people call him that. Your law of vengeance against teachers can increase the maximum working time of teachers from 8 hours a day to 12 hours a day, maximum weekly working hours from 32 hours a week to 48 hours a week. Your law of vengeance prohibits teachers from criticizing the state of public education in any form. In addition, your law of vengeance gives a significant portion of the powers of school directors to the school district directors, the Fidesz party soldiers. And your Vengeance Act, among other things, allows you to observe teachers, search their laptops, phones, and tablets for your own use. It is no wonder, then, that more than 2,000 teachers have already indicated, Mr Secretary of State, that under such conditions they refuse to sign the contract in connection with the new relationship. Dear Secretary of State, If it is true, and I think it is true that the future of the country can be seen in a school, then you are now at war against the future of Hungary. You are ruining it so that the Hungarian children are out of public education with a light-year lag compared to their European counterparts. You are destroying Hungary to be a losing country in the world, where the future is weak because of poor education. You imagine a Hungary where even the most talented child can be a trained worker, who is waiting for the newly built battery factories, but only until the early death of cancer. Therefore, both as a Member of Parliament and as a shadow minister for education, I must say that the law on revenge against teachers is nothing more than net treason. Dear Secretary of State, I ask you, where do they get the courage to work Hungarian teachers for play money 12 hours a day. Where do they find the courage to forbid them to express their opinion, to search their own laptops and their own phones? Dear Secretary of State, Would you sign such an employment contract? And if you could sign, can I ask you to bring your phone to my desk right now, so I can look at your personal messages, your photo album, and look at your browsing history? [[16.00]] Because if you don't, Mr. Secretary of State, that means that you will accept the Fidesz Vengeance Act tailored to the teachers. After that, I have only one question: where do you get the courage to do this to the Hungarian teachers? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for the DK benches.]]
u2023-04-11-95	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2023-04-11-96	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Minister of Shadows, Dear House, As opposed to you, we strive to ensure that teachers really get the prestige of the teaching profession in Hungary and everywhere else. This is why the government has decided to issue a bill for social consultation, which gives Hungarian teachers, Hungarian teachers, their own sectoral law, their own legal status. You know, it used to be the idea that everyone who is a public employee and not a government official could be a hospital worker, an educational worker, a social worker, a cultural worker, and many others working in the same framework. And we believe that, yes, the teaching profession has specialties, along which it is worth giving a self-reliance to this 170,000 people, which is adapted to the pedagogical activity. And we don't want to do this on our own, we want to do this with a very large wage increase. You, of course, took one month's wages from teachers, reduced their wages by 8 percent when we wrote 2008-2009, but we want to increase it; our plan is to increase the wages of teachers by 75 percent over a long two years. And besides, this law brings in an innovation. And the point of this innovation is that a teacher who puts extra performance on the table, who, say, does not teach 22 hours but has 26 hours; who organises several extracurricular sessions, who brings more students to the competition, who gives more students catching up opportunities to bring them at least to the average level, because they start from a more disadvantaged position, who tends more to their students, apparently tends to the talent, helps those who fall behind, they should have a higher salary, and they should also have higher wages for starters, both in absolute terms and in proportion. That's what you're against. What you have made, honourable Member, some of them are not true at all, and some of them are transferred from the Labour Code to this statute law. But what, on the other hand, is what you are doing, honourable Member, which your party president, your former Prime Minister, Ferenc Gyurcsány, has acknowledged? He said that you are dealing with the fact that, in Brussels, our own EU funds, which also serve as teachers' wages, do not arrive in Hungary. You don't have to lie, we were there, that's what we do. says Ferenc Gyurcsány that you are trying to prevent the full amount of the wage increase for Hungarian teachers from appearing in the teachers' accounts. A 10%, half of this year's wage increase has been advanced by the Hungarian government, but we would like to pay more than 10 percent of our EU funds to teachers. But your former prime minister says that for political reasons, it does not come to Hungary, and I quote, that it is only dressed in such a legal robe. Our extremely active MEPs say the President of DK is negotiating in terrible quantities and doing their job in Parliament and with the Commission. The work is being carried out to ensure that Hungarian teachers do not raise their wages by 21 percent or 25 percent this year, which is what they are working on. And he's proud to tell the public about this as a result, and he tells us that we don't have to lie, that we were there, that's what we do, that we work very hard to get these 27 milestones. How long have you been working on this? Who's working on this? Have you been to Brussels? Did you tell them not to use higher resources to raise the wages of teachers? Who were involved in these negotiations? When did they decide? When Klára Dobrev met with the teachers' union during the campaign, did she say that she was working as an MEP for what her husband has just said to the public? So there won't be money for a higher-value teacher's wage increase? [[Kálmán Olga: Don't steal it!]] So there'll be only 10 percent of the budget? Did he tell them to their faces like that? [[Kálmán Olga: You shouldn't steal it.]] Did you tell them that they are the ones working in Brussels so that there will not be a higher teacher's wage increase, honourable Member? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We too look forward to answering these questions. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-04-11-97	Thank you very much. I'll ask the congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2023-04-11-98	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. I can't accept the answer, simply because you're not telling the truth. Let's line it up. He says the bill was issued for social consultation. Trade unions were given an opinion on 2 March and had to deliver an opinion on 10 March, giving eight days to comment on the draft law. Do you think this is a social consultation? Are you talking about EU money not coming? [[Bence Rétvári: Yes!]] Dear Secretary of State, EU Commissioner for Employment and Social Affairs Nicolas Schmit said that the EU funds for teachers' wage increases are available to Hungary, since the "Human Resources Development Operational Programme Plus" is not affected by spring suspensions. [[Bence Rétvári: Send him!]] So what is missing? Political will. And what do we do? Is that what you're asking? For example, we have calculated that a 45 per cent basic wage increase and not a extra wage increase, with which you can trick, but a basic wage increase for educators, would cover a double of VAT revenue at 16.5% inflation; not 27 per cent inflation, which you have done, but 16.5. What's missing now? Political will. Shame on you! Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for the DK benches.]]
u2023-04-11-99	Thank you very much. The congressman didn't accept the answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our sitting today. Dear Parliament, Ander Balázs, a representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Construction and Transport:. This is a serious mistake. How's the M6 case? It's an address. Congressman Ander Balázs has the floor.
u2023-04-11-100	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Cross-governmental cooperation is also a stepchild of current government policy in South Transdanubia, which has been reduced to a cumulative situation. [[Sic!]] All they want to do is hunt. [[Bence Rétvári: Pulverized?]] What proves that? For example, sad infrastructure delays such as the amazing condition of road 68, road 6 between Pécs and Barcs also deteriorated. Somehow, before the elections, they always show up, they make the big promises, and then they embezzle those promises. For example, the history of the Danube Bridge in Mohács can be inserted into this line. Imagine, in 1940, the then power was told by citizens not to make promises, not to deceive them, but to carry them out quite simply. By the way, they hope that this bridge will finally be created, and that it will serve the happiness of the South Transdanubia and of all Hungarian citizens there. Then there's another story: the symbolic case of the M6 motorway. You think that this will be what will succeed in catching up the county of Baranya, and indeed, it is true that if this road link between Croatia and Hungary were to be established, it might be a great success for the region. By the way, a veterinary horse is the construction of this highway. We also remember things before 2010, the freeway built in the PPP construction, where, in practice, even under the mole-tourists, expensive tunnels were drilled. It was an amazing story. But what do we see now? Strabag is building the Danube Asphalt, which is owned by László Szíjj, Minister of the Szijjártó yachting László Szíyj. Well, there are other problems beyond the contractors: the terrible price. On the Hungarian side of the border, a kilometer of motorways from the same motorway costs 4.4 billion forints, the Croatians can solve this with just 1 billion forints. And when our first politician in the county of Baranya Schwarcz-Kiefer Patrik, from Jobbik, pointed out this knife-opening price difference, he also went to the Danube Asphalt, and went to Vienna to get some kind of meaningful answer, unfortunately he didn't get it; the fact is that not only on the side of the contractor, but also on the side of the government! However, we here in the community of Jobbik-Conservatives believe that in a normal country there would be a meaningful answer, so I look forward to a rational explanation from the Secretary of State about how the shame of four times the cost of the motorway here can occur. Also, there was another scandalum: quite simply, they missed 200 meters of freeway design. Who's responsible for this? And how late will it be? [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes.]] I look forward to your substantive answers. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2023-04-11-101	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State Bálint the Great. [[Bálint the Great rises to speak, but his microphone doesn't work.]] The mike, please. Is your card in? [[The mike's on.]]
u2023-04-11-102	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, You, of course, have the right to make picturing remarks. Last year, if I remember correctly, this role was played by Jobbik, and it was the result: the voters expressed their views in Baranya as well. [[16.10]] As regards the specific issues, the Croatian terrain may be similar, but it would not have hurt to examine the technical content. You have not paid enough attention to this, honourable Member, but, no matter what, Transparency International has done this. I'm sure you're familiar with the organization, and you and your new policy friends often refer to this organization. Well, Transparency International followed the procurement you referred to from the first document to the last and found no problems. As regards the missing section, the failure of the company entrusted with the operation was detected by the public bodies and public procurement was declared. Allow me, Congressman, to note that there is little more tangible evidence of the corruption rampage of socialist governments than the M6 motorway, the 4 metro, which is on the trail of what is already visible from Brussels. And you will rise up and give us an example of this era and this period and this investment. I'm sorry, Congressman, but this is more than impertinence and hypocrisy. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Learn to understand words someday!]] Finally, let me also say that between 2010 and 2023 308 kilometers of roads were renovated or built in Baranya for HUF 37.7 billion, and the ongoing M6 investment will be worth nearly HUF 122 billion, which is a very significant development not only for Baranya, but also for the whole country. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-11-103	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Bálint the Great. I ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2023-04-11-104	Mr. Secretary, forgive me, but that was not an exhaustive and satisfactory response, so I cannot accept it. South Transdanubia has become one of the poorest regions of the European Union. Only one figure: 15 percent of the population has disappeared from the city of Pécs since the change of regime. There is a reason for this, namely that they have turned this region into a kind of logistics and transport black hole on the map of our country. You spoke here about the previous governments, and I also spoke of them with criticism, and the fact is that you have done nothing, let's say, to review PPP schemes. I can tell you more: Who is Peter Szijjártó's great friend? Maybe it's like Mr. Fox had something to do with all this crap. So, I'm asking you very nicely, don't beat these crimes to the Jobbik-Conservatives. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I can't accept the answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Dr. Brenner Koloman: The truth hurts!]]
u2023-04-11-105	Thank you. The congressman didn't accept the answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our sitting today. Dear Parliament, István Szabadi, representative of Mi Hazank, has submitted an interview to the Minister of Finance: why do not you deal with more important issues than moving to the Buda Castle in a war emergency? It's an address. Congressman István Szabadi has the floor.
u2023-04-11-106	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear House, In 2015, the government decided to move the Ministry of Finance back to the Castle in Buda, the former Hungarian Royal Ministry of Finance. The monument-protected building is located in the immediate vicinity of the Matthias Church, at the number 6 of the Holy Trinity Square. Within the framework of the project, the facade and roof reconstruction of the building complex and the interior design of the building providing modern office working conditions are based on the plans of Sándor Fellner in 1903. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Ladies and gentlemen, The reconstruction and renovation of the Buda Castle is supported by the Mi Hazank Movement. In fact, our country considers this project, the renovation important, but we cannot and do not want to leave the waste of time and thus the dispersal of public money unspoken. The procurement procedures related to the execution are the West Hungária Bau Kft., which belongs to Attila Paár's interest in the 50th richest Hungarians. and Garage Kft., owned by Zoltán Szabó, the former college roommate of the Minister. It was won by its consortium. By 2020, they received HUF 9 billion net for demolition, facade, roofing and reconstruction work. During the Covid epidemic, he received an additional HUF 54.3 billion commission for the planning and execution of the second phase of rehabilitation. The contract amount has now increased to HUF 56.5 billion net. The deadline for carrying out the investment was originally 31 December 2017. According to the latest contract amendment, the Ministry of Finance can move into the building at the beginning of 2024. The implementation of the project appears to take a total of eight years at the usual pace of public investment. On the oral question of 10 October last year, I received the answer from Deputy Minister András Tállai that, while there is a war going on next door, why I am not dealing with more important issues, such as the energy crisis, rather than with requests for data in the public interest regarding ministerial reports. Then I will ask you and look forward to your reply, Mr Secretary of State, as to why, after the war started, the relocation of the Ministry of Finance has not been reviewed, why the amount has not been used to deal with the energy crisis, and why, according to the budget law of 2023, the placement of 1758 main ministerial workers will cost taxpayers a total of HUF 67 billion. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-04-11-107	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Deputy Minister András Tállai responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2023-04-11-108	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I trust that there is no discussion between us that the Castle of Buda is a part of Hungary, Europe and the world's extremely valuable built and cultural heritage, a symbolic location of the unity of the nation, for which we are jointly responsible. As you know, in the more than 750 years of the castle, the periods of construction and destruction, creation and destruction have changed. Within the framework of the National Hausmann Program, the government aims to open a new era in the rebirth of the part of the city, in the preservation of monuments and through this the historical heritage. The aim of the developments is to return the castle to the Hungarian people again and to form a part of the city that is worthy of the world heritage rank, where it is worth visiting again and again, where it is good to live, where it is worth spending longer time, because it is homey, cozy and always welcomes visitors with new experiences. The original building of the Ministry of Finance, whose condition deteriorated to a critical level after decades of communism, is also being renewed. The government therefore decided not to let the monument be completely destroyed, but to save it. With the renovation, the building regains its original light and function, faithfully reflecting Sándor Fellner's original plans and intentions. László Lukács, then Minister for Finance [[Dr. László György Lukács: Europe's largest panamist...]] indicates this day as an important event, the date of the handover. The newly transferred building was both beautiful and spectacular, as well as practical. At the same time, it had large city aesthetic values and beautiful interiors, as well as working conditions for everyday operation. The representation was provided by the wing or by the main wing with a view to the Trinity Square. This is where the elegant reception halls were placed, with the most decorated part of the interior training. Unfortunately, during World War II, all this was seriously damaged. Honourable Congressman, I'm a little surprised by your speech, too, because if you'd known the opinion of your party president, you wouldn't have told me about this interpellation. László Toroczkai, your group leader, said the following about the reconstruction of the Buda Castle: Budapest can benefit a great deal from both tourism and national self-consciousness. This is the opinion of your party president on the renovation of the Buda Castle. As far as the Ministry of Finance's building is concerned, it did start in 2015, and you know that the worst investment is the abandoned investment. I think the government can't make that mistake. [[16.20]] Over the past years, the government has spent its costs on the works in a proportionate manner, in accordance with public procurement rules, by selecting the cheapest and best offers. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-04-11-109	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman if he'll take the answer. You have the floor.
u2023-04-11-110	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I cannot accept the answer, on the one hand, because I said strongly in my speech that the Mi Hazank Movement supports the renovation and reconstruction of the Castle in Buda, but we cannot accept the corruption and the delay that we spend public money with, just because Hungarian people there have not only to support the investment themselves, but also have to pay for its coordination for years. For example, in 2017 the Ministry of Finance established PM-SIZER6 Nonprofit Kft., which reported that it spent some HUF 1.3 billion on operating expenses by 2021. So once again, the Hungarian Movement supports the reconstruction and renovation of the Buda Castle, but we cannot support the public spending and corruption, the delay that surrounds it. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-04-11-111	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman did not accept the Deputy Minister's reply. I would like to inform you that a decision will be taken in accordance with our agreed agenda today. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the interpellation trial. Now we're going to talk about immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Kálmán Olga, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What do you know? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2023-04-11-112	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, Well, the first dominoes fell in line. Your former Secretary of State, charged with corruption by one of your ministers, violated the law of fidesz silence. Pál Völner would also bring his former bosses Judit Varga, László Trócsányi and other state ministers to justice. I translate: Pál Völner refuses to take the blame alone in the worst corruption scandal in recent decades. Pál Völner refuses to pretend that Judit Varga and László Trócsányi knew and made an alliance with the leader of the Hungarian executives, György Schadl, without his consent, to destroy the Hungarian people who were drifting into unpaid debts, and also your voters, Prime Minister. According to the prosecution's suspicion, the Hungarian people were entrusted by the Völner-Schadl pair to bailiffs who took positions with high profits for money. This money was wandering up and down, it may have come into politician's pockets, and we may also know that it could have been given to a mysterious Toni, whom Paul Völner surely knows which of his acquaintances named Antal by that name. Sooner or later, Völner will talk. Judit Varga's former Secretary of State may have a thorough knowledge of the extent to which the corruption of executors is reaching. So I ask Prime Minister: did you know about the corrupt practices of Pál Völner, Judit Varga and the executives? Did you know what was going on at the Justice Department? Or are you saying that without your knowledge and your ministers, you have appointed executors for bribes who then embarrassed the Hungarian people? If that's what you're saying, then who's in charge of your government? Thank you for your answer. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2023-04-11-113	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2023-04-11-114	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I can answer the question briefly as to who controls my government. I can say that my government is the Government of Hungary, and I am in charge of the operation of the government on behalf of the Hungarian people. The decisions of this government are based on clear principles. The first and most important principle is that legislation applies to everyone. I'm glad the D.A.'s office is doing its job, although you guys are always questioning that. If there is any question about the specific case, after a criminal case is pending, feel free to contact the Attorney General. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-04-11-115	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I'll give you the floor in return. Here you go.
u2023-04-11-116	Prime Minister, I have asked a simple question to be decided, but it seems that the answer has failed to be jumped, but I already knew that straight speech is not one of his virtues. [[Delight and murmur in the pro-government benches.]] No matter how much you protect your people, you won't be able to take this very, very dark matter off your government, your party, or yourself. No one now believes that the executives' business could have been and done without Minister Judit Varga's knowledge, as they did in the Ministry, to pre-defatulate executive appointments with such mafia methods, and how much money has migrated here from pocket to pocket, we still don't know that, but we will find out. However, an important question still awaits an answer that we have not been able to find out from you: did you know about this, Prime Minister? Did you know that your government's justice department has a complete criminal organization? Both responses are serious. If you say you didn't know, it's serious too. If you say you knew, then you've just become a part of this criminal organization, that you're still defending the munter's honor. Thank you.
u2023-04-11-117	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. You have the floor, Prime Minister.
u2023-04-11-118	I've known for a long time that these are not the immediate questions, but the hour of immediate insults. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches. Kálmán Olga: The truth hurts!]] What's going on here. I would like to remind you that every Member of Parliament, every member of the government and the head of the government take an oath when taking office. It's part of the vows that I keep the laws and keep them. That means I've done my job, and that's how I'm going to do it in the future. Thank you for your interest. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-04-11-119	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Dávid Bedő, Ferenc Gelencsér, Szabolcs Szabó and Kristóf Márton Tompos, representatives of Momentum [[Interviews from the ranks of Fidesz: But many! Deterioration from the pro-government benches.]] to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: It's an address. [[Novák Előd: Hold hands! Deterioration in the pro-government benches. Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] The question is also raised on behalf of your fellow Members, Mr Ferenc Gelencsér. You have the floor.
u2023-04-11-120	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, in your 35-year political career, you have gone through the full range of political spectrum, Secretary of State, Vice President of the Liberal Internationale, Civilian Conservative, and now a street warrior has become a peace pigeon, only God knows what he really represents. For the past 35 years, perhaps there has been only one thing constant: anticommunism and folding it. There are few things that we agree on, but perhaps we do agree that those who served the communist regime before the change of regime cannot fill public positions in Hungary. [[Rumors from the pro-government ranks. Gergely Gulyás: You're talking about your friends!]] The MSZMP was the party that led the revolution with János Kádár with the help of Soviet tanks. According to one of your ministers, János Lázár, who was a member of the Hungarian Socialist Workers' Party, he swore until 1989 to prevent the freedom and self-determination of Hungarians. I have to agree with János Lázár, who was a member of the MSZMP, was a minister of an occupying power. I respectfully ask Prime Minister that it is possible that former MSZMP members will be present in the fifth Orbán government, as in the past. Where's your infamous anti-communism? Thank you. [[A round of applause from Momentum. Nacsa Lőrinc: But there is still time! There's time! Deterioration from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-04-11-121	Thank you. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. You have the floor, Prime Minister. [[Noise. It's ringing.]]
u2023-04-11-122	Thank you very much for your interest, honourable Member. Just for the record, I don't know that I've ever had a political career. I'm asking you to take this into account. But there is a service behind me, indeed, more than 30 years. In our perception, there is a significant difference between career and service. Why are we working? Why should we do our job? Because we were involved in politics 30 or so years ago. We were freedom fighters, we were freedom fighters, and that is still the most important thing for us today. Today, most of all, we must fight for the independence and sovereignty of our country against all external forces and their internal agents. I'm used to putting you on the list. As far as history lesson is concerned, because if I understand it correctly, your interest is historical, I suggest you contact your alliances who can give you valuable information firsthand in this case, the case of the former MSZMP and the Communist Party. Thank you very much. [[Delight and applause in the pro-golden benches.]] [[16.30]]
u2023-04-11-123	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I'll give you the floor in return. Here you go.
u2023-04-11-124	I had hoped that Prime Minister would not try to turn me aside like this, but to answer my question. Everyone knows that the opposition alliance was born because you distorted the electoral law. [[Defiance and interrogation in the pro-government ranks.]] We can be scolded because we have joined forces with your former party associates, because Ferenc Gyurcsány, just like you, is an ex-KIS Secretary. Your argument is also surprising, since your coalition partner confirmed your former MSZMP member, Katalin Szili. But then let's see who you've joined forces with and who you've put in public positions as Prime Minister of Hungary. Minister of Interior Sándor Pintér, former MSZMP member, Communist; István Stumpf Government Commissioner, former MSZMP member, Communist [[Interjection in the pro-government ranks: Ferike!]] Mr János Fónagy State Secretary, former MSZMP member, Communist; András Tállai, former MSZMP member, State Secretary, Communist [[Intercoms in the pro-government ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] ; György Matolcsy, President of the Hungarian National Bank, former MSZMP member, Communist. How can these people be in public power in Hungary in 2023? Thank you.
u2023-04-11-125	Dear Parliament, Please remain calm. Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2023-04-11-126	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Although the one-minute rejoinder is not the most appropriate genre to discuss a serious issue that my fellow Member has raised here, I would just like to say briefly that everyone mentioned from among the members of the government is respectable people and I expect him to speak with due respect about them. That tone is unacceptable. These people you're talking about, they've all done a lot more for their country than you're gonna do your whole life. [[Intercoms in the pro-government ranks: That's right! That's right! Applause in the pro-government ranks.]] It's true that by doing more than you've ever done in your life, we haven't said so much about you. But it's not my job to speak for the Allies, because I'm not your ally, but I say softly that youth here, youth there, if one joins with one another and starts in an alliance, let me hold it as an unconventional alliance, that man doesn't behave this way. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-04-11-127	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Zita Gurmai, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] : Mr. Prime Minister! Are you serious? 'Cause it'd be a joke. It's an address. You have the floor.
u2023-04-11-128	Mr. Prime Minister, We have very little in common, but beyond the increasingly obvious physical similarity, there is one thing [[Defiance.]] In which we are certainly the same: we are both parents, and as parents, nothing is more important in private life, nothing is more forward than the present and future of our children, grandchildren. But when you or a member of your government say to a opposition politician that he is a traitor and pro-war, he basically says that any one of us would risk the safety of his family, child and grandson. Are you serious? Honestly, do you really think any of us in a war would have their son, daughter or grandson killed? Are we pro-war because, instead of your declaration, we supported the United Nations Declaration of Peace, adopted by three quarters of the world's countries? But you supported it, because it was voted in favour, and it was even tabled, and it was only voted against at home in Parliament. Are we pro-war because we supported EU sanctions against aggression against Russia? But you agree with them, because they voted for it. No, we're not pro-war. You and your government's communications team are trying to bake this on us. Prime Minister! You're talking about peace, while you're doing the opposite: you're creating internal tension, and you're pushing people against each other, because this rhetoric is spreading, and unfortunately, this hate speech has left the political scene, and you're going down into society, where people are getting more aggressive with our non-conscious fellows who want to live in a different way. Before last week's agenda, I asked the pro-government representatives not to be part of a rhetoric that would turn Hungarian people against Hungarian people. Now I'm asking you to do the same, and I'm asking you this: when do you want to end the government communication that makes us opposition politicians false, and that makes us, as well as the opposition voters, an enemy to be destroyed? Thank you. [[Kálmán Olga applauds.]]
u2023-04-11-129	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2023-04-11-130	Thank you very much. I think we're talking about something serious again. If I understand the Congresswoman correctly, you object to me personally calling you pro-war; we are pro-peace and you are pro-war. And as I understand it, you find that offensive, perhaps even calling it a hate speech. I don't agree with that, because I think you're really pro-war. So all I do is talk about the situation we're in. There is a Russian-Ukrainian war. There are two kinds of views on this. One is what we represent, and what sounds like an immediate ceasefire, and the peace talks should begin as soon as possible. We regard this as a pro-peace position. That is why we are not involved in any act that prolongs the war. We don't carry guns, for example. And there's another point, and I thought it was yours. I didn't think they'd be ashamed of it or see it as an insult, so I thought they'd do it with a good conscience. Your position is that the only way to end this war is to continue the war until someone wins, that's your position. Therefore, you would carry a weapon, you would support the steps that prolong the war, and you would hope that the escalation of war, the extension of war, would bring a victory on one side, and that peace would be achieved. I do not want to consider this position morally, and I simply do not see it as a reasonable position. It's one of those wars, the forces of the opposing parties look like this war won't be won by either side. Therefore, the only way to prevent further loss of lives is to call for an immediate ceasefire and to begin peace talks. All other political options will lead to the continuation of the war, to more human sacrifice. In my opinion, you are taking this position if you know the consequences of this, if you understand the consistency of this, if you do not. Therefore, I must continue to consider your position a pro-war position. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-11-131	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I'll give you the floor in return, Congresswoman.
u2023-04-11-132	Prime Minister, just because a statement is repeated loudly and constantly does not make it true at all. It's obvious that in the outburst media, he keeps saying that we oppositionists are on the side of war, but that's just not true. I repeat once again: this untruth was invented by propaganda to have something to talk about, to have something to distract attention from. It was Bertalan Tóth who presented the peace declaration, which is the same word for word as the UN declaration of peace. It was that the community of the countries of the world condemns the Russian aggressor in this war. You guys out there didn't just vote for it, but there were distributors, and compared to that, you were just voted off at home. Then who is the pro-war, Prime Minister? The political hate speech you are using and filled with false claims is really leaking into society, I say this as a parent. Animosity and increasingly violent forms of behavior appear in his footsteps. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This means that it can be measured in statistics that last year, for example, the number of child offenders increased by 33 percent among our children. Now, answer that.
u2023-04-11-133	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Thank you, we're over the time frame. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. You have the floor, Prime Minister.
u2023-04-11-134	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Allow me to take your comment seriously, and if I understand it correctly, this is an application form for the peace camp. If our fellow Member Gelencsér gives you permission to do so, given his past, then you are welcome in the peace camp. [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]] In any case, I'd like to reiterate that whoever carries a weapon is not pro-peace. [[Dr. Gurmai Zita: Yes!]] Anyone who claims that war must continue is not pro-peace. It is a pro-peaceist who does not carry a weapon and who says that an immediate ceasefire must be declared in order for peace negotiations to begin. This is not only said to us by the general human and mental considerations, but also by our national interests. This war is next door, it's a dangerous war. We'll be safe when it's over. [[Dr. Gurmai Zita: If Putin retires!]] If it can't end, we'll be safe if it breaks. A break means there's a ceasefire. Everything's better than what's happening right now. It is in Hungarian national interest to have a ceasefire and peace talks as soon as possible. Welcome to the peace camp. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[16.40]]
u2023-04-11-135	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Brenner Koloman and László György Lukács, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Prime Minister? It's an address. Mr László György Lukács has the floor.
u2023-04-11-136	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. Prime Minister, Undoubtedly, it was one of the most interesting legislative acts of the past period, what happened to the Hungarian Medical Chamber. The mandatory membership was terminated in 24 hours, but the doctors confirmed that it was right or wrong. Two thirds of them, even by your standards, have decided to remain a member of the Chamber. But I don't want to talk about the Medical Chamber and ask you about a larger community, the community of entrepreneurs. In the last few days, I have contacted László Parragh, President of the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry with an open letter about what he thinks of his own, behind or behind him, membership of entrepreneurs and compulsory membership there, and about the HUF 5 thousand contribution that must be paid every year. I did this because I see that the Chamber of László Parragh does not provide the interests of the entrepreneurs and the help they need, does not protect his interests, and collects that 5 thousand forints essentially as a pale one, but the Chamber does not give a meaningful job in return. In fact, the situation is worse than that, because László Parragh recently acknowledged as his own success at an event, perhaps with you, that, in essence, the elimination of the kata-law situation and the limitation of the level of the smallest businesses, which could do their job with a small tax burden, with a small administration, were excluded from this favourable relationship. So in order not to say it ourselves and not to ask us politicians what to do with businesses, I think it is worth asking the members. So I ask the Prime Minister, he would support whether there should be a referendum on him, or we should ask the Chamber itself, so that the compulsory membership of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry will remain, or that the contribution of HUF 5 thousand will be abolished. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2023-04-11-137	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2023-04-11-138	Dear fellow Member, The situation appears to be that the chamber is only competent in its internal affairs. I understand that you would like the government to act on the internal affairs of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, but unfortunately, there is no way to do that, so I must reject your request. With this request, please contact President Parragh, because the Chamber's elected leaders are competent in its internal affairs. The fact that the Hungarian government generally accepts chambers as partners does not change that, we are happy to cooperate with them, we are happy to agree and we are happy to make economic decisions together. You said you weren't talking about the Medical Chamber, but you were talking about it, so if you'll allow me, I'm forced to clarify my position on the Medical Chamber for at least a few sentences. First of all, we have to thank the Medical Chamber. One of the most significant changes in the past period has been what we agreed with the Medical Chamber, and we have implemented it together. If someone had said a few years ago that we would still be living in a country where there would be no gratuity money, we might have laughed at it. Compared to this, there is legislation today, and I even think that it is an encouraging legal practice, which has been used to drive gratuity money out of the Hungarian health system. I couldn't have done this without the Medical Chamber. So we should thank them for that. We will be happy to cooperate with them in the future. We don't want to interfere with the medical board's affairs. And we didn't mind at all the fact that the Medical Chamber had a mandatory membership system, because there are chambers where there are compulsory membership arrangements. We can accept that. In one case, we do not accept and change if there is a suspicion that the legal possibility of compulsory membership will be used by chamber members for pressure, i.e. abuse of power. We will not cease the Chamber, because we have no right or intention to do so, but in this case we must abolish the compulsory membership. That's what happened to the Medical Chamber. Otherwise, we wish the Medical Chamber good luck, successful professional work and further partnership in cooperation with the government. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-11-139	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I'll give you the floor in return, Congressman.
u2023-04-11-140	Prime Minister, I suggest you take the case of a review of mandatory membership even when a chamber does not do the work that chamber members expect of it. This is the case with the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. The fact is that the members feel, in essence, and in this they agree, that their representation is inadequate. But in order not to learn from what we think, it would be worth introducing the same model that you applied to the Medical Chamber: cancel the mandatory membership and show membership, show that there is a two-thirds mandate behind it, that businesses want to stay there and want to be members. The Jobbik-Conservatives take the position on the side of businesses that they are free to decide about accession. We do not consider mandatory sharks to be correct, such as 5,000 forints, even if it is only a symbolic amount. We believe that Hungary should be a simple and safe business, and we can support this. My question remains, Prime Minister, how can you support the decision of the members to remain members of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2023-04-11-141	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2023-04-11-142	I think they're the only ones who can decide on this. If the members of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry gather together, decide that they want to operate differently than before, then we have one thing to do: we will take note of that. But we can't make that decision for them. That's for the chamber members to decide. That they're going to say magic or charm is not for the government, it's for the chamber members alone. However, speaking of the Chamber, I would also like to mention, in addition to the Medical Chamber, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which has given the government a great deal of help and, through the government, the whole country in this very difficult situation, when it sees the interest rates on which the Hungarian credit market works and does not work. The most promising and successful program that runs today is the programme of the Hungarian government run with Kavos, which is a business and lending programme and is operated, supervised and controlled by the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Without this, Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises would be in even greater trouble, so I would like to thank the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry for their cooperation. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-11-143	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Foreman Novak, representative of our country, A/3548. He withdrew his request to present an immediate question. Dear Parliament, The President of the National Bank of Hungary, President of Hungary, President of Hungary, wants to ask an immediate question: why do women raised with 3 children receive 20% lower pensions than their childless peers? It's an address. Due to the absence of the President of the National Bank of Hungary, Vice-President Barnabas Virág gave the right to reply. I would like to ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the President of the National Bank for his answer personally.
u2023-04-11-144	Thank you, Mr. President, but I would like a personal answer.
u2023-04-11-145	I would like to inform Mr President that he will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, László Toroczkai, representative of Mi Hazank, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "When will we stop the skinning? Is there any reform in the enforcement and justice system? It's an address. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2023-04-11-146	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, The last time I was able to ask a question here and exchange ideas on this subject, Prime Minister said that we should make our proposals on the enforcement system and the executive staff, and then perhaps the government will decide, Prime Minister, that we can grind it in a mill. Well, we've made our suggestions. In the 1990s, in 1994 the Hungarian politician decided to make the executive profession profit-oriented in Hungary, and from then on he developed a system of mafias across governments, Balliberal and Fidesz governments, along with notaries, politicians and government members, and this enforcement system, together with all other organisations like him, has since continued to undermine Hungarians and Hungarian citizens. Obviously, Prime Minister, the press scandal that has been going on for some time, and the fact that György Schadl, President of the Executive Board, has been under arrest for a year and a half has not been done by the government. You really don't feel it, Prime Minister, that it's burning on you, that it's burning on the government, that it's burning on Fidesz? You really don't feel like something should be done? As the Prime Minister has asked, we have made our proposals, but in the Committee on Justice, the Fideszes-KDNP MPs voted against our initiative on the non-profit enforcement system. I would add that the representative of the Democratic Coalition has withdrawn, so there has been a coalition between Fidesz and DK, because together they sabotaged the proposal of the Hungarian Movement, while the Balliberal Members are very active in this matter, as if the enforcement system hadn't worked in the same mafia before 2010. So my question, Prime Minister, is when are you going to do something, when does the government want to act on this matter? [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]] [[16.50]]
u2023-04-11-147	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2023-04-11-148	Congressman, if you don't mind, there were some intermediate half-phrases I can't ignore. I don't think it's right for politicians to be called mobsters from their wrists, but that's something you learn to live with in 30 years. But I ask with great respect that other groups of even higher prestige should not be involved in this situation. So to say that it is a notary mafia is such a rude insult to an entire professional group, which cannot be allowed in general, and certainly not in the Hungarian Parliament. So, on behalf of the notaries, whom I may not be able to know personally, but on behalf of notaries, I must ask you, on behalf of all of us, that you make an entire occupational group look like a criminal. Just because it burns on us doesn't mean it's the opposite. Well, we have been accused of not applying the same legislation to everyone in Hungary all the time. I see the opposite. No one is happy about such a case, and it is bad enough that such things can happen, but no one can doubt that the prosecution is acting as it should, and that the law applies equally to everyone, even if it is a State Secretary, even if it is an elected executive chamber official; it applies equally to everyone. So for our part, I say once again, we are not happy at all that we have to deal with such issues, and that is a big problem, that we have abused opportunities by state leaders, but it is certain that the laws apply to them as to anyone else, and this case clearly shows to all of Hungary what kind of spiritual foundation we are on. As far as your proposal is concerned, we would have liked to have accepted it, but you're making a proposal, choosing a position as a starting point, which is very difficult to agree on afterwards, because you're proposing a non-profit solution. I don't think this is gonna work. But I don't want to talk you out of this, so I encourage the Justice Department, I encourage the Justice Committee of Parliament, and I urge you to continue to agree on what better ways we can find to regulate the executive chamber than we do today. For us, the nonprofit starting point does not seem to be a welcome start, but we are ready for further discussions. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-11-149	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. In return, I'll give the floor to the leader of the group. Here you go.
u2023-04-11-150	I am sad to see, Prime Minister, that you really do not want to take any real action in this matter, because the Prime Minister said the same thing the other day. We have made the proposal, and these proposals have been swept away. Therefore, I will be preparing for the next opportunity, when we will be able to ask the Prime Minister a question like this, it will be about drilled wells, and I would like to say in advance that the Prime Minister will not begin to reply by chance without specifying exactly the subject. This year, at the end of 2023, the moratorium on drilled wells expires, and you are rightly concerned that hundreds of thousands of Hungarians are rightly afraid of what has already happened in Belgium, that during registration they said they would not have to pay, and now they are installing water clocks in Belgium. The country is rightfully afraid of this. That's what I'm going to talk about next, and we're going to continue our fight with the executive mafia, because I don't see the government as a partner in revealing this whole case. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-04-11-151	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2023-04-11-152	I do not take the liberty, my honourable fellow Member, to consider your proposal good or bad. I would like to use another term: the proposal that you have made for the operation of the executive chamber does not seem viable is not working. I don't dispute the good intentions behind it either, but I don't think this industry can be operated on a non-profit basis. But we are ready to continue this debate. Ideavart is on another case, if I understand correctly. [[László Toroczkai: That's right, deliberately!]] 'Cause the executive chamber has to do with the wells only if we throw them in, right? [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] But it's not supposed to be an organic relationship, so that's another question, I understand. [[Dr. László György Lukács: When the money pump is being operated! Intercoms from the ranks of our country.]] As far as the wells are concerned, I can tell you there. [[A statement from the opposition.]] You're not going to find someone more radical than me in Parliament, so you can count on me. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-11-153	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, Imre András Jámbor and Bence Tordai, representatives of the Dialogue, want to ask the Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister an immediate question: what is going on here? It's an address. Mr. András Imre Jámbor has the floor. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2023-04-11-154	Thank you for the floor. Minister, if I may call you that, Toni, in the case file on the executive mafia, in the various investigative documents, your nickname occurs quite often, for example when Schádl [[Sic!]] George and his master are talking about how hard it is for their good friend, the Toni, to suffer as a minister when they attack him. Unfortunately, I don't know anyone named Toni in the government or a man named Toni. [[János Lázár: So am I!]] So it's hard for me to think about anything other than you. I am thinking of this because it is in the investigative documents about Barbara, Toni, and Adam in connection with another conversation. Your wife's name is Barbara, and her chief of staff is Adam the Great, whose name is Schádl. [[Sic!]] [[Sic!]] György, at the University of Pécs, handled all kinds of cases in law school, such as not having to go to an exam and get the ticket. But we also know that Schádl (sic!) George had access to the Carmelite monastery and had access to your ministry, where according to the investigative documents he conducted all sorts of negotiations. What we're seeing in the investigative documents doesn't seem to have anything to do with your executors' work. So my question in the first round would be how you relate to Schádl. [[Sic!]] [[Sic!]] George. I would ask you to clarify what you and Schádl are (sic!) It's George's connection. It would also be good to clarify the relationship between the Fidesz MEPs and the enforcement mafia, as several colleagues of the Ministry of Justice have given testimony, mentioning the names of the Fidesz Members, that they have been involved in the corrupt process of selecting executives. And my other question would be if the Prime Minister had already mentioned the service in this, and I agree perfectly with him that our work is about the service. [[Máté Kocsis intervenes.]] That there are hundreds of thousands of people here who have spent the last 30 years [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] The executors have been hurt. I ask you to do three things: nationalise implementation on the one hand [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] (The president bell rings) and introduce a new enforcement law instead of the law...
u2023-04-11-155	Thank you, Congressman...
u2023-04-11-156	... which was written by those who are now indicted. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2023-04-11-157	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Antal Rogán. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2023-04-11-158	Honourable Congressman, I don't know if Mr. Schadl and Mr. Schádl were the same person, or we can simply see a specific way of pronunciation. I can assure you one thing: I am neither at liberty to know nor at all to know, nor in the future. So I can answer your question openly, clearly and simply. As far as this particular logic is concerned, as you are saying here, what I can say is that from what the left-wing Members have said here, we have learned how you think justice should work: it should work so that if you see a newspaper article that you like, you should be prosecuted immediately and, if possible, a judgment should be given within a few days. That's how justice worked in the 1950s, honourable Member. I know that you would like to return to this, but today there is a rule of law in Hungary, and in the framework of the rule of law, justice works by examining every single claim, every suggestion, by the competent authorities, in this case the prosecution, the prosecution. And here you asked the prosecution representative at least five times, who made it clear that, by the way, any suspected case in this case was investigated, investigated, and where, by the way, any suspected violation of law was suspected, and where necessary proceedings were initiated where it did not arise, of course, no such case was initiated. Accordingly, we are talking about a closed investigation here, honourable Member. As far as my colleagues are concerned, I can tell you that I am not interested in the opinion of the Dialogue there, because the voters have already made a decision on this matter once, and in the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister, the letter of recommendation of the Dialogue does not represent any advantage in terms of recording, perhaps rather a disadvantage. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-11-159	I thank the Minister for his reply. I'll give you the floor in a minute.
u2023-04-11-160	The thing is, it's not about newspaper articles, it's about the facts in the investigative material, it's about wiretaps. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] That these are the ones that make statements. I didn't accuse you. I asked you to come clean. Instead, he said he'd never met these people, but he didn't say anything about what his former chief of staff had to do with it, and it's very strange to me that these people use your nickname a lot of times, in relation to all kinds of businesses, they say they've met you or met your wife or your chief of staff, and you say you've never seen these people. [[17.00]] Yes, we believe that justice in Hungary is not working properly, and I think that is a very big problem. I've been looking at a lot of enforcement cases over the past 12 years as a journalist and a politician, and when people are being kicked out of their homes without any legality, I really think that justice is not working well. What I'm sorry about is that Minister, who is considered the second most powerful man in the country, couldn't say anything about it. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] To the people who have been eliminated by the executor's mafia, how they help.
u2023-04-11-161	Thank you, Congressman.
u2023-04-11-162	It'd be nice if they did that. Thank you.
u2023-04-11-163	Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2023-04-11-164	Honourable Congressman, I can continue to tell you that in Hungary, the legislation must be respected by everyone, and whether or not to comply with the law, it will be examined by the competent authorities. In this case, such an investigation has already been completed. I suppose that Congressman Tordai, with whom he intended to ask his question, is not here now precisely because if I have read the articles correctly today and I do not want to judge from newspaper articles, then he is struggling with the fact that he has otherwise complied with the relevant legislation. I hope that, in the case of construction legislation, I have acted and rooted for him to prove his innocence, not even in his case, but those who are indicting him must prove that he acted improperly, because that would be the right principle of the proper functioning of the justice system. This is how it works in Hungary at the moment: it is not innocence that must be proved, but guilt, honourable Member. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-04-11-165	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What do you think of this, Prime Minister? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-04-11-166	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister, The subject that I am bringing here will not be unknown, and I hope that we can talk about it in a slightly more constructive manner than we have just been on the subject. I would like to talk about the terrible, to say, tragic state of the Hungarian drinking water network and, in general, about the system of serious threats to the supply of drinking water. We know that during last week's government meeting, we know this from the Government Info, and it has been said that the water utility system is in such a bad state that a quarter of the drinking water produced is leaking because of bad pipelines, and the government found after 13 years of governance that there is a need for serious renovation work. It has only been said in the Government Info that so far there has not been much preparation to solve the problems. Minister Gergely Gulyás said that the problem had been only mentioned by the government and that the competent minister had been given a deadline of perhaps 2026. Well, Prime Minister, we know that a technical risk analysis for the entire water utility network should have been carried out by the first deadline, by 2015, and that this has not been completed, and that also later decisions have not been implemented. Prime Minister, this is a decade-old problem. I do not understand why, after almost year after year, the profession indicates the serious problems, why you have not taken any meaningful steps, why you have not assessed the infrastructure, why you do not have accurate information in your hands, so that you can take any meaningful action to solve the financing, and you really feel that by 2026 you have the opportunity to increase the amount of money to be spent on the water utility reconstruction by considerable scale. Last time you admitted that we were talking about thousands of billions when we were talking about the maintenance and renovation of the water utility system, and then you said that this was not a matter of intent for you, but of money. We have looked at the budget, and we all see that the budget spends three billion forints in total to support the maintenance of the water utility system, while paying for this many times, for example, for the construction of pipelines for the water supply of foreign battery manufacturers. How can this happen here in Hungary? Thank you very much for the answer.
u2023-04-11-167	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2023-04-11-168	As far as I know, it's not about the battery companies. [[Dr. László Keresztes Lóránt: Water utilities!]] Because he mentioned it for a sentence, but if he did, I'd say someone's gonna have to make the money that we can turn on the water utilities. That money is made in factories. However, as far as the specific issue is concerned, the government has indeed addressed the issue of the drinking water network. We have an old decision that we are trying to enforce slowly, and this is that for historical reasons Hungary is a country of a size where it is justified to establish the rule that no matter where you live, pay the same fee for the same amount of water consumed. This is not the case today, so a significant part of the country's population feels that they are in an unfair situation. The smaller you live in, the more expensive the delivery of drinking water to the home is, and consequently more is paid for. This isn't right. If we were a large country, which would make sense to break up into regional scales, then we could create a regional water supply system, but we are the size and I think it is justified from the point of view of justice that you live anywhere, in Budapest or Buffalo, or in any remote corner of the country, pay the same amount of fees for a cubic meter of water. We are working on the introduction of this system. It's not simple, it's a little more complicated than your slightly pitiful words tell us, but we're working on it, that's what we're trying to do. That's one of our problems. The second is that the state of the water utility network, where improvements have been made, can indeed be called decades of delays. The government strives to provide resources every year, also in previous years, but this is only enough for absolving and mending. If we are to carry out a complete revision, which I think Hungary would need, we would need to carry out a network reconstruction of about HUF 3000 billion. Your question is justified, and we are working to create these resources. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-04-11-169	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2023-04-11-170	Thank you very much. Mr President, Prime Minister, we must state that the profits the battery companies produce here are being taken out of the country. [[Noise from the pro-government benches.]] Therefore, it is not going to make much use of it for the development of the water utility network. Our problem is precisely what I intended not to express as a pity or not with such a tone, but because it is a truly ordinary problem, affecting the lives of all Hungarian people, that, as you mentioned, three billion dollars are spent a year to support the maintenance work of the entire Hungarian water utility system, while only 30 billion is spent to improve the water utility system of the Göd battery plant. Similarly, in the case of the Ivanča factory, the Hungarian taxpayers spend HUF 30 billion on the construction of plumbing. So I say, too, that we should spend about 200-300 billion a year on maintenance at all, but apparently there is no money in the budget because you consider it more important for foreign battery manufacturers to build the infrastructure for the supply of drinking water, because a century or one percent is spent on this water utility system. Prime Minister, I have one more question. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] There's news in the press that he's been fired...
u2023-04-11-171	Thank you very much, Congressman.
u2023-04-11-172	... the director of the Tiszantúl Water Directorate, who signed a very serious finding of battery factories [[The President shall again indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] the risks associated with its water supply.
u2023-04-11-173	Congressman!
u2023-04-11-174	How can this happen in Hungary?
u2023-04-11-175	Thank you very much.
u2023-04-11-176	And what message is this for Hungarian professionals? Thank you very much, and I apologize.
u2023-04-11-177	Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2023-04-11-178	As far as staff issues are concerned, the legislation applies equally to everyone: those who do their job well get what is due to those who are bad and who have to be divorced. But maybe that's not a Prime Minister's jurisdiction. However, I would like to remind you that things have a sequence. So in order to spend 3000 billion forints on water utility modernisation in the next period, someone has to produce it somewhere. This is produced by the people of Hungary who work. Most of them typically work in factories. These factories pay taxes. But if the factories didn't pay taxes, the people working there would definitely pay contributions and taxes. So the mood I often encounter here, within the walls of Parliament, is unreasonable, it is a bad logic. If we do what you propose and ask, then these factories should be closed, people would lose their jobs, they would have no place to work, they would not be able to support their families and they would not be able to contribute to high-cost modernisation programmes such as the renovation of water utilities. By the way, most of these utilities have recently been taken over by the government, and where the takeovers have taken place, technical due diligence is justified. In all other respects, we know everything about water utilities. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-04-11-179	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Boglárka Illés, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: "Can it be accepted that they influence domestic politics through rolling dollars? It's an address. [[Gergely Harvesto: And other children's tales!]] Illés Boglárka, Member of Parliament, has the floor. [[17.10]]
u2023-04-11-180	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Dear House, More and more shocking details of the dollar-left financials are coming out. According to the information we have so far, we can safely say that the worst campaign financing scandal in the history of Hungarian democracy is unfolding. Maybe that's what Péter Márki-Zay was referring to by saying, "Always up!" What's the matter with you? And unfortunately, the scandal is far from over. It is well-known to all of us: according to the reports so far, the left has received some HUF 4 billion from US Democratic Circles before the elections. Unfortunately, we can say that foreign powers wanted to intervene in the Hungarian election. He came from America, he didn't see much, but he talked more, talked and talked, he was stuck on the necks of the fairgrounds, he was a fallen Prime Minister candidate, Péter Márki-Zay has admitted several times since then: he stayed from the rolling dollars, as they also have access to the funding of protests. In his last interview, he said he had so much campaign money left that he wouldn't go bankrupt after paying a few fines. For the most part, the support from abroad came to the left through the Movement of Hungary, which organised the joint campaign of the left, but its use was actually seen in the campaign of the whole left, as it seemed. This raises the suspicion of illicit party financing, according to the State Audit Office, and the SAO has turned to the tax authority, because on the basis of the accounts there is also a suspicion of tax fraud, tax evasion and double management. This is confirmed by the fact that the Márki-Zay movement and the DataAdat of Bajnai Gordon signed with the same company for bus rides, but the commissioner was hardly able to carry out the 350 bus order; it seems more likely that they paid double for a service. We wouldn't be surprised if we found out that in this case American dollars would roll at the end of the bill. Dear Minister, Based on what you've told me, is it acceptable to use rolling dollars to influence domestic politics in this way? [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-11-181	I would like to thank the congresswoman for her speech. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2023-04-11-182	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Indeed, the biggest party financing scandal in the last 32 years is now being investigated by numerous public bodies, the State Audit Office and now the tax administration. What we know for sure is that the left did not pay his campaign on its own, not through electoral support, not even from the significant sources that the Hungarian state provided to the parties year after year, but from abroad. We also know that this is a strict criminal offence and an infringement in all countries, including the supporting country. I have to say that the Hungarian authorities treat the Hungarian opposition very lightly compared to what would happen in the country of support if it were to be found that one or another party would receive support of this magnitude. Here we can see that an amount of money has reached the Hungarian left, dollars have rolled to the left, which were ample enough to pay the entire campaign. No one who wants the opposition to be judged intellectually or morally that they are worth much less than that. It would have been worth a lot to the financiers to replace the current government and put people in their seats after they were financed earlier, after they had been bought earlier, so they could ask for any favor. This is unacceptable, and this is also the moral deepest point of the Hungarian left since the change of regime, because here they sold themselves, they gave up their own identity in order to gain power. So, if they'd come to power after such a prelude, they'd have to rule this country in the wages of strangers. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Therefore, the strictest investigation of cases is justified. [[Turning to opposition benches:]] and it is also reasonable for Congressman to cover his face, because I too would be extremely ashamed if my campaign had been paid from America. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-11-183	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. In return, I give the floor to Mrs Elias Boglarka. Here you go.
u2023-04-11-184	Thank you for your answer, Minister. Although the rolling dollars may have been seen on the left campaign, the election result on the left is less so, as the Hungarian people have assessed the performance of the left, I think. Thank you for the wisdom of the Hungarian voters. I also think that the authorities need to investigate what has happened, and it is clearly our job as legislators not to leave any legal loopholes where the dollars can roll. We must fill every gap before the alien powers are able to influence Hungarian people's lives or the framework of the everyday life of Hungarian people. Let me live with a classic, because this is our country, this is our life, there is no other, so we will fight for it to the end, and we will never give up. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dóra Dúró: Award winner!]]
u2023-04-11-185	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2023-04-11-186	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and When the voters appreciated the fact that the Hungarian left from Jobbik to the Democratic Coalition can be bought in a package at a discount, although at a very high price, we do not know that. You said that in the current elections, I hope that you will appreciate the following. One thing is certain: in this case, the legislator's task is to examine possible loopholes which, either in municipal elections or in elections to the European Parliament or in Parliament, can enable Hungarian parties to campaign from foreign funds in Hungary, and to create commitments that cannot be assumed to represent the interests of Hungary if they came to power. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-11-187	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, István Hollik, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question:. How can we protect Hungary's interests against Brussels and the Dollar Left? It's an address. [[An uproar in opposition ranks.]] It is for Congressman István Hollik. Here you go. [[Kálmán Olga: Hard!]]
u2023-04-11-188	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ferenc Gyurcsány made a self-discovery and confession recently [[Gergely Harvesto: It's called honesty!]] and we need to talk about this statement in two respects, even if this is not good for Mr Arató. [[Gergely Harvesto: I'm glad to hear you talk...]] Didn't your boss say that for the first time recently that they were actively working together with Brussels bureaucrats to ensure that Hungary didn't receive the funds it was entitled to receive? [[Kálmán Olga intervenes.]] And what makes the situation worse is that Ferenc Gyurcsány says that they have to do all this to hurt Hungary, there will be no money, Fidesz-KDNP will be worse in the election, and they will be better. [[Gergely Harvestó: He didn't say that at all!]] So there's a party political motivation behind all of this, by the way. [[Gergely Harvester: Amazing! Read it.]] On the other hand, Ferenc Gyurcsány breaks off with his decades of political practice because he believes that there is no need to lie on this issue, so Ferenc Gyurcsány finally told the truth about something. [[Kálmán Olga: You shouldn't steal!]] It makes the case worse, that it has also made it clear that what is going on in front of our eyes is a clear political pressure, just as he put it, that the whole thing is dressed in a legal gown. So if we hear any criticism of the Hungarian rule of law from now on, we know exactly what this is about. [[Gergely Harvestó: It is also controlled by Gyurcsány!]] The case raises a number of questions, by the way. Who did DK negotiate with in Brussels? Who was the negotiator? Did Ferenc Gyurcsány or Klára Dobrev negotiate? What conditions did the Democratic Coalition dictate? But, Minister, my question is, how could you consider it democratic from a Democratic Coalition? [[Gergely Harvestó: Why don't you ask us? Why the government?]] that he is in secret negotiations with Brussels bypassing the democratically elected government. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] In other words: how can we protect Hungary's interests so [[Gergely Harvesting: Stupidness!]] Is that what the dollar left is trying to tell me? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-11-189	I would like to thank the Member for his speech. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2023-04-11-190	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I am in a difficult situation because I should answer in place of Ferenc Gyurcsány, and this is certainly not easy, but let us start from what he said. [[Gergely Harvestó: You need a certain standard for it, which you do not have! Defiance and uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] Let's get out of what he said. The first is that you have to tell the truth or you don't have to lie. Say, when we hear Ferenc Gyurcsány say that there is no need to lie, it is like the thief talking about the sanctity of private property. But let's move past this, because for once he was telling the truth when he admitted and said that it was not only you and our fellow Member, Ferenc Gyurcsány, whose boss is Ferenc Gyurcsány, but also the Jobbikós, whose boss is Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks, we don't have a boss.]] the momentists, whose boss is Ferenc Gyurcsány [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] And also the socialists, whose boss was and is his former boss; so Ferenc Gyurcsány speaks exceptionally sincerely now, everything must be done to ensure that Hungary does not have access to the EU funds that are due to us. [[17.20]] But who can't get to it? Don't get it for teachers who could earn over 800 thousand forints gross from 1 January 2025 if you didn't do everything you could to stop it? [[Crying from the opposition, including Gergely Arató: If you didn't steal the money.]] Today, you are working to prevent Hungarian teachers from getting their dues. [[Constant intervention from the pro-government and opposition ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] You are working to ensure that Hungarian health care cannot receive the improvements that will be made either way, but faster if the European Union funds are available. They are working to ensure that small and medium-sized enterprises, local regional development resources, do not reach the Hungarian countryside in the first place. I think this policy is a bad policy. [[Kálmán Olga: Corruption is more damaging.]] it is harmful for Hungary, but it will also turn out to be harmful for the opposition. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-11-191	Thank you very much. I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, In return, I give the floor to Congressman István Hollik. Here you go.
u2023-04-11-192	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. A year ago, Hungarian citizens disturbed the dollar left side far from government, and it is clear that neither Brussels nor the representatives of the dollar left can take note of this democratic decision of Hungarian citizens, and therefore, together they are attacking Hungary for political reasons with the obvious aim of overwriting the democratic will of Hungarian citizens in the Hungarian parliamentary elections. You think this is merely a political game, but honourable Member Arató, when you are working to avoid the arrival of the source, you are hurting Hungarian businesses. [[Continued intervention from opposition lines.]] You're working so that teachers don't get a raise. [[Gergely Harvesto: They work to keep you from stealing it. László Szászfalvi: Ask for a word!]] Shame on you! Shame on you! [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-11-193	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr. Gergely Gulyás is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2023-04-11-194	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I must agree with my colleague Hollik. [[Noise. Kálmán Olga: Oh, how surprised!]] In short, the policy of the opposition can be summarised in such a way that they receive as many dollars as possible and that Hungarian citizens do not have access to the euros they deserve. If we consider that this really means a teacher's wage increase today, it means health improvements, support for small and medium-sized enterprises, then it is clear that you and your MEP Klára Dobrev, István Ujhelyi, although he has already left the MSZP and others, Anna Donáth, to mention someone from the Momentum, but they take on their income in euros, 5-6 million forints per month, and do everything to prevent teachers from earning gross HUF 800,000. [[John Lazarus: Shame!]] I think that's why all decent, well-meaning people, whether left or right, should be ashamed of themselves. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A big round of applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-04-11-195	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, It's 5:23 p.m., and we've reached the end of the immediate questioning. Before we begin to discuss our next item, I would like to inform you that decisions will take place at no earlier than 5:45 p.m. Thank you for your understanding and attention. (Sunning: 17.23 17.27 President: István Jakab Note: Dr. Winner Vinnai and Sándor Szabó)
u2023-04-11-196	Dear Parliament, I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats, and we will continue our work. Dear Parliament, After my fellow Members have taken their seats, I would like to inform you that the Commission's reports on complaints, announcements of public interest and on the rules on whistleblower reporting follow up and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal. The government referral is T/3089. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2023-04-11-197	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that on 6 April 2023 the Legislative Committee discussed T/3089 on complaints, announcements of general interest and rules on whistleblowers. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary amendment report shall be adopted by the Committee in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 46 of the Rules of Procedure. By 28 votes in favour, 6 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The main objective of the legislative proposal before us is to ensure harmonisation of EU law, as it is intended to comply with the provisions of Directive EU/2019/1937 of 23 October 2019 on the protection of persons reporting infringements of EU law. The Legislative Committee's own amendment included substantive and technical amendments. [[17 .30]] Allow me to highlight some of them without the need for completeness. The rules of the Internal Abuse Notification System lay down rules for employers in the bill. Accordingly, optional options under the bill should also be formulated exclusively for employers in order to avoid future enforcement problems. The proposal to better investigate notifications is in line with the rules of the Directive on the protection of persons reporting infringements of EU law. In addition, the norm clarifies that the rules on conflicts of interest and impartiality of the notifying defence lawyer apply to the mandate of an external organisation. By deleting the rule on the duration of data processing, the 2011 CXII on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information. Act 5. § 5 of the bill provides for the application of the rule. As a result, policy-makers should consider the need for personal data management, which will be supervised by the Data Protection Authority under official control. The Hungarian Competition Authority is LVII of 1996 on the prohibition of unfair market conduct and restrictions on competition. operates a complaint handling system under law. The proposal designates an existing complaint management system as a separate abuse notification system under the Act on Complaints, Public Interest Notifications and Abuse Reporting. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In view of what has been said, I would like to ask you to vote in favour of T/3089. Bill No. 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-04-11-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Répássy Róbert, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate. [[Dr. Répássy on Róbert's signal:]] Secretary of State says yes. I would like to inform the State Secretary that he has a total time frame of 15 minutes for his speech and subsequent participation in the debate. You have the floor.
u2023-04-11-199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, On 28 February 2023 the Government submitted a bill on complaints, announcements of public interest and rules on whistleblowers. The basis of the bill is, on the one hand, Article XXV of the Fundamental Law. Directive of the European Parliament and of the European Council on the protection of persons declaring infringements of Union law, as guaranteed by Article 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, on the one hand, and of the European Parliament and of the European Council on the other. During the general debate on the bill, we have heard a number of speeches by Members on which I believe it is essential to clarify a few things. The first and most important thing is that the system of notification under the bill should be either the internal abuse reporting system or the separate Abuse notification system, as their name indicates: notification systems. Their aim is to ensure that signs of abuse, either from the employees to the employer through the internal abuse reporting system or from citizens to public bodies through the separate abuse notification system, can be made through a new channel. The new notification systems do not require either the EU legislator or the government to create a new special procedural regime for existing criminal, administrative or civil law regimes; if such procedures are possible on the basis of notification in the notification system, they should be dealt with within the existing procedural framework. The operator of the notification system shall act when he or she is competent to carry out the information contained in the notification. We do not, of course, require that proceedings be carried out in cases for which there is no substantive responsibility or competence for these bodies. Dear Parliament, In the context of what was said in the general debate, there were concerns of protection. László Sebian-Petrovszki, on behalf of the DK Group, has indicated that it is not clear in detail how the applicant is protected, by the way, by which office and authority in any process. I agree with Mr President that the rules on protection are extremely complex, and this complexity, as I have already indicated in relation to the regime as a whole, is due to the EU directive to be transposed, to multiple and interlinked conditions arising from the rules of the directive. At the same time, I would reassure the Member that protection can be enforced in relation to lawfully made notifications, but that the government did not start by creating an office and a new procedure for this, but that if, for example, an employee is dismissed for a declaration of employment or, let us say, a reduction in his salary, he would be able to dispute this, not in a separate procedure, but in a labour suit, and force protection there. Similarly, if, for example, a person discloses his employer's business secret and is held liable for this in a civil suit or in a labour suit, he will be able to enforce the protection under the bill in the framework of these procedures. I stress that the EU legal act and, accordingly, the bill also seek to strike a balance between the interests of employers and employees. The conditions for the lawful notification or disclosure of the notification are very strict, i.e. the notifier must be very careful, but if he does so, he can expect protection under the bill. Dear House, Finally, allow me to respond to Dr. István Apáti's suggestion from the group of our country. The Member is well aware that it will indeed be an administrative burden for businesses and the public bodies concerned to operate the new notification systems. At the same time, the government has used all the derogations provided by EU directives, but for example, we have not been able to derogate from the EU directive in relation to the number of employers, and we have not been able to integrate simplification in relation to larger municipalities due to the obligation of the EU directive. All we can promise the Parliament is that, by assessing the experience of the transposition of the EU directive and the functioning of the bill, we will strive to achieve an amendment of the EU legal act by the government in cases where it appears unreasonable to maintain this obligation. Dear House, The summarised amendment mainly reflects the outcome of the discussions that took place following the submission of the bill. The main changes are: The new law and the legal institution governing the current complaint management system of the GVH have been linked. The law on the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights leaves the provisions that are included in the new law. As indicated by the constitutional bodies, the main changes have been made to the data protection provisions; according to the summarised amendment, the frequency of the review of the need for data processing in relation to personal data processed in reporting protection systems will be three years in accordance with the general provisions of the info law; and the scope of the law enforcement and NAIH will be wider, as they will have to decide, for example, on the duration of data processing in accordance with their needs and proportionality investigations. Dear House, To sum up the above, please support the bill in its final vote. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-04-11-200	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you that you have a total time frame of eight minutes for further discussion and possible closing. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now possible to speak in the time frame on the agenda; two-minute speeches are not possible. [[17.40]] I'm asking if someone would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] Dear Parliament, I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if you'd like any more... [[For signal:]] The Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to react, because there has not been a debate. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our sitting today. At the earliest, we continue our work at 5:45 p.m. with decisions. Thank you for your cooperation. I'll take a break for 17 hours and 45 minutes. (Sunning: 17.41 17.49 President: István Jakab Note: Dr. Winner Vinnai and Sándor Szabó)
u2023-04-11-201	Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats, to check that their cards have been placed in the ballot counting machine. [[Move. Noise.]] My fellow Members, please take your seats. Thank you. Dear Parliament, The Parliamentary Report of the President of the Curia on the adoption of the report on the activities of the Curia in 2021 on the provision of the legal unit and the control of local government standards H/2018. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/2018. A proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the proposal for a resolution by 117 votes in favour, 47 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, The following is the report on the adoption of the H/2016 report entitled "The President of the National Court of Justice's Office in 2021." Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/2016. A proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the proposal for a resolution by 117 votes in favour, 47 votes against and no abstentions. [[17.50]] It follows that H/2017 on the adoption of a report on the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office in 2021. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/2017. A proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the proposal for a resolution by 117 votes in favour, 47 votes against and no abstentions. There follows the T/3268 on the announcement of a military framework agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Turkey. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3268. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Parliament adopted the bill by 142 votes in favour, 9 votes against and 1 abstention. T/3089 on complaints, announcements of public interest and rules on whistleblowers Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/3089/9. T/3089/10. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the House Rule of Procedure is 48. § 4 of the Dialogue Group proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 3 and 4. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Congressman Bence Tordai. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Bence Rétvári: He's not here either! Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 47 votes in favour, 115 votes against and 1 abstention. Amendment 4 is proposed by Member Bence Tordai. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 33 votes in favour, 129 votes against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/3089/9. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 117 votes in favour, 23 votes against and 24 abstentions. It is now the final vote. In view of the fact that the Parliament has just accepted the summary amendment proposal, the parts of the submitted bill requiring a qualified majority have been abandoned. Therefore, in the final vote, we will decide according to the rules of the simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3089/11. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 118 votes in favour, 23 votes against and 24 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Decisions are now being taken to accept the responses to the interpellations that we have heard on this day, in line with our agreed agenda. Mr Zsolt Gréczy, representative of DK, I/3311. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 117 votes in favour, 47 votes against and one abstention. Gurmai Zita, MSZP representative, I/3488. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 117 votes in favour, 46 votes against and one abstention. Róbert Hondas, representative of Jobbik, I/3474. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 117 votes in favour, 46 votes against and one abstention. Dávid Dócs, representative of our country, I/3480. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 117 votes in favour, 34 votes against and 1 abstention. Rebecca Szabó, representative of the Dialogue, I/3482. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 117 votes in favour, 47 votes against and one abstention. Máté Kanász-Nagy, representative of LMP, I/3487. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 117 votes in favour, 45 votes against and two abstentions. Dávid Barkóczi, representative of DK... [[Intercoms. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Balázs!]] Excuse me, please understand. Balázs Barkóczi, representative of DK, I/3481. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 117 votes in favour, 46 votes against and one abstention. [[18.00]] Ander Balázs, representative of Jobbik, is I/3493. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 117 votes in favour, 47 votes against and one abstention. István Szabadi, representative of our country, is I/3484. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 117 votes in favour, 34 votes against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of our decision. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. Thank you for your cooperation and good work. (Sunning: 18.02 18.06 President: Dr. János Latorcai Note: Dr. Winner Vinnai and Sándor Szabó)
u2023-04-11-202	Good evening, fellow Members. I welcome you all with love. Thank you for leaving the Chamber in an urgent and urgent way so that we can continue our work. As we have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas, we will now have the speeches after the agenda. I give the floor first from the Jobbik Group to Mr János Bencze. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-04-11-203	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, The events of the past weeks-months, but I could say that more than half a year, a sad thing is being projected in Hungary, because Hungarian farmers have not received a single penny of the compensation that the Union has offered to these countries in connection with the flooding of Ukrainian grain in the country and Eastern Europe. What does this foretell for us, what does this foretell for those who try to live and live in Hungary from agriculture? They are holding back EU funds; we are not getting compensation money; this type of grain flows freely from the East to the country, feeding the oligarchs and traders. This suggests that Hungary has become the backyard of the European Union. This is the first step in the direction of Viktor Orbán and his government successfully leading Hungary out of the European Union. Has someone in Hungary made it clear to farmers what it will mean to have us out of the EU? This will mean that there will be no land-based subsidies; there will be no land-based, no Natura 2000, there will be no eco-support. You can produce it on Indian or Ukrainian level, cheaply, in large areas. What exactly does that mean? This has already been said in several forums. It would be desirable for Hungary to have Hungarian agriculture on one or two hands, i.e., in Hungarian: to name two oligarchs, who will dominate the entire Hungarian land fortune and produce instead of farmers if we leave the European Union. It has to be stated that Jobbik-Conservatives also say, and we say clearly: for those living in Hungarian agriculture, there is one way to produce a fair and safe vision if Hungary remains in the European Union, so that Europe is our security. That is what we must bear in mind, and that is the only way we can go. Dear House, There's another question. If the dream of Viktor Orbán is fulfilled and we are out of the European Union because everything points to this, what happens in the Hungarian food markets? We can talk about anything, but it will be cheap for the two national oligarchs to produce on the entire Hungarian land fortune. How can you produce cheaply? By methods against which we have repeatedly spoken: chemicals banned for decades; chemicals typically used in Africa or in neighbouring Ukraine or from us to the East. What will this mean in the Hungarian food market? Healthy food disappears or decreases or becomes priceless. We must acknowledge that the regulation of the large community that we belong to is the European Union's guarantee that we can obtain healthy food, because it is a clear goal for long-lived, healthy people to live in the Union; it is not for diseases, it is not for the health damage caused by food that takes away a happy and calm old age. If they get us out, it's all gonna get lost. There will be no healthy chicken breasts, no organic products; there will be a type of cheap food produced by the oligarchs of the Orient, which can be eaten by people who can go to the remaining assembly plants as wage slaves. I think that no one in this country wants this, and it is safe to say what the Jobbik-Conservatives have said many times that we have one option: to stay in Europe, within the European Union. And the solution to the crisis is not to quit, the solution is not to give European wages to people who live here for work in Europe, because based on their work and products, there is no difference between what was made outside Lajta or in our small country. Thank you. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and DK.]]
u2023-04-11-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! From the DK Group, Mr Balázs Barkóczi applied for a speech after the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-04-11-205	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, It seems that Fidesz's criminal policy has taken another step. We can all remember that during the pandemic, the Hungarian authorities were in a very difficult situation, and the government not only did not help them, but also tried to pull more skin off them, for example with the so-called solidarity contribution. [[18.10]] This is why the Democratic Coalition also submitted a bill in order to adapt the solidarity contribution to the reduced revenues of the municipalities, the redesigned municipal budgets. Of course, the majority of the House's Fidesz and KDNP voted against this proposal, along with many others. The government's policy of punishing local governments then continued with half of the business tax being released instead of giving direct State aid to businesses in difficulty. But even that wasn't enough. Fidesz frustration and inability to govern, resulting from the government elections lost in 2019, led the Orbán Cabinet to fight the virus, not the crisis, but to fight and continue to wage war against the municipalities even during the greatest challenges. In the fight against the epidemic and the crisis, Viktor Orbán failed, so he wanted to show himself strong by hitting the municipalities with tens and a hundred billion in withdrawals. Separate business tax, abstract vehicle tax, cancelled parking revenues, increased solidarity tax, stopped health projects may not even have to mention how much effort has been put into covering their obvious government weaknesses with the punishment of local governments and the millions who live there. Then, in the midst of the energy crisis, another surreal proposal came. The government has caused the economic crisis with whom else? of course, he wanted to make the Hungarian people pay. It has decreed that buildings can be heated to a maximum of 18 degrees in public institutions maintained by local authorities. However, the mayors of the Democratic Coalition still resisted government pressure and committed themselves to not reducing the internal temperature needed to maintain the health of children and their educators in municipal daycare and kindergartens. They did so in the light of the fact that there was a municipality under the district heating regulation published in the Hungarian Gazette in October 2022, where ten times as much was to be paid for heating as before. Then, a month later, the Fidesz government was able to put a shovel on this, because the Fidesz government submitted a proposal that allowed them to take it away from the municipalities and to attach to the state system the local government's clinics that could not be nationalised in 2012. They didn't mind the fact that the municipalities support the operation and development of their own specialist practice by HUF 50-60 billion a year, and in the course of nationalisation, this amount would disappear from funding, and from now on public organizations can control the available budget in the usual, already customary, corrupt manner. In December 2022, Fidesz's master plan came to punish the municipalities again and to bring down the municipal assets. Zsolt Semjén, Deputy Prime Minister, submitted a proposal for an amendment to the Act on Compensation of 91, according to which churches may claim buildings which they had not previously asked for back because they could not maintain them or those that had never been church-owned. In Hungarian: you can take the municipal property within 120 days of a mere announcement, as has already happened in many settlements and districts of Hungary, and this is what you are about to do in my constituency, at XV. in the district, where Péter Erdő and the Hungarian Catholic Church applied to the Salkaházi Sára Elementary School. The government and the clergy, which lie to themselves as a national, are not very disturbed by the fact that at present 5 percent of the Hungarian settlements have only non-state primary schools and 12 percent of the small regions only non-state-requisite secondary schools, i.e. the idea of world-neutral education is violated in so many places, and it would be the responsibility of the state to ensure this. In other words, further expropriation of the real estate of the local government, the waste of public wealth, the insecurity of the local authorities, will continue, of course, only if we let them. But let it be clear to everyone: we, citizens of Crab Palota, Pestújhely and New Palota will not let that happen. We do not give up our clinics, we do not give up our schools, we even demand back the educational institutions that have been nationalized, we ask our children, all of us, for the future of the people who live here. Enough of the government ignoring the local government, enough of the fidesz amok running on the people who live here! Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for the DK benches.]]
u2023-04-11-206	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congresswoman Andrea Hegedüs of the DK Group also applied for a post- Agenda address. Here you go, Congresswoman. You have the floor.
u2023-04-11-207	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much for the floor. I have concluded my speech after the last agenda by continuing. Of course, this is not the same as the government empty, without content, we continue! With his election slogan, which said nothing more than the private migration of public funds, the elamoration of our country. On my part, the continuation concerns the fact that Fidesz-KDNP really focuses on important needs for the population. Too much in Miskolc is a messed up, pathological, harmful investment, promise and withdrawal. I want you to do a thorough job that you don't need to rebuild in a few months, and it's really going to be for the good of the public. There are plenty of negative examples. Consider the torso of the Castle of Diósgyőr, the construction of the new Ellipsum Experience Bath, the remaining shopping mall in Diósgyőr at the promised level, the unfinished road to the Tisza railway station related to the construction of the Y-bridge, the public roads that bite the language and destroy cars. However, the list is not over. So let's really go ahead and not back. What does Miskolc demand? To finally have hope in the health system; to eliminate waiting lists; to have enough GPs and health workers, nurses; to be reassuring to cross the gates of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County Hospital, Semmelweis Member's Hospital, Miskolc SZTK, MisEG Diósgyőr's Hospital. Don't be afraid to stay in the hospital. Find a cure and a therapy for the disease that causes health care in Hungary and Miskolc, so that the education system in Miskolc is determined not by the central party state dictatorship, but by talent and knowledge, so that teachers can receive a 45 percent salary increase in Miskolc as well. So that the government does not expect the European Union to settle teachers' wages, but to ensure it from the budget. They demand a fair payment of overtime, a reduction in labour costs, re-employment of fired teachers, replacement of gaps; strike should be a fundamental right. And they demand that the law of status with dramatic consequences, which teachers call a law of vengeance, should not be introduced. You know what they want? So the state doesn't get caught up in politics. So the Fidesz elite doesn't get rich, because you can see it from the Milky Way. By the way, milk! Food prices have increased by 43 percent in one year. These products are priceless! Dairy products increased by 79 percent. They expect food to be affordable. So that expensive fuel prices don't force them on tiring walking trips, and that they don't read the yellow check bills in four layers of clothes because of the overhead costs. [[18.20]] The budget's in ruins, the deficit's in the sky. The vast majority of the Miskolcs are in a livelihood crisis because of the Orbán government. Pay's getting less and less, the rent's brutal. And there are huge income differences. Health, education, the social sector, small and medium-sized enterprises and pensioners are at the edge of the gap. They want not to ask, but they want the Miskolcs from the Fidesz Members of Parliament to work on solving these problems, every day, from morning to evening, as the majority of the Miskolcs work for a living. Get up with this and lie down with it, because it is their job to ensure the well-being of the people in the city. Fidesz brought uncertainty and anxiety. The state must protect its citizens and not rob them. Do what you can to preserve the city of Miskolc instead of einstanding. On the start screen of your mobile phone, put the following slogan:. The Miskolcs want a predictable European life, so I serve Miskolc instead of Orbán politics. If you can't do that, luckily there's hope. The population of Miskolc knows that there is an alternative and there is a chance for change, and this is the shadow government of the Democratic Coalition. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-04-11-208	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Member Zoltán Varga of the DK Group has also applied for a speech after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-04-11-209	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Well, as Chairman of the Committee on Welfare, I have invited Dr. Péter Takács, Secretary of State, from my presidency, to finally give an account of why the number of cancer deaths in Hungary is one of the highest in the European Union, and how it can be that they spend the least, GDP is barely 69. [[Sic!]] percent to cure cancer. Real and honest answers, of course I don't have to tell you, we didn't get any. Instead, we saw a well-built, excellent presentation with countless colourful graphics about the fact that these data are not so bad, although there is no doubt there is something to improve, the Secretary of State said, but the health care of the Orbán government, which has been stolen, destroyed, crushed in the ground, is actually excellent. It was shocking, really shocking! Just as it was shocking, as doctors among the pro-government representatives, who were aware of the terrible reality and the human tragedies and fates behind it, the pain of families, because we lose patients just because they don't exist every day, there is not enough prevention, there is no way for the majority of society to have a free screening done in time, yet they defend and praise the government's health policy. However, there is no and there cannot be a good answer to why the failed, in fact non-existent, paper-based minister Miklós Kásler's national anticancer program is not working; why the government does not take seriously, whether it is Péter Takács himself, Secretary of State for Health, the horrific numbers that were written in it, yes, terrible numbers, that 313 of every thousand children born now will not live the age of 75 because of their death due to cancer, but the number of deaths per thousand will also be 149 for girls due to cancer. The Secretary of State did not have a real answer as to why they were not doing everything they could to ensure that life expectancy and life expectancy at birth did not decrease again in Hungary, unlike not only the European average, but even the neighbouring former socialist countries. According to the Secretary of State, Covid's deaths are making the statistics so bad. However, this is simply not true, because the epidemic is long over, and the European figures show that in countries with existing health, life expectancy has grown in just two years. This is not the case with us in Orbán Hungary. Never so few children have been born as they are now, and life expectancy continues to decrease. Let's just say we're running out of Hungarians. But according to the Secretary of State, everything is fine here, health at European level. If anyone feels otherwise as a patient, it obviously doesn't feel right, it's wrong or it's lying. According to him waiting lists do not exist, everyone has access not only to the necessary free treatments, but also to medical diagnostic tests. The Secretary of State said all this, and I could also say that, naturally, with an impeccable poker face, apparently, with an inexplicable sense of truth on his face, he said it to the committee. While I was listening, I was thinking that it would be worth it to him, and he was not a hospital director, secretary of state, but as a simple, desperate Hungarian patient, he came into an overcrowded waiting room, and he saw the despair that hundreds of thousands of people in Hungary today feel for medical care, CT, colonoscopy, hopelessly calling for a simple eye exam. I have to admit, I don't know what kind of doctor the Secretary of State was as hospital director. I could also say I'm lucky I don't know. I can pretty much see what kind of politician he is. But I'm pretty sure, seeing his performance before the Welfare Committee, he's certainly excellent as an actor. When he finishes his work here in Parliament, it's likely that any famous theatre will welcome him as an actor. But this, today in Parliament, is not enough. Very little. The country expects much more and Hungary deserves much more. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-04-11-210	Thank you very much, Congressman. Of the independent Members, Mr Ferenc Varga applied for a post-meeting speech. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-04-11-211	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, I read in the Népszava article published recently that Attila Stojka called in a little word to his predecessor Flórian Farkas that he could be responsible and fair leadership of the Gypsy in Hungary; we could use it after thirty years. Actually, I don't know if I should cry or laugh on that sentence, maybe a little bit of both. Of course, I don't have a problem with the content of the sentence, because I have to say I agree with it, but with what's behind it. This is nothing more than a soulless Fidesz policy based on long years of misery and leadership. In recent years, Flórians Farkas have given each other the doorknob both in the National Roma Municipality and in the Roma world around Fidesz, and we see the result: embezzled EU billions, a zero-to-zero system of representation and catastrophic living conditions among Roma. There is a well-stuffed Fidesz party soldier who is destined to lead as many of his compatriots as possible with the money and tools available to him. According to a resolution published in the Hungarian Gazette in March, the government provides HUF 1 billion to the government commissioner responsible for Roma relations in support of his duties. Of this, HUF 100 million will be spent on staff allowances and contributions, 450 million will be spent for other operational purposes, and 450 million will be spent on other accumulation expenses. We could hear how this was done on certain recordings. That's what I call a brown leather trade. Then, of course, no one thinks that some of the Roma leaders are not buying this, because many people are eager to get something off the table, and in return they are selling the Roma living in their settlement. Then, of course, at different points in the country, they set up their candidates for minority self-governments, who, unfortunately, do not know whether to eat or drink this thing, and if they do not give it to God, they will win the election, then the huge realization that they are left alone, the electoral organisation or the nominating organisation that issued their mandate, is not available. The operation and operation of the local Gypsy municipality depends on the mayor and the leaders of the settlement, and the head of the minority municipality does not have much to do with this. In this way, the capacity of the minority self-government system has failed, so the Roma authorities cannot add a little bit to the catch-up. And cooking stew doesn't take much of a stunt, so you can see it in a lot of settlements. And perhaps this is where everyone asks themselves, "Well, how can we break out of this, what can be done to stop the Wolf Florians from ruling us?" [[18.30]] If you expect me to tell you the truth now, I have to say that you are wrong, because I don't have the Philosopher's Stone, but I do know one thing: we have to lay the foundations for change, and if we have to, we have to go against the government commissioner for Roma affairs, who has had two thirds of a government for 13 years and we have to try to offer a credible and real alternative to those who buy it. That's what I'm working on. I work in the shadow government of Klára Dobrev, in which I try to reform the legal passages surrounding the national minority self-governments in such a way that national authorities can finally add to the catch-up. But working within the walls of Parliament is not enough. In order to actually get to the point where we can at least pick up the gloves, we have to go out with people. This is why we have established the Association for Gypsy with Honor, which does not compromise with the politicians of the Roma who have had a history of doubt in recent decades, because we really believe that after 30 years there can be responsible and fair leadership of Gypsy in Hungary. Thank you. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-04-11-212	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the DK Group, Mrs Judit Ráczné Földi applied for a post- Agenda address. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2023-04-11-213	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Magyar Posta does not plan to close the post office, there is currently no restructuring in the company that would reduce the number of post offices reported this in August 2021. After 15 months, Magyar Posta decided to temporarily suspend 366 post offices in order to reduce energy consumption. The Minister for Economic Development of Posta and Márton Nagy promised that the closures were only temporary and that they would be reopened in spring. Now we know that wasn't true, and they lied about that too. In February Magyar Posta made it clear with a completely different explanation that there is no possibility of re-opening temporarily interrupted post offices. Even Székesfehérvár could not avoid temporary postal closures, which was learned from the press and then from Magyar Posta's announcement. In Székesfehérvár, five post offices were closed, with a total of five active post offices left for the city of 100,000 souls. The residents of the part of the city remained completely without postal service overnight, without any information. The Democratic Coalition immediately acted in the interests of the people, and we collected signatures locally and tried to force the reopening of the mail. For many elderly people or parents with small children, it is almost impossible to get to a much farther post office, since many do not have a car or a driver's license. Public transport is not a solution, the occasional multiple transfer is equal to a half-day trip, only the experience is much worse. And if you drive to a much farther post office, you increase traffic, you weigh the environment, and it costs you a lot more than before. Indeed, most of the postal services are used by the older generation. We are talking about people who may not have a car, who, because of their medical condition, can no longer ride their bikes, so they would have to walk miles to find a post office; pensioners, for whom every forint is worth spending, who have not yet grown up in the world of internet or electronic banking. The government, like so many times, has failed the pensioners again. Magyar Posta has made it clear that the condition for the reopening of post offices is that the municipality assumes part of the costs of maintaining them. Székesfehérvár pays a solidarity contribution of HUF 6.6 billion in 2023, but it is not enough for the inhabitants of the city to get these services back. The residents of Székesfehérvár can use three out of the closed five post offices again, but at what cost? Therefore, a lot of sacrifices have to be made, as it will cost the city, the people of Székesfehérvár, more than 100 million forints annually. The completely bled-out municipalities were forced into a new edition by wrong economic policy and inflation in Orbán. Székesfehérvár performs a state task instead of the state company, and he pays for it. This is possible only in Hungary. From the reopening of mail closed on Ybl and Budai Road, Magyar Posta has completely shut down, and we have not been informed why. The Buda Road Post Office provided nearly 20,000 people with supplies and was recently renovated from our tax forints, but now the furniture has also been moved. How can this happen? Yes, it is possible to reopen with the involvement of municipal sources, and the municipality of Székesfehérvár pays to have post offices, while raising the tax on constructions, which puts local businesses in a difficult situation. Postal service is the responsibility of the state, not only its task, but its duty, as it is the duty of education, to provide the maximum amount of health care, has not been seen in recent years. The government save the mail, and do not put the Székesfehérvár people in a position where the entire parts of the city remain unattended. Stop lying and letting people down, give us back our mail. Today, the shadow government led by Dobrev Klára is the only hope that Hungary can belong to Europe, so that people can get access to basic services. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and the independent.]]
u2023-04-11-214	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear House, Fellow Members! Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Member of the LMP Group, spoke after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-04-11-215	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, After the agenda, I talk about the affairs of my narrower country, Pécs and Baranya, this is my speech after the 100th agenda, and on this occasion I will talk about a particularly important topic for me. Olga Tass, the first Olympic champion of the city of Pécs, was born on 28 March 1929. This great athlete, this great sportsman, this great champion, is connected to the city of Pécs with a thousand threads, he was not only born here, he was not only born in Pécs, but he also graduated from primary and secondary education in Pécs in 1941, and started his career as an athlete in Pécs in 1941. During his career as a competitor, he participated in four Olympics, and he won a total of six medals, one gold, three silver and two bronze medals. In the 1956 Olympics he was a member of the Hungarian handicraft team who wrote the title. In addition to his competitive career as a coach, he has achieved very serious domestic and international successes and results. In 1951 he was a teacher at the College of Physical Education, in 1978 he received a degree in gymnastics, and in 1981 he was a master coach. From 1960 he was coach of the Újpest Dózsa and from 1961 to 68 he was coach of the French gymnast team. Later he was a teacher at the College of Physical Education, the Hungarian women's gymnastics team, the coach of Vasas and the Budapest Honvéd. Tass Olga died on 10 July 2020. Last summer, on the second anniversary of the death of this great sportsman and our Olympic champion Márton Vádi, a journalist from Pécs, we took an initiative and presented an initiative in Pécs. Our proposal was that the competition street gymnasium opened in 2018 in Pécs should bear the name of our city's first Olympic champion, Tass Olga. With this initiative we contacted the mayor of Pécs, we contacted the Hungarian Gymnastics Association, we also contacted Pécs Sport Nonprofit Zrt. and the State Secretary responsible for sport. It was a great honour that Zoltán Magyar, president of the Hungarian Gymnastics Association, the national athlete, responded almost immediately, and wrote with great joy that he supported our initiative and considered it very important and very forward-looking. We were very pleased to hear this response, because I think it is the most important and positive feedback we have received on our initiative. We regret that we have not received an official response from the Pécs city administration to this day, but we are very, very confident that this did not happen, of course, in order not to support this proposal. At the same time, we consider this to be a very important issue, a very important issue in Pécs, and we would like to see this initiative succeed, and a lot of pécs can feel this in their own initiative. So what we do is to turn to the people of Pécs and ask as many people as possible to join this initiative and support the fact that this can really be a matter of Pécs that can lift us beyond all divisions and connect us. We are very, very confident that if we take this step and there are a lot of Pécs in favour of our initiative, then on a very short journey, even next spring, on the next anniversary of Tass Olga's birth, we can bear his name for this relatively new sports facility, and this is a worthy way to remember that we can honor the memory of this great athlete in this way. [[18.40]] At the end of my speech, I remember Tass Olga, a great sportsman, a great Olympic champion with honor and pride. We thank him for all he has done for the city of Pécs, Hungary and the Hungarian nation, I think, for the pride of all of us. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2023-04-11-216	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! After the agenda, Mr Attila Stojka from the Fidesz Group applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-04-11-217	[[Fidesz]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I cannot allow myself not to make a brief remark to Mr Ferenc Varga's speech, although he may not deserve it again. He talks about the kind of leadership in which he is the strongest, because he started his mandate in Jobbik and then continued for a short time as an independent representative, and now he is trying to join the DK, which is in fact the busiest in vulnerability, because we know that before 2010, the type of social policy that they conducted was appropriate for only one thing to keep Roma and disadvantaged people vulnerable. Finally, allow me to ask for the kind of comment that qualifies all Members regarding the signs referring to the National Gypsy Municipality. I think that there are Members who do their job very decently, and there are certainly some who do not represent the interests of the community. Unfortunately, most of those Members are attached to the left. Just as it is clear that in his speech he has designated and insulted ethnic authorities who are trying to represent the Roma in Hungary fairly, to achieve their cultural identity and cultural autonomy. But actually, what I asked for today was a very noble thing. That is because every year we celebrate the day of Roma culture on 8 April, a memorial day that actually devotes to it a commemoration that took place in London in 1971, when the Roma met for the first time in the world and held the World Congress of Gypsy. In fact, we can ask ourselves what April 8th meant in 1971. Unity, identity, community, where they didn't seek differences, but community, common values, which meant wealth, sense of life. Not poor culture, as others try to show it. Not ghetto culture, as others would suggest. Although we know they see gypsy as a problem. In fact, they admitted that they even turned their heads. We felt it and lived it. When we talk about Gypsy and Roma culture, we need to make it clear that it is a culture of value and resources. Resource and value, part of the Hungarian nation, part of the universal culture, part of all levels of society. The Roma culture has given our country Kossuth-winning artists such as Margit Bangó, Mónika Lakatos, Ferenc Sánta, Oszkár Ökrös or István Szentandrassy the line could be extended for a long time and names could be mentioned. The value that rests on such foundations as respect, respect, and family. These are the ones that were, and are, the basis of our culture and identity. But if we mention our culture and identity, then we also need to talk about that they are not separate things, rather than identity is actually the basis of culture. Culture is the identity, which is given to us, the Roma, twice, because together we can live our Hungarianness and our Romaness. In fact, it's only healthy if we don't choose. In fact, one can't go at the expense of the other. We can live by the dual identity, which makes us richer. Happy birthday to the Roma culture. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2023-04-11-218	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its work at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed. I wish you all a good, restful good night.
