u2023-03-08-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all with love. Have a seat. I would like to inform you that, on the 6th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament, László Földi and Dávid Dócs will be taking note of my assistance. The 6th day of the spring session will be opened and I welcome everyone who is monitoring our work today. Dear House, A joint general debate on the report and the report of the Hungarian National Bank for the year 2021 and the proposal for a decision on its adoption will follow. Report submitted by the Hungarian National Bank B/42. and the proposal for a decision submitted by the Economic Commission, H/2280. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. With great respect, I welcome President György Matolcsy, President of the Hungarian National Bank. I'll give him the floor to keep the report. I don't know, Mr. President, you're going to the stand. [[For signal:]] Yeah. We'll wait for Mr. President to get up on the stand, and then I'll give you the floor. [[It's happening.]] Thank you. Here you go, Mr. President. You have the floor.
u2023-03-08-1	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, Congresswoman and Lords! First of all, I would like to welcome the ladies today with respect; grandmothers, mothers, girls and ladies on behalf of all men, especially the men working at the Hungarian National Bank. Mr President, Dear House, In my honour, I can and must speak about the operation and outcome of the Hungarian National Bank in 2021. Allow me to say that we have prepared an annual report, as always. [[He's showing it to me.]] I assume you've all been over it in detail. That is what we have done, and I therefore suggest that we refrain from explaining this in detail. [[Dávid Dócs takes his place in the notary seat.]] In a similar way, I would ask you to waive the fact that I repeat my report to the Committee on Economic Affairs. I assume at least everyone heard it by reputation. The comments, analyses and conclusions made there remain valid, but allow me to approach our year 2021 a little differently, as well as the activities and results of the Hungarian National Bank in 2021. Over the last 32 years, there have been a few years that are particularly significant on an economic historical horizon. Obviously, this is the time of the system change, obviously the time of the Bokros program, obviously the first half of the 1990s, which was essentially the successive shock therapy of two political families. This is obviously the glorious period 2000-2002, when Hungary has actually achieved the highest pace, speed and catch-up performance in two years, thanks to two programmes, the first Széchenyi plan and the new home creation programme. We have not been able to repeat that performance since then, but once we have achieved it, János Horváth teaches us that what exists is possible, we must aim for this. From this perspective, I would like to tell you about the operation of the Hungarian national banking system in 2021, which is partly coming from previous decades, of course, but which will be set in advance by ten years, as Demján Sándor said in 2002 about the 100th day programme. Unfortunately, he was right, the huge error of the Hungarian economic history, the 100-day programme, cast a ten-year shadow on the Hungarian economic history. Well, sometimes the economical character of a year and the decisions resulting from it cast a shadow for a whole decade. In this respect, I would like to evaluate 2021 and allow me to say that the period 2010-19 was indeed the best decade in the Hungarian economic history of some 100 years after Trianon. We know why, we know the recipe; as we know why the short period 2000-2002 was so successful, we now know what spring our most successful decade was, what was the secret, what was the mystery. We call this reforms and balanced growth. Between 2010 and 2013, Hungary, of course, carried out a very successful reform programme after a political decision, with the turn of economic policy. You can't list everything, it's not worth it, but let me just point out three things. We've adjusted the budget balance, which was a huge success. Before that, a budget structure has never been established that has been dealt with on the revenue side. Not on the expense side, on the revenue side. This was the new tax system. Allow me to call this another source of success; and as a third, it is obviously a series of labour market reforms. Those three factors were a direct and very successful result of one million new jobs in ten years. Hungary had a vision in 2010, for economic policy, this marked and meant the creation of a million new jobs together, and we have achieved this. A clear, clear, strong vision, an effective ten years. A million new jobs. Yes, but after 2019 something else followed, such as another decade. We say that history does not repeat itself in part, but its inclinations and patterns certainly remind us of certain earlier ages, they return, the 1970s and the 1940s are returning. In 2019 this was predicted by the Hungarian National Bank, not with much success, both in the global space, through global central bank channels and in Hungary for government and economic policy. The return of the 70s means very simply that there will be a price explosion, an energy price explosion, and prices will explode in a number of other areas, such as the food industry, but also elsewhere, in public services and services; there will be a war, as there was a recession and a crisis in the 70s; there will be a recession, a crisis in the US economy in 1970; there will be a very strong pressure on inflation, there will be waves of inflation, and even if we are not alerted in 2019 in advance, then there will be a point that we will not be able to contain inflation. This was the case in the 1970s, when in 1982 a new excellent US central bank president had to raise interest rates to curb inflation. And indeed, it is a time when we have to fight very hard for very small growth. That's what we call stagflation. [[9.10]] So an increase near stagnation, whether there is, or not, is small, and a high inflation has come to an era of stagflation. We've predicted it, it's happened. The Hungarian National Bank indicated that inflation would return in autumn 2020. There were very few international global central banks that believed this, who knew but did not say, some did not say because they did not know, almost none of the governments did, and at the beginning of 2021, in our own economic history comparative analyses, we concluded that not only inflation would return, but it would be permanent, lasting and high. After doing this, in the middle of 2021, the Hungarian National Bank implemented a complete monetary policy turnaround. It launched the interest cycle, withdrew its previous economic recovery programmes and started very strongly and very successfully to curb and break down inflation. There was a break between the government and the Hungarian National Bank. While the Hungarian National Bank had to step on the brakes, the government did not have to step on the gas. When the first wave of inflation started because we should not forget that in 2021, as a whole, there is 5.1 percent inflation, the government did not take into account, unfortunately, the Hungarian National Bank's signals, analyses and recommendations on brake [[Sic!]] He stepped in. There was no need, there was another way, there could have been an anti-inflationary policy when it was about to start. It's easier to stop something at the beginning than at the end to look for the big hoses to put out the fire. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank could also do so because it was binding, but it started the fight against inflation, because we managed the complex crisis called Covid-19 together with the government, central bank, banking system, business sector and families. Crisis management has been resolved in 14 months, not even in four years; I think and refer to the huge crisis after 2008. In 2009, we were 9 percent behind Poland. So it can be handled badly, and the crisis can be dealt with well. Hungary managed the Covid crisis well. Crisis management was in the middle of the European Union, and cooperation, alliance and credit played a crucial role in this. This was a credit-based crisis management, where the Hungarian National Bank's financial transfusion of HUF 11 000 billion provided financial resources for survival; it was a credit-based crisis management. According to our calculations, in 2020-21, but even a little in 2022, this resulted in an extra 10-percent Hungarian economic surplus, a surplus of GDP. If it hadn't been, even today, we wouldn't have left the Covid crisis, the complex crisis caused by Covid, including the clashing waves of the economic crisis. Money was therefore crucial, and it was crucial that everything was a crisis, but there was no financial crisis, and the financial system was not in danger for a moment. After we had a successful decade, and after we managed the Covid crisis successfully, the Hungarian National Bank could turn to prevent the new crisis with a full chest width to deal with inflation. The government did not think so, and that is a great pity, because with this the real key to success of the previous decade, the key to balance growth, so that there is a balance at the same time, this means a deficit of around 3 per cent, an external trade balance, a current account balance, a labour market balance and a balance between all factors covered by inflation, i.e. supply demand in the market. This economic policy has broken down, this economic policy that is a common success, and I think that this will cast a shadow for the whole decade. Unfortunately, Sándor Demján is no longer among us, but he would tell me that my friends, you now seem to have repeated the mistakes of the 100-day program. It was a shame to give up. It's gonna be really hard to get back from here. It's very easy to mess something up, and it's very hard to fix. When you have children's toys at home, especially when you're a three-and-a-half-year-old boy's children's toys, you know exactly how hard it is to open them and then get the wheel back. So this imbalance, which has resulted from both the budget, the external trade balance, the current account and market imbalances, which appeared in inflation, will be with us for a long time. This is also the case, because if we compare the figures of Hungarian economic policy with the region in 2021 and Poland offers the best comparison, we can see that the budgetary deficit in Poland was 1.9 percent, in 2022 it was 3 percent, in Hungary it was 6.8 percent, in Poland the Hungarian government deficit was 6.1 percent compared to the 3 percent in 2022. And there will be an inflation budget for 2023. There should be no doubt that the government deficit above economic growth is causing inflation in the general government deficit-to-GDP ratio. So even the 3.9 percent budget this year, just like the 6.8 percent and the 6.1 percent budget, triggers inflation. Not as much as before, but that's what he's doing. Ladies and Gentlemen, Your Honour, Mr. President. Hungary walked into three traps by the second half of 2022 as a result of the wrong turn in government economic policy. The first is the financial trap. The financial trap is more than one, but more traps and subtraps than the pockets of the Széchenyi card and other cards, so there's a interest trap in it. While in 2021 the interest on government debt was 2.3 per cent in proportion to GDP, this is now 3.7 per cent by 2023 and will double next year compared to 2.3 per cent. It's a interest trap. Before anything else starts, we wake up every year on January 1st, and we have to pay very serious amounts over HUF 1000 billion on interest. The other financial trap is a trap for foreign capital inflows. The import of advanced technology is good, the balanced, geographically and even geopolitically balanced foreign capital is good, but it cannot be built on the catching up of a country! There was never, anywhere, a catch-up model built on an external factor; it can only be built on internal factors. [[9.20]] These were analysed in 330 points, 144 points, 50 points, we handed them over to the government, but I think that, not taking this into account, we walked into a working capital trap in Hungary today. This is a trap because the better the investment is, the higher the return and the higher the return we have to pay. Even though they invest, let's say half of it in Hungary is like interest, we still have to pay more and more. We should pay for it ourselves, not anyone else. This foreign investment in working capital, once again, is good to bring in new, modern technology, if it brings in innovation, if it brings in management, if it opens up a new market. But if he doesn't do that and his added value is low, for example, 18 percent in the battery sector, then it's a trap. It acts as a trap because the return on foreign operating capital is higher than the interest rates on loans. It's higher than the loan, as shown by the MNB's analysis. The third trap is the exchange rate trap. In Hungary in 2010, the government and when I say government, not according to Hungarian peculiarities, of course I always mean the Prime Minister, so the Hungarian government did not accept the proposal of the Ministry of National Economy to launch a renewable energy programme of 2 thousand megawatts. If that had started, we wouldn't have many problems. We would have all kinds of problems, war, sanctions, the dry civil war between Budapest-Brussels, which should be stopped, but in fact, Hungary on the energy front would be very good. The program didn't start. And by the middle of the decade 2010, this programme would have brought reassuring results. Ladies and Gentlemen, Interest, foreign working capital and exchange rate deterioration, followed by an energy trap, together the Hungarian new income, which is created annually, will consume 10-15 percent of it. It's a trap. While Romania is in an unsustainable social trap, Hungary is in no less unsustainable financial trap. The reasons why we are here are therefore quite clear: Hungary has walked into traps, including the energy trap. In Hungary, the highest dependence on imported energy is 50-70 percent in the last decade, in Poland, the Czech Republic and Romania it is between 20 and 40 percent, and in Slovakia it is roughly the same as in Hungary. We walked into a productivity trap because in the decade of 2010 we achieved very good results in quantitative growth, a million jobs have been created, which is a fantastic result, the best quantitative result after 1920, but no qualitative turns, such as productivity, have started. In fact, the relative level of productivity of the Hungarian economy deteriorated from 2019 to 2022, we managed to sneak back from the fourth worst place, slip to the third worst level, they are barely behind us. As a result, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, today Hungary is facing two very strong challenges. One is the catch-up challenge and the other is the inflation challenge. Both have the same reasons. The growth and catching-up challenge means that, while we were ahead of a number of countries until 2019, first Greece, then Slovakia, then Poland and finally Portugal, now, in 2021, Poland was ahead of us at the time of my report, and Portugal left us quite well ahead. Hungary stood at 75% compared to the EU average in 2021, Portugal not much better, 75.1 percent, but the trend is important. The trend is that Portugal did better in 2022 than we did, so it has already left us significantly. And it was upon us, but we might find Romania neck and neck, even a little ahead of us. This shows precisely that Hungary has a growing and catching up problem. So what we solved in the beginning of the 2010 decade, when we completed 85 percent of the reform of the entire decade in the first three years, then a specific reform desert emerged. The last major reform in the autumn of 2014 was a HUF 9 billion forint, after which there were good results for baby bonds, excellent, other, 9 percent corporate tax, but no real big reform. However, there is no sustainable catch-up without reform. Then there's only credit, or foreign working capital, which can work as an even bigger trap if we mistreat it than credit. It is a painful point in productivity, and we are seeing this now, and the price caps have not solved it, and even the food price caps have made the situation worse, and inflation has been artificially and unnecessarily boosted by 3-4 percent, that the productivity of the food industry is not the third worst in the European Union, but the second worst. Here we stand in a country of excellent agricultural potential, we could potentially have a fantastic food industry, yet it shows the second lowest productivity in the European Union. And no one should doubt that the success of a country is ultimately determined by its productivity level. You can't divide it any more. You can take out a loan for a while, but it's a trap now. You can involve external capital, you have to have the right technology, but you can't build the catch-up on it. And, of course, it is very painful to have failed education reform, higher education reform and health, health industry, health services reform, as this could also be part of a qualitative turnaround. Ladies and Gentlemen, Of course, since 2015-16 the Hungarian National Bank has regularly published the analyses that we wanted to influence the heart and brain of the government in order to launch the necessary reforms, but this has not happened. This would have been the reform of housing policy, the reform of irrigation and the development of the whole water sector. So I have to tell you that the year 2021 is characterized by double nature that we have been caught up with problems, we have been caught up with strategic mistakes in the 2010s. All the mistakes that we made with the fantastic results of 2010 have caught up with us. We can only see what's around us in the light of lightning, and now there's lightning and even a storm. The second was that in 2021 the government took a negative turn in economic policy, lost balance, and then, of course, the war, the sanctions, the battles in Brussels came in 2022. But before that, in 2021, at the time of my report, the negative economic policy change began. Ladies and Gentlemen, Therefore, and with this line of thought, I would like to conclude my main supplementary report now, we must prevent us and our successors from asking us a question in 2030: why have we failed? Where and how have we lost our way? Tibor Pető once asked this question in the Hungarian Nation, not now, but 80 years ago, it was also a cycle. And we have to say that in 2021 we lost our way, and unfortunately we continued this in 2022, and it is not yet apparent that in 2023 we are able to modify this roadblock. It's supposed to be, because we've done it before, several times, but now we can't see it. Ladies and Gentlemen, If we do not ask ourselves this question and our offspring do not ask us, I think that we need to draw, say, ten conclusions, ten lessons to be taken, and we need to calculate its effects within ourselves. [[9.30]] So, we have to draw ten conclusions from the successes of the previous decade, from the delayed and missed reforms of the previous decade, from the strategic mistakes of the previous decade and from the current economic policy malpractices, because there is no doubt that the budget deficit will be released... Poland is the mirror. It could have been different, and the Poles are way ahead of us now, they work better, government work better, the two central banks do their job. The Polish-Hungarian comparison shows that, therefore, the release of balance is one artificial error, and the other is inflation increased by price caps, which should have been introduced a long time ago... well, it should not have been introduced, but if it had been introduced, it would have been a long time ago, on 1 January. So, ten lessons, allow me to go through them quickly, perhaps from the mouth of our children and grandchildren to anticipate these lessons. But once again, in order not to ask us why we failed, why we failed to catch up, why we failed to get among the first five best countries, work and life best countries, why we are in the last five... because if we were abandoned by Poland, Portugal, and Romania are very close to it, then we will not have many countries behind us, four or five, and Croatia will shoot out of it. We can be among the five worst countries, and this must be avoided. The ten lessons: the strategic mistakes of the past cast a shadow for up to ten years, must be avoided. Second, we need a clear goal. Hungary had a clear target of one million new jobs in the,, 10s. Not now. Did the Prime Minister tell me when to say it? politely, but tactfully, I asked him to draw a measurable goal for the decade: if I measure, I lose. You're wrong. If you don't measure, you'll lose. If you measure, you win. For example, we're measuring in elections, aren't we? And the Prime Minister won. It's not true. Everything must be measured, especially in the economy. If you don't measure, you lose. Ladies and Gentlemen, It is also very important for us to see in the future what is visible about the past, a little look at the essence of the '70s and the 1940s. Well, it's not exhilarating, the first half of the 40's is a hot war, the second half is a cold war, it can happen again. And we know for the decade 70: it's the time of stagflation. There are always crises that are a lesson to be learned by those who use the crisis to reform and transform. That's what we did in 2010. That's not what we did this time. We deported, as we say in Kecskemét, we de-educated, we hijacked a good crisis in 2020-21-22. There are no major changes that the crisis should have triggered. The regions are moving together this is also a lesson, and I will tell you the rest later. One last sentence, thought, was the President of the Central Bank offended? Frustrated? Did you have a fight with the Prime Minister? No, God forbid. There's a fundamental conflict between the government and the central bank. The Hungarian National Bank has an obligation to fight against inflation, and we expect the government to help us. Ladies and Gentlemen, Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause. Dr. István Apáti: He didn't tell me the ten.]]
u2023-03-08-2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, The rapporteur for the Committee on Economic Affairs is Mr Erik Bánki, President of the Economic Committee. Here you go, Mr. President. You have the floor.
u2023-03-08-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear President of the Bank, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to welcome the ladies sitting in the hallway for the occasion of women's day. God bless you and keep it strong and healthy for a long time. The National Assembly is present not only as a legislator in the Hungarian public-law system, but also has a controlling role. In this capacity, it controls several independent bodies, including the Hungarian National Bank, in addition to the government's operation. Every year Magyar Nemzet Bank is obliged to report to the National Assembly on its activities, and it has fulfilled its obligation in 2021. This report is what we are discussing in front of Parliament at the moment. At its meeting on 5 December 2022, the Economic Committee, which is responsible for tasks and powers, discussed the central bank's business report and report for the year 2021, and also listened to President György Matolcsy's oral report. The Committee has decided that, according to the report of the National Bank of Hungary, H/2280 is in front of you. present to this House a proposal for a resolution with the number of papers, in the light of which the National Assembly must assess the activities of the National Bank in 2021. The Committee concluded that the Magyar Nemzeti Bank's business report and accounts for the year 2021 comply with the statutory requirements, report on the tasks of the central bank, its monetary policy and its supervisory activities. Dear House, The central bank's primary objective is to achieve price stability and maintain it. Without compromising its primary objective, it will support the stability of the financial intermediary system, increase its resilience, contribute to economic growth and support the government's economic policy by the means at its disposal. The Covid-19 pandemic and its economic effects created a whole new situation in the world in 2020, and thus in Hungary. Here it was particularly important for the Hungarian government to be able to react quickly to the effects of the crisis, and these measures will bring results relatively quickly, as everyone feared that the global economy would be completely destroyed, hundreds of thousands, millions, and tens of millions of jobs would disappear in the world, and society would be in a very difficult situation. I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, the current figures, the economic indicators of recent years, have indicated that the Hungarian government has made good decisions and responded quickly, and that in Europe it was one of the countries that launched the strongest, largest economic recovery programme compared to their gross national product and, as a result, in 2022, [[Sic!]] We have achieved an economic growth of 7.1 percent, which, I think, is unique at the level of the European Union. Thanks to the central bank for its support for this economic policy in 2021. What were they again? In 2021, the measures and programmes of the Central Bank, as I have already mentioned, contributed to the achievement of the Hungarian economy as early as the second half of the year before the crisis. In the years of crisis management in 2020 and 21, the country was able to achieve success because we won the previous decade, and therefore the crisis management programmes were built on a strengthened Hungarian economy and society, resulting in the 7.1 percent economic growth in 2021. Hungary was one of Europe's fastest recovery economies this year. In order to address inflation rising from mid- 2021, the central bank launched an interest rate increase cycle and started to reduce the use of crisis management instruments. The Hungarian National Bank, in consultation and in cooperation with the government, made 11 000 billion HUF available to the Hungarian economy in 2020 and 2021, which was an unprecedentedly high amount, one of the largest support programmes in Hungarian economic history. Within the European Union, only the European Central Bank, which is much richer than us, and which has an impact on the euro area as a whole, has implemented a greater economic recovery or an economic protection programme. Dear Parliament, It is important to mention that the domestic banking system was stable in the prolonged epidemic situation, its shock-resistant ability is particularly good for both the liquidity situation and the loss capacity. The Hungarian banks are constantly able to provide the necessary resources to economic operators. Due to central and public credit programmes, the prolongation of the moratorium and the maintenance of strong demand, credit growth continued dynamically. The character of domestic crisis management is credit-based, which is shown by the fact that credit institutions grew by 15 percent on an annual basis in 2021, mainly due to the strong growth in housing loans. [[9.40]] Currently, domestic domestic lending is one of the highest in the European Union. The company's credit growth also increased dynamically, with an annual growth rate of almost 11 per cent, while the growth rate of the small and medium-sized enterprises segment was 16.8 per cent in 2021. In this respect, the."Renewal Credit Program" played a significant role! Also the extended general moratorium and the loan and guarantee programmes of the public institutions. In 2021, the central bank continuously and actively examined the digitalisation level of the domestic financial system and encouraged the improvement of the digital competitiveness of financial institutions. In addition, within the framework set up earlier, the central bank continued to make a significant contribution to the safe and rapid uptake of innovations in the domestic financial system. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In conclusion, the Hungarian National Bank fulfilled its legal tasks and achieved its objectives in 2021; its actions and programmes contributed to making the performance of the Hungarian economy re-launching outstanding in terms of the size of the European Union. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-03-08-4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The representative of the Government indicated that he did not wish to take a position and to present himself during the debate. [[Interventions from the benches of opposition parties: He is not here! There's no one here!]] Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Mihály Witzmann. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-03-08-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear President of the Bank, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, please allow me to join the speakers before me, and on the occasion of a woman's day I wish you very much happiness, joy, good health and the blessing of the creator God, both in this room and in the ladies who are staying outside the room. Turning to the bill before us, as Chairman of the Economic Commission, my fellow Member Erik Bánki has just presented the position of the Economic Committee in detail on the report and report of the Hungarian National Bank for the year 2021. Allow me, too, to address some important points, perhaps less so far, on this report in my speech as a lead speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, We are pleased to say that the Hungarian economy was able to expand during the third wave of the coronal virus epidemic. In the first quarter of 2021 domestic GDP increased by around 2 percent compared to the previous quarter. The European Union's top-ranking level of population grafting has provided an appropriate basis for re-launching the economy. The Hungarian economy is among the fastest recovery economies in Europe. This is also well demonstrated by the fact that GDP reached its pre-crisis level already in the second quarter; while growth continued in the third quarter, with decreasing dynamics. Overall, therefore, GDP exceeded its pre-crisis level by around 0,7 per cent on an annual basis. In the fourth quarter, economic growth was more favourable than expected, while the structure of growth was characterised by duality. On the one hand, disruptions in international production chains and rising raw materials and energy prices have slowed the recovery of the economy and on the other hand, further increasing domestic demand has dampened the negative effects of external factors. On the basis of the available data, it can also be concluded that the budget deficit and the government debt ratio have been on a downward path since 2021. As we have just heard from the President of the Central Bank, in 2021 the Hungarian National Bank took a monetary policy turn. As long as, at the beginning of the year, it maintained persistently loose conditions by maintaining measures to address the economic impact of the coronal virus epidemic and by applying new measures, from the second half of the year it also became more stringent as a result of the re-launch of the economy and the changing environment due to sustained inflation. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian Parliament was the first in Europe and the first in the world to provide the so-called Green Mandant to the Hungarian National Bank, through which it was possible to successfully and effectively support Hungary's sustainability and green transition. The practical basis for this new central bank approach was laid down in the Green Central Bank Toolkit Strategy announced on 6 July 2021, which aims to provide a coherent framework for the possible directions on which the National Bank of Hungary can also transpose climate protection and environmental sustainability into its monetary policy instruments. Hungary's sustainable catch-up can be achieved with the greening of the economy, which requires at the latest by the end of the decade a financial system to take into account and enforce environmental sustainability aspects in Hungary. The housing credit market was a suitable starting point for supporting the integration of greening, given that the energy efficiency of the domestic residential housing stock is low, so there is a significant space for modernising it. To this end, the Hungarian National Bank has launched two new initiatives. The NHP Green Loan Scheme and the Greenmortgage Purchase Programme. The NHP Green Loan Programme aims to promote the creation of a green housing credit market and the functioning of environmental sustainability aspects in the domestic housing market, which can also contribute to boosting demand for and supply for green homes. The purpose of the Greenmortgage purchase programme strategy is to contribute to the creation of the domestic greenmortgage market through targeted purchases and thus to the expansion of greenmortgage loans. This also indirectly supports the construction of state-of-the-art buildings from an energy point of view and the development of a healthier building stock in Hungary. Within the framework of the programme, the Hungarian National Bank purchased a total of HUF 48 billion worth of securities. With an additional mortgage bond worth HUF 3 billion purchased on the second market, the closing stock at the end of 2021 reached HUF 51 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, In short, I would also like to highlight the educational activities of the Hungarian National Bank, as well as the MNB's financial stability and financial consumer protection objectives, the central bank has established a complex information system called Financial Navigation to improve the financial awareness of the adult population, which aims to provide credible and comprehensible information to a wide range of citizens through a number of channels. Ladies and gentlemen, It can therefore be seen that the Magyar Nemzeti Bank has developed a rather colourful and meaningful portfolio in 2021, in addition to fulfilling its tasks from its mandates. In addition to its basic financial and economic tasks, the development of digitalisation, the transfer of financial knowledge to the population and the launch of the Green Credit Programme also marked the operation of the Hungarian National Bank. On this basis, the Fidesz fraction supports the discussion and then the adoption of the proposal before us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-03-08-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Ferenc Dávid. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-03-08-7	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. I have to say, I'm a little embarrassed because President Matolcsy, as usual, can always interrupt me with his lectures. He did so on December 5th and today. Of course, I will not deviate from what I originally said, but obviously a comparison between the 5 December and today's speech is absolutely necessary. I fully agree with Mr President, and it was a very good initiative to assume, on the one hand, that we had read the 138 - page account. I think that this report, if you don't think it's rude, I won't be wasting much time either. By the way, on 5 December we were able to listen to this personally and for a long time from Mr President. Obviously, the result for the year 21 is no longer so important in spring 2023; we are all more excited about what we heard on December 5th, what happened in the past two months, and obviously the actualities of today have an extraordinary influence on what we have to say. In which my assessment of the situation and his assessment differ, I will focus on them. I will quote Mr President many times, because he has a lot of things like what he has to say on 5 December. I will start with a focus question that he raised as a very big problem that a whole new phenomenon, inflation, struck in the middle of 2021. [[9.50]] I think it is very important that the Hungarian economy was not in 2021, but in 2017, only at such a low level that the Hungarian economy did not respond to this, but even then Hungarian inflation was twice the rate of inflation in the European Union. After that, this career became steeper and obviously the health crisis and the economic crisis and the war brought it to the sky together. The other thing I would like to say is that when we talk about war and sanctioning inflation very often, it is very important that this inflation process has started long before the war, so war cannot be marked as an inflation factor. The next thing you said today and December 5th is that what we are experiencing and seeing now is the failure of the government policy of the year 2021,, 22, 23, he called it faulty and malpractice, and this malpractice affects an entire decade. I very much agree with Mr President, but it is a pity that it is too late to know that he finds it unacceptable with us, that in 2021 the deficit was released to 6.8 percent, and now he mentioned 3.9 percent, which he also considers to be a great deal. I would add that 3.9 percent is also likely to be unsustainable, since two of the credit rating agencies are talking about 4.3 percent and 4.4 percent, respectively. With regard to his criticism of the budget, as at the committee meeting, I will now note that György Matolcsy is a member of the Fiscal Council, and I will ask the rhetorical question, everyone will be included in the record, and he will be sure that if these budgets ran away like this in 21th, 22nd, 23rd, what he said to them and why he signed the regulation budget of 23rd, why he gave his name to the budgets of 21th and 22th. He had the right to veto, Mr. President, and yet he gave his name to all of them. Mr President, today, he repeated his dilemma and problem, in which I very much agree with him, but perhaps in the conclusions I do not literally quote the sentence of 5 December that, at the start of inflation, the central bank is on the brakes, and the government is on gas, around 18 percent inflation, which will be the highest inflation in the European Union next year. That's what he said last December. We know the reasons for this, as the President said. Then I just have one question. Since György Matolcsy is known under an alias as the Prime Minister's right-hand man, I have to ask the question: can the financial government be the left hand, the bank president is the right hand, and one party is the gas and the other is the brake? What hope can Hungarian society have when walking into an economic recession, if the President of the Hungarian National Bank and the Hungarian Government represent the opposite economic principles? This was repeated here today, Mr. President. I suppose my fellow Members will even quote what has been said literally. I also consider it very important that we actually faced the fact that Hungarian society was not informed about these processes on 5 December and today. In fact, on December 5th and today, it was discovered that there is an extremely noticeable and sharp economic philosophy difference between the Hungarian National Bank and the government. The President did not give an answer as to whether there could be some synchronization between the two institutions in relation to the year 23. He also talked about it today, and I'm trying to quote today's sentence that we're in a financial trap. That's what he said today, and on December 5th, he said that we are the 4-5th most financially vulnerable country in the world. So the President is in sync with himself, painting the same terrible scenario, the same horror that he painted to us on December 5th. Between December 5th and March 8th, nothing happened, nothing was done to change this terrible situation? Where are we? Mr President, he did not refer to these figures, but I would like to look back on the fact that very often we hear that the National Bank is not responsible for the exchange rate, but the President of the Bank has a special responsibility for the strength of the forint, and for inflation, as the law says. Several statistics have been published in the last few days, all of which came in March. Number one: retail data. I don't know, they've had time to cross over, and the volume of retail sales has decreased by 4.5 percent in one year. That's not good news. It is not good news either that yesterday, March 7th, is that industrial production has also decreased. It is also not good news that according to OECD statistics 38 countries are members of this international organisation, not only the European Union has the highest inflation rate among the OECD countries, the OECD average is 9.2 percent. We've learned that the current account has a high deficit of around 8 percent. The Hungarian economy is suffering from a productivity trap, as we have heard. The confusion in the performance, in today's performance, the last time, is that the bank president asks as a question whether there is a way out. I think that Parliament, the government and, by the way, Hungarian society would expect answers from the President of the Hungarian National Bank on what made the Hungarian economy so difficult. I also felt it as a deep blow at the time and now that it identifies the Hungarian food industry as one of the sources of inflation, in contrast to government communication. I have lived my life in the knowledge that Hungary, the pantry of Europe, can supply twice as many people with processed food... [[Dr. István Apáti: Three times!]] Thank you three times, Congressman, three times as much. I have to find out from the bank president that the Hungarian food industry is on the bottom, and in productivity, I believe, only Bulgaria is behind us. It's a shame, though. I would react very carefully to the question of price caps, somehow the way he reacted, only he cannot turn away from it. On December 5, he announced that the institution of the price cap was a faulty institution. Shouldn't the Hungarian government have indicated this in time not to go into this street, because it is a bad, inexplicable institution from an economic point of view, completely contrary to all market economy principles and practices? After that, we learn from the bank president that it is a faulty product, and what goes against the entire government communication is that he says: if this is carried out, Hungarian inflation will certainly continue to rise by 2-3 percent. He is responsible for it, and now he is pushing this issue away as a distinguished stranger. I would like to respond to some of the comments made by the President in his presentation today, which is actually related to his 5th and his current report. Now, to say the least, I would just like to respond to your little remarks that the President has made. One of his comments, he started saying that we handled Covid well. This should not have been said, because, on the one hand, from a health point of view, I am not sure, but I will be acceptable, on the other hand, I am not satisfied in the economic sense, because if you recall the Kurzarbeit institution, it did not help a lot of traders and hosts, thousands of people were destroyed, not to mention the complexity of the measure and the late introduction. I don't agree with you being treated well. You should ask the gas stations in the country what they've been through at the time when the fuel had a price cap. He quoted Demján Sándor, which was particularly sensitive to me. In this regard, I can only say that it is one thing that they did not listen to Demján Sándor, but if Sándor Demján were alive, he would not be satisfied with this monetary policy and this financial policy. To conclude, I would like to quote from him, Mr Matolcsy said today that without reforms, we are a country without progress, without reforms. Well, I have to ask you that since 2013, since the President of the Hungarian National Bank, he has been silently and without saying a word, he has tolerated no comprehensive reform in this country and has even mentioned education and health. [[10.00]] If the bank president was so clear about Hungary's lack of reform, shouldn't he have done something to get these large distribution systems out of this deadlock in some way? And then let's get to the point, and that is one of my final statements, that the Hungarian National Bank is responsible for the forint's strength and price stability in the Act on the National Bank of Hungary. We reached 25,7 percent in January/January, didn't we? I don't know, my fellow Members have already had the opportunity to look into the statistics today, and KSH has published its first briefing today. I know it's women's day and it's a holiday, but the KSH stats show 25.4 percent. It may be hurrah-optimism, of course, that it is 0.3 percent smaller than it was in January, but I think it will be very, very difficult not to achieve one-digit inflation by artificial means, when inflation is above 25 percent in the first two months of the year, food price inflation continues to exceed 43 percent in February. I am therefore sorry that Mr President has left, because I have asked a lot of questions, and what he said in December is very important, I would also like to ask that there is a way out of this situation. Now I ask you how there is a way out of this situation, and I am very curious to know what way the Hungarian National Bank's current representative will draw us out, what a reassuring way out. Thank you very much for your attention, thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. [[Applause from the opposition ranks.]]
u2023-03-08-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform my fellow Members that, if anyone does not know, Vice-President Barnabas Virág represents the National Bank of Hungary during the debate. I now address the lead speaker of the KDNP, Congressman Nacha Lőrinc. Here you go.
u2023-03-08-9	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Vice President, The report before us is about the activities of the Hungarian National Bank in 2021. It is 2023 now, because of the laws submitted at the end of last year's session in response to Parliament's negotiations with the European Commission, this proposal for a resolution has no longer taken place, and we have therefore tried to discuss this during the first part of the year. If we recall, it was a little long ago, a lot of things have happened since then in the world and in Hungary. In 2021, even the whole world and so Hungary continued to fight the recent waves of the Covid-19 pandemic, while at the same time helping to protect themselves from the arrival of the first doses of vaccinations by Christmas 2020, and from January 2021 we organized and implemented one of Europe's fastest vaccination campaigns with health workers. Thanks to this rapid and successful vaccination campaign, we have become the leaders of Europe in terms of economic re-opening and re-launching social life. As a result, in 2021, with all previous records broken, a 7.1 percent increase in GDP was achieved in Hungary. The last time we heard numbers above 7 per cent of the economy was during the Gyurcsány government, only then was the general government deficit above 7 per cent, not economic growth. This Hungarian figure, the 7.1 percent GDP growth record, exceeded the average growth rate of the Member States of the European Union, which was 5.3 percent in 2021. The measures and programmes of the central bank have also contributed to achieving high economic growth. In order to facilitate crisis management, in 2021 the central bank paid 250 billion HUF dividends from its surplus reserve into the central budget, and the central bank's programmes also increased the tax revenues of public finances. In 2021, Magyar Nemzeti Bank extended the purchase of corporate bonds under the growth bond scheme to securities issued by public companies, as well as to HUF 3000 bn of the expansion loan programme. On 6 July 2021, the MNB announced the strategy for the Green Central Bank Toolkit, which aims to provide a single framework for the possible directions on which the MNB will be able to transpose climate protection and environmental sustainability aspects into its monetary policy instruments. Accordingly, the MNB launched two new initiatives: the NHP Green Loan Scheme and the Greenmortgage Letter Purchase Programme. By the summer of 2021, the global economic relaunch after Covid resulted in transport and supply difficulties worldwide, resulting in a risk of inflation. In response to rising inflation risks, the Monetary Council launched a cycle of interest increases to ensure price stability, prevent long-term effects of inflation risks and anchor inflation expectations. Subsequently, in July and August, the Monetary Council decided to increase the central bank base rate, the overnight deposit rate and the overnight and one week covered loan rate by 30 basis points, while in September and October the Monetary Council decided to increase it by 15 basis points. In response to the higher inflation rate and the risk of increasing second-round effects from November, the Council continued to tighten monetary conditions again at a faster pace, thus raising the base rate again by 30-30 basis points in the last two months of the year. The base rate increased by 180 basis points to 2.40 per cent by the end of the year. After the multi-annual fulfilment of the central bank inflation target in 2021, mainly due to external effects, domestic inflation increased from 2.7 per cent in January to 7.4 per cent in December and 5.1 per cent on an annual average. It can therefore be seen that the MNB has used its toolbox to combat inflation, but has failed to win in the complex global economic crisis. In order to protect the Hungarian people, the Hungarian government introduced the pricing policy in the autumn of 2021. The government introduced a food price stop for six basic foods, the price of which cannot be higher than the price applied on 15 October 2021. Last year, the food price stop was extended to eggs and potatoes by the government's two other product products. The Hungarian motorists in Europe were individually protected by the petrol stop for 13 months with the beginning of November 15, 2021. At the end of 2021 and at the beginning of 2022, inflation was caused by the re-launch, re-organization, transformation of supply and production chains after Covid at global level and by the drastic increase in energy and transport costs worldwide. However, the war that broke out on 24 February 2022 brought new challenges, and we entered the age of danger. Brussels has used sanctions against Russia for the war, which it has promised will bring the end of the war, and even if it has its teeth tight, but all Europeans must take their part in the suffering. Brussels has caused war and sanctioned inflation and an energy crisis in Europe by imposing sanctions on energy sources. The formula is simple: war and sanctions equal inflation. The sanctions took HUF 4000 billion out of the Hungarians' pocket in 2022, and Hungarian companies, the Hungarian state and Hungarian families spent so much more on energy in Hungary because of the sanctions. And even so, Europe's cheapest electricity and gas protects Hungarian consumers to the level of average consumption, making Hungarian families pay the lowest gas and lowest electricity prices throughout the European Union to the level of average consumption. We may not be able to completely eliminate inflation this year, because its causes are not in Hungary, the problem has been unleashed by Brussels with the sanctions imposed on energy sources. I think it is quite clear, ladies and gentlemen, that we do not agree on everything, the Fidesz-KDNP government and the central bank do not agree on everything. [[Dr. István Apáti: You can see it!]] At the same time, I would like to thank the central bank for its work, and I would like to thank the staff of the central bank for their work. I think we have a common fight, we are dependent on each other in the fight against inflation. On the part of the National Assembly and on the part of the governing parties, I can at any rate state our expectation that the MNB should do its job to help the government and the National Assembly reduce sanctioned inflation, since it is important that we cut inflation back to one-digit figures by the end of the year. I therefore think that, despite all our debates, we should thank the Central Bank for its work and work together to ensure that Hungarian people, the performance of the Hungarian economy and the security of Hungarian workers continue to be guaranteed, because this interdependence in the fight against inflation continues to exist, which is why we are counting on the central bank. I think it is clear that Parliament can set out its expectations for the central bank to do everything in its power to combat inflation, to achieve the common goal of one-digit inflation by the end of the year. That's how we're gonna keep working. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[10.10]]
u2023-03-08-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Zoltán Vajda, who will present his speech here from the pulpit of the platform. We'll wait for Mr. President of the Commission to come over here. You have the floor, please.
u2023-03-08-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Colleagues, First, let's record what we're supposed to be talking about here today. In principle, the Magyar Nemzeti Bank's business report and report for 2021, this is our topic on the agenda. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Practically!]] No, my fellow Member, Nacsa, who shouted that this was practically the subject. If he was watching the central bank president you appointed, he wasn't talking about that either. He assumed that you could read and read the report. He said he thought we read it. So, Mr President of the Central Bank did not talk about the report, but here at the beginning of the debate on the report, let us set out what President Matolcsy had done. He did what he did to you on December 5th, only he raised the stakes. In your committee, at the Economic Committee meeting on 5 December, is that an unusual term for the NER system? on 5 December last year, the President of the Central Bank did so at the meeting of the Economic Committee. He already made a devastating criticism of the economic policy that Mihály Varga and the former vice-president of the President, Márton Nagy, proposed by the Prime Minister, Viktor Orbán. In my opinion, the President of the Bank has been at a level here in the last few minutes, because not only has he raised the stake in his criticisms, he has made even more harsh criticisms, but I also think that the case of insubordination is on the rise, because he has already named Prime Minister here that when he talks about government criticism, he is certainly expressing criticism about the Prime Minister. And let's not forget your last sentences to the President of the Central Bank, before you walked off the pulpit, I literally wrote that down for myself. He said in the end, that was the last couple's thought: â was the President of the Central Bank offended? Frustrated? Did you have a fight with the Prime Minister? No, God forbid. There's a fundamental conflict between the central bank and the government. , said President Matolcsy here in this House. So, let's look again at the type of criticisms that the President of the Central Bank made at the Economic Committee meeting on 5 December and here in Parliament today. I would like to quote some literally to you, say, from the committee meeting on 5 December. My first literal quote is the following: once again, you will hear the words of Matolcsy:, There was a negative development, and this is that in 2021 the budget accumulated a deficit of 6.6 percent in proportion to GDP, compared to the Polish budget, which closed the year with a deficit of 1.9 percent. So in 21, the lack of budget went away, and this was a mistake in economic policy in an economic historical mirror. When inflation started, the central bank stepped on the brakes and the government stepped on the gas. This will lead to an average inflation rate of 14.5 per cent in 22 and the latest figure will probably go up 21.1 and inflation will start very slowly only in the first half of next year, but still in 23, 15 per cent, yes, 15 per cent is expected according to the baseline scenario. This is the peace scenario, if this is not the scenario, then inflation will be 18 percent, which is the highest inflation in the European Union as a whole. Once again, the last sentences were literal quotes from the thoughts of President Matolcsy on 5 December last year. We know the reasons for this, however, Mr President Matolcsy continued, one of the reasons is that in 21 the Hungarian state's two institutions defining inflation policy, the government and the central bank, decided on different paths. Former economic policy coordination between the government and the central bank has been disrupted. I have to tell you straight, I still quote:. If we continue to pretend that there are no very negative macroeconomic developments in Hungary, we will lose the years of 2020. The quote continues:. Hungary is the fourth to fifth most vulnerable country in the world financially. To return to this group was a waste, and there were many wrong decisions in this, Mr. President said on 5 December. And today he went on because he made a detailed list of the mistakes they made. President-in-Office of the Central Bank said that it was a wrong turn of government economic policy, talking about the financial trap, including the interest trap. He talked about the trap about working capital, how wrong it is to attract companies of little added value, and he also mentioned that battery companies are not like that. And he talked about the energy trap, where he also named Prime Minister. Allow me to quote further from the words of the President of the Central Bank in December. My further quote:... wasn't the right person who said that we would be local exceptions, unless in the sense that some of our macroeconomic data listed us today as one of the most vulnerable countries in the financial system. Such is the high deficit in the current account, which shows a deficit of around 8 percent, such as the high deficit in the budget, which once again was a serious economic policy malpractice. It's also a quote from him. I wouldn't say the following quote literally, but in December he was also critical of the food industry, and he is saying that we could have an excellent food industry, one of the most uncompetitive in the region. And one more quote at the end of the quote, but then I'll continue my speech. One more quote from the President of the Central Bank from December:. We have to face the fact that the Hungarian economy is in a crisis situation, and we have to face the fact that the financial and macroeconomic indicators in the European Union are among the 1st and 2nd worst, next year and this year, I just add that they will definitely be the worst. We must face the fact that if Hungary continues this economic policy, there will be stagflation. You can change that this year, not next year. He said last year, so it's for this year. And now, here in this House, the President of the Central Bank has dealt with the detailed presentation of stagflation. Then let's see... Mr President's wording at the end of last year was so dramatic, with such dramatic, devastating signs, in his view Hungarian economic policy. I'm telling you: crisis situation, most vulnerable country, second largest twin deficit in the EU, economic policy malpractice. And he also said at the end of last year that the government could correct me in 22nd year, in 23rd year it will be too late this year. So I have the right to ask myself that months later, here at the beginning of March, I would take this opportunity to wish happy women's day to everyone here and anyone who listens to us, so it is Zoltán's day here on Women's Day, by the way, on March 8th. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: The man who greeted you.]] months after you said that, Mr. President, is your criticism still justified? I see that he had to give more devastating criticisms, so we went months without the government accepting the criticism of the central bank. I see that the President of the Central Bank felt that he had not corrected the government, that he had not taken his advice, and that he was therefore experiencing an even more serious crisis than he was talking about. And once again, he said that he didn't speak out of anger, but he saw a conflict of principle. The President of the Central Bank did not express self-criticism. I look at the Vice-President here, and I hope that he will interpret to Mr. President of the Central Bank my idea because I see that he has gone, so he has told us his own, but he will not listen to us, do so, Mr. Vice-President, to interpret to the President of the Central Bank that sometimes self-criticism increases credibility even more. Because if a person can see his own activities with self-criticism, then his criticism of others will be even stronger. I'll help you: let's remember an anniversary, a round anniversary. A few days ago, on the 4th of March, it was ten years ago that György Matolcsy took the chair of the MNB. Let's look at what this decade is characterised by, Mr. President of the Central Bank of Matolcsy's decade. Maybe he can't deny he's had a lot of scandals. The first, perhaps, which lasted years of scandal, began on a whim in 13 years. This is the establishment of central bank foundations and the recapitalisation of 270 billion at that time. The inaccessible spending of foundation money created that fidesz argument, right, remember? that the property allocated to the foundations loses its public money character. This rhyme grew into an anti-NER motto and a rhyme of demonstrations. Of course, following judicial and constitutional decisions, it turned out that no, no, it did not lose its public money character, that foundations and their businesses should provide data on their operation and management. [[10.20]] This was mainly financed by real estate transactions until recently, which would be quite worrying even if there were no transactions of concern, but that's why there were worrying transactions; let's say, the case of the Post Palace in Széll Kálmán tér, which was purchased in 16 by a company of central bank foundations, the Optimus Penta foundation loan. The company then took out a loan for renovation with fund guarantees and bought the Penta in the spring of 19 in the Post Office, shutting down this particular public fund. Well, there was also news about the family members of the central bank president; his dear son, Ádám Matolcsy, is well-known, so he is, with the name of the press, a NER knight or a NER rider. She is stuffed with hot cars, state and central bank orders, she and her circle of friends are part of the new generation of NER entrepreneurs. For example, it is his friend, István Kry, whose hand passed through the once more beautiful days of Origo, a news portal that has now become the online flagship of the Fidesz KESMA propaganda machine. So, Ádám Matolcsy and his circle can not only make it, but they can also leave well because many of the entrepreneurs linked to Ádám Matolcsy left the Growth Credit Bank under MNB's supervision with good timing before the otherwise falling in. So the most important question is, at the end of the day, because I see that I am running out of time before I make any further criticism of the activities of the President of the Central Bank: what is the primary purpose of the central bank? Well, the fight against inflation would be his goal. So when I talk about a lack of self-criticism, it is also worth talking about how Mr President of the Central Bank sees his own role in the fact that we have by far the highest inflation in Europe, especially food inflation. Note that today's figures are 25.4 percent inflation, yes, a little bit lower than the previous data, but it still means that inflation is stuck at this level. So, this is the real question, I think, that this high inflation is stuck, let's hope, sooner or later, on a one-digit level; or you will succeed in taking it down to the central bank goal, two to four percent in the next year and a half. 'Cause, you know, it's kind of the central bank's foresight horizon. Because I think the consensus of experts is clear that one-digit inflation is not particularly difficult. Perhaps the President of the Central Bank will be able to meet the Ukazás issued by the Prime Minister to achieve one-digit inflation by December. I myself, of course, am rooting for this, because it is in our common interest to reduce it. This may even be fulfilled, but when can you reach the target of 3 percent after that? I would compare this problem to the time when a very overweight person starts to lose weight. I know that: I lost my first 15 pounds relatively easily, but after that, it's very, very difficult to fight for every kilo. I see the fight against inflation as something like this, the first dose is very easy to deliver, but the real challenge is to take every pound off. This is what I see here, too, is the challenge of one-digit inflation, so, let's say, about 9 percent to the 3 percent laid down in the MNB Act. In any case, the central bank's communication seems determined to subordinate everything to the suppression of inflation and the strengthening of the forint, quite rightly. This year, some interest cuts may or may not take place. I'm looking at Mr. Vice President here again, who the boss put in a very difficult position when his boss announced publicly that the interest rate increase cycle was complete at 13 percent. I regretted that you had a rather difficult night in Washington when you had to announce at night that 13 is 13, but now we're going to come up with another indicator, and they just had to raise a similar indicator by 500 basis points to 18 per cent, so that you wouldn't formally lie to your boss, but you certainly had to save what you could with another indicator, and then they only raised the interest rate to 18 per cent. The interest that is not free; this is paid by the Hungarian people, the expensive interest rate, this country risk premium that we have to pay. So, I hope that the interest rate reduction can take place this year, but I think it can be excluded that in the next two years it would be possible to return to the loose, growth-supporting economic policy that marked the central bank. But since I would like to end my thoughts with this, Mr. President of the Central Bank, because my time has run out, so since Mr. President of the Central Bank will have to hand over his seat to someone else in 2025, it is a good question whether this will succeed until the President of the Central Bank leaves, or it will be the age of high inflation that will characterize György Matolcsy's departure. I would only use my last 20 seconds to record once more the last sentences of his speech to the President of the Central Bank in this House, which is, once again, insulted by the President of the Central Bank, frustrated? Did you have a fight with the Prime Minister? No, God forbid. There is a fundamental conflict between the central bank and the government, said the György Matolcsy, who, once again, I would just like to say that if I hadn't already said so, is a member of the Board of Budgets and certified the budget by signing it. You should have been self-critic here, too. Thank you so much for letting me tell you. [[Applause from the opposition.]]
u2023-03-08-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-03-08-13	Mr President, Dear House, At the beginning of my speech, I would like to wish you a happy women's day for all the women in the room and following us. To be perfectly honest, I didn't prepare for today's debate as it did, I didn't think that the December György Matolcsy's justice would continue on such a front and in such a public presence. I don't think the media is prepared for this, either, but I'm sure we've had some historical moments, because I've had some really big ratings and criticisms. The biggest problem, however, is when György Matolcsy says that there is a fundamental conflict between the government and him. So if it's really an insult or some kind of personal conflict or a situation that goes to such a rhetorical front because of different bites or spikes, I'm saying that you can pull the spikes out, you can resolve the communication conflict, and that's a much easier situation to handle. On the other hand, the conflict in principle between the central bank and the government undoubtedly makes a lot of things impossible. If there is a conflict between government and central bank, inflation is unmanageable. If there is a conflict of principle between a government and the central bank, then the exchange rate of the forint cannot be settled, and I would also warn my opposition fellow Members against finding, or trying to make, some opposition confirmation in the Matolcsy criticism, or such a victory, because the national economy is so important as to be so important that there is no counterintelligence here. Here, the counterintelligence is treason, so we all have to cheer for our economic indicators and our everyday life to be on a sustainable path, and it's not for cattle. The fact is that, of course, although 85 percent of the Matolcsy statements are agreed by all oppositions, the real problem is this conflict of principle; and the other most important thing that President Matolcsy has highlighted is that there is a plan. I could argue a lot about the era of success that he called the 2010s, the fact that the quotes that were passed were useful, how much they represented the national interest. We can also find some statistical magic behind the one million new jobs, because we talked about this many times in the early 2010s; previously, student workers were not counted on, and then public workers were not counted on, as did Hungarians working abroad, often working abroad, and statistics also expect this line to happen, who works an hour a month or an hour a week. So it seems that the myth of one million new jobs is distorted a great deal if we conduct a statistical examination, but otherwise I do not argue with the aim itself, and that is a good goal, and it is obvious that if we can even approach full employment, it is very good. Mr President mentioned our other eternal debate, the forinting, and here the forinting of foreign exchange loans must be found; well, it is called a success story, quite an amazing falsification of history, the facts, because this government has made a deal with banks, has made a deal with executives, has put forints at the market rate. On this, the Hungarian National Bank made a huge profit, and this huge profit, on which they were sitting for a very long time, never returned it to the families who had been evicted and destroyed by executives. I resent anyone calling this a success story, it's outrageous! The third point was the reduction of corporation tax to 9 per cent. Well, let's take a closer look at this. In the case of a multi-company, this was undoubtedly a large concession, but it is a tax rate from 15 to 9, which means that we leave a little over half of it, and the multi-company benefits very well. [[10.30]] But in the case of a Hungarian small enterprise, what did the same mean? One, or one percent tax relief. This perfectly shows this government's attitude towards multinationals and Hungarian businesses, and the central bank has also assisted in this process. So what György Matolcsy calls a success story, I think he's bleeding from a thousand wounds, and I can argue with that. What we do agree, however, is that the 2010s meant a relatively calm and very, very resourceful period, without a doubt with tremendous scope for the government to intervene, and at this time this government did not really do anything, let us say, about the opening up of the Austrian or German labour market, about how it motivates and tries to keep Hungarian young people who, I repeat, have often gone to the West under duress or because of the pressure to repay the brutal credit burden here. So he left an emigration spiral, let go of this government, and he didn't put out any programs against it. But the 2010s, let's be clear, were happy times of peace from an economic point of view compared to what we have now, a boiling period. The fact is that by 2019, however, it has been seen that we are facing a very different decade, a recession is approaching, we are under inflationary pressure, and we need a completely different type of economic policy approach. In 2019, as György Matolcsy said, there was a clear break: the MNB stepped on the brake and the government stepped on the gas. The inflationary disaster we are living in today, which, by the way, creates extra taxes on family support, the purchases of children, and causes difficulties for all Hungarians, started there. It is quite amazing when György Matolcsy is tearing apart the government's otherwise boring panel of sanctioned inflation, as it makes it clear that that inflationary pressure was already in place long before the armed conflict started, the EU's top five-six inflation figures were already in Hungary. Thus, the current effects have been placed on a terribly bad base, and the inflation that is, by the way, part of what György Matolcsy also said is that our country is in an unsustainable financial trap and a productivity trap. He also said that inflation will be with us for a long time, and that the 2023 budget is also an inflation budget, it is not doing enough, it is not doing anything to mitigate the effects. But listening to Mr. President's words here, we have put our heads together, and it is indeed one of the most shocking data to say that the Hungarian economy with Romania has been head-to-head with the Hungarian economy, but it is now possible that we have been preceded in this area as well. And when the Hungarian food industry is able to produce the second weakest productivity data in the Union, it is something quite amazing in a country based on agriculture, which was indeed Europe's pantry, but at least it would be suitable for self-sufficiency now, and it is said to be national by a government that has not done enough and has done enough for this in 12 years. And we do see that although such a specific lack of goods is very rare, affordability is also a security of supply factor. So when 500-600 HUF is a piece of snake pickle and a pack of peppers, 5-6 pieces, over 1000 HUF, say, in an Austrian food chain, I say that this is also a security of supply issue, because a lot of families will not be able to buy it and put it on the table for their children at this price. And when György Matolcsy says that there is a reform desert in Hungary and that there is undoubtedly a reform desert, he also thinks that Hungary's exposure has not been reduced and that it has not been possible to achieve a permanent success in the availability of basic foods. And yes, Matolcsy tells us in what respect the price cap system is harmful, it should have been out by 1 January at the latest, but then the Fidesz and KDNP lead speakers don't tell us how they interact with multi-company companies. What makes the price cap spin inflation? Well, I'm asking you to stop the price of six or seven products, but there are only six or seven thousand products at which the trader is free to tamper with, typically the wholesaler. The price of six or seven thousand products will include the temporary loss caused to the price cap. And what did the Government of Hungary do? Did you call for supervision to check these processes or to start them or to impose fines on those who have shown abuse of consumer confidence? No. I ask: By the way, did the Hungarian National Bank take action on this matter, or did you ask the government to keep an eye on this area, protect the wallets of Hungarian consumers? Because it's a consumer issue. In the portfolio of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank, consumer protection is well known and, otherwise, quite right there. As far as the reform desert is concerned, it must therefore be said that the price cap system, although perhaps a reform, seems to be a reform in the wrong direction and highlights the conflict of principle between the government and the central bank. I have to argue with one more subject. The concept of "Kurzarbeit' arose in connection with the Covid period and the often totally unjustified restrictions. I ask my opposition colleagues not to try to compare, say, the German or Austrian Kurzarbeite, the salary replacement of entrepreneurs and workers with what happened in Hungary, that at the end of November they promised that we might help with the replacement of wages, and that there were some where the relevant amount had not yet come into contact with the accounts at the beginning of February. There was a family in West Hungary where one of the family members who worked in Austria, sitting at home during the closures, received 70-80-90 percent of each monthly salary, his own brother, who worked in Hungary, did not receive a penny. So let us not compare them because the problem is not that the MNB has launched an 11 000 billion-dollar package to spin the economy in this undoubtedly difficult situation. The problem is that very, very little of this has been achieved by micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and by Hungarian workers carrying this national economy on their backs. They provide two thirds of the jobs, please, not the spoiled multi-companies, which receive all kinds of tax incentives and non-refundable subsidies by one hundred billion. It is no longer a condition to create jobs. Hungarians should provide the same discounts. And by the way, if the MNB participates or launches a similar programme, it could also draw the legislator's attention to the fact that Hungarians should be the first in Hungary, the Hungarian micro-, small- and medium-sized enterprise without which there is no national economy, they have been carrying this store on their backs for decades, and they will continue to do so in the coming decades. It is very important to talk about something that has somehow been left out of the Matolcsy Expo, and this is the exchange rate of the forint. This is one of the most brutal special taxes that Hungarian families pay, the price of weak forints. We are talking about a thousand billion-dollar special tax on an annual basis without exaggeration. The particularly unpleasant thing about this is that the first Orbán government took over government in 2010 at a price of around 266 forints, and before news of the first armed conflict, we could see that perhaps the euro price was around 366 forints. This went up to record level 430, but he still couldn't get back to the pre-war level, and 2010 is very, very far away. The MNB has a historical responsibility here, along with the government: they deliberately released the forint for many years and did not intervene sufficiently. The fact is that the government did very well because it did not deal with the Hungarian families, nor with the fact that after a stroller or a child's clothing imported from abroad, families pay a much higher price than they should; it was concerned that its strategic allies, multi-companies, exporting multi-companies would benefit, that they would obviously be able to do more in this market for their stronger currency, and that fewer salaries would have to be distributed in their own currency. The weak forint came in very, very handy for them, and the Hungarian families paid for it in decades. Then, when the National Bank connected and undoubtedly took steps to stabilise the exchange rate, it could do so only very late, very low efficiency and terribly expensively. I'm going to see Mr. Vice President. Have you quantified the extra cost of trying to stabilize the forint? So, calculated for hundreds of billions, how much did it cost, say, during the previous one-year period? We are talking about 21 here, so it is very difficult to draw a parallel between the exchange rate movements at that time and the current ones, but I would still like to know how much you follow this, the brutal, amazing premium that Hungary has to pay and, by the way, has to pay, compared to the fact that the exchange rate was arranged in happy times of peace, and if it couldn't have been cemented, it would have moved on a predictable track. In this context, we have presented our proposal earlier that the exchange rate of the forint, the protection of the national currency, should be guaranteed even at the statutory level. We are interested in the position of the Hungarian National Bank on this. We know, and we don't want to put it in the laws at the rate of the forint, it's obvious. We rarely praise the Fundamental Law from the opposition side, but I'm doing it now because there's a chapter that I think is good. This is the public finance chapter. It's not just a chapter, but I'd like to compliment you on that. The public financial chapter and the fact that there are national assets in it, I think a positive public financial constitution should be available for every national economy. [[10.40]] Now, if we're protecting national wealth at the statutory level, then why don't we protect the factor that affects the value of national assets the most? Because this is the purchasing power of the national currency, what to do with it. If we do not do this, even at the statutory level, it is not possible to guarantee that we are also defending the exchange rate of the forint, and then it will not be against the law if someone knowingly releases and weakens the forint, as it has been for more than ten years. All in all, we agree with a lot of things and critical elements, we have a lot of other comments on this, but the biggest problem is that it is not an insult and not a thorn, but a genuine conflict of principle, which makes it impossible to settle the rate of the forint, to manage inflation, it is a very, very serious problem for the future. That is why we demand that the government and the central bank clarify their position, finally find a common voice, because Hungarian workers and Hungarian entrepreneurs would demand that they be able to work, live and thrive in a predictable environment after many years. Thank you. [[Zoltán Vajda applauds.]]
u2023-03-08-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the group of our country is Mr István Apáti. I'll wait for the congressman to put his microphone on. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2023-03-08-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, I wish all the ladies, those present and those who are not present, a happy women's day. And, well, indeed, we found a political history curio here this morning in the plenary sitting room of the Hungarian Parliament, because, as I would say, Mr. President of the Central Bank has made a full or almost full, exploratory confession; let us say, not so much to himself. I've missed self-criticism, too, and it seems like he's throwing away responsibility as a hot potato, and he seems to want to present himself as one of the prime minister's victims. In any case, it is commendable and forward-looking that with unusual honesty compared to the average of the last 13 years, the historic summit has been revealed here with decisive honesty in several details of the reality of the other great classic. And I would like to rebut a few of the many pro-government lies that Congressman Nacsa speaks of with so much heat, but what he says for a long time will not be true. Here I would point to inflation and the relationship between war, sanctions and inflation because my eyes are so stinging, and all these lies are so unbearable, because at the level of which they think Hungarian people are stupid, it is really intolerable. Here in the Csenger-Mátészalka area, there is an old saying that as long as there is a forest, there will be a bird. But don't think of us as birds and idiots, Congressman Nacsa, because this is really outrageous. So the fact that you mention that war plus sanctions is equal to inflation is not true. That's not true in this way. Because you said it three minutes earlier when you were telling the truth, so you didn't pay any attention, and you were right about putting in more price stops in the autumn of 2021. The war broke out on February 24, 2022. Yesterday, even this was denied in connection with the debate on the Russian-Ukrainian war. They doubted when the fuel stop was first introduced around October-November 2021, several food stops, he said, were introduced in autumn 2021, so there is no correlation between inflation explosion, inflation loss, flight and the outbreak of war. [[Nacsa Lőrinc intervenes several times.]] There was a rise in inflation, a rise in almost hyperinflationary levels, and a war broke out long after that. The other is the context of sanctions. On the one hand, it is now becoming less and less denied, and perhaps Prime Minister Viktor Orbán voted in favour of most of the sanctions. At the same time, their second statement is that Hungary has been exempted from sanctions for oil and natural gas. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: To transport.]] For transportation, yes, he was granted immunity. They also said that we bought gas from the Russians at the fifth price. This was said by the Prime Minister himself in February of last year, two weeks before the war started. At the beginning of February 2022, Viktor Orbán said that we had concluded a long-term contract with the Russians on natural gas at the fifth. Then tell me why we pay HUF 747 for a cubic meter of gas over the so-called average consumption of 1729 cubic meters per year, which you have underestimated. Then who lied when he lied? How much did you buy gas from the Russians? Why are data and related contracts not published? Well, there are a lot of contradictions here, and don't let them get away with it again because that's the most disgusting thing about this operation, Congressman Nacsa, that you are only responsible for success! Let's just say there are fewer and fewer of them, unfortunately, but you're only responsible for success.
u2023-03-08-16	Excuse me, Congressman. I'm asking you not to take it personal.
u2023-03-08-17	I'm not being personal. I have no problem with Congressman Nacsa, only in such an irritable way does this , war plus sanction equal inflation,... this composition is terrible this way, in this form, and it is not true!
u2023-03-08-18	But I'm asking you not to take it personal.
u2023-03-08-19	All right. I'm not personal, Mr. President. Believe me, I'm not. It's just that there's a very interesting contradiction between what you described and what you said today. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] They're not arguing with me, they're arguing with President Matolcsy, and I can see they're frozen here in the central bank's report, and the machine's stuck, because the truth is really coming up. So inflation got out long before that. Otherwise, the Covid crisis is being dealt with incorrectly, and by 2021 we are slowly coming to terms with the fact that the Covid crisis has also led to mistreatment. I do not want to bring here the vaccination policy madness that you have taken over in connection with the world project Covid, and what internal injustices this has had in relation to employers, employees and Hungarian entrepreneurs; and what risk they put Hungarian people at risk when, for example, vaccinations were said to help prevent transmission of the virus from spreading. Then the CEO of Pfizer confessed last fall that they had never tested vaccinations for this. And you have claimed that it is good, as you say, and the way it has been dictated to you internationally, but it has also been mistreated economically. He's been mistreated economically, at least admit it. That would increase your size if you could talk about it at all. That would make you more sympathetic to the people, if they could say, once in the past 13 years, that we had done something wrong, that we had missed something, that we were wrong, that we had misjudged it, that we had misjudged it. This honesty of György Matolcsy, of course, may soon be revealed why he was caught or taken over by this fit of honesty last December and this year, at the beginning of March; of course, however, he is not completely relieved of the responsibility, which he has now taken for the second time. This is why inflation broke out in 2021; it had nothing to do with it, even then it could not have been conceptually for the war. But not just to dwell on the past on the 2021 report, I would like to hear a lot about it, either in response to the Vice-President's response to what is expected to be realistic in 2023 and possibly in early 2024 in relation to energy prices. Because now we can fight politically, fight a communication war or confront, but it is important to show some direction here in the Hungarian Parliament and give people some hope of what food prices, electricity prices and gas prices can be expected. Because while Russia and the United States are at war on Ukraine's territory in order to create a new world order, it still needs to be eaten, lit and heated with something, somehow, at an affordable price. I also say this to Mr Vice-President, and I say to all the members of the Government that I should not just be targeting Mr Nacsa, because I really have no problem with him, so perhaps also a little Vice-President or President has overreacted, and I am asking all the pro-government Members, what is their plan in this regard, what is their idea in this regard. As you can't understand from what you've just said, how a cubic meter of gas can be underestimated during the artificially underestimated average consumption, because the real average consumption is not 1729 cubic metres per year, as you know, it makes the average Hungarian household's electricity consumption significantly higher than 2523 kilowatt hours, which is much higher than the average Hungarian household's electricity consumption, and they can only support it until now, they can hold the current price of 36 forints/kilowatts or the gas price of 102 forints per cubic metre, so the budget can no longer be stretched, because otherwise it would be permanently crooked. How does it cost 70 forints and 350 forints for businesses a kilowatt electricity when Paks produces it for 10 or 12 forints, and Paks is supposed to be able to meet nearly half of the country's needs? Then how do we pay this much for a kilowattor of electricity, and how do we pay that much for a cubic meter of gas? Or what I finished here yesterday about the Russian-Ukrainian war: you had 13 years of virtually full power, and MOL started drilling in Hungary last year that would significantly increase our self-sufficiency from gas? [[10.50]] Hungary uses 10-11 billion cubic metres of gas per year. We're practically up to 2 billion cubic metres, so we're probably 20 percent self-sufficient. And then it turns out that where MOL drills, from Vecses to Baja, we find more or less, but more than less natural gas. Or there's that hidden information no one's ever denied before, the whole country's been seen as a bird for 33 years now as having 600 billion cubic meters of gas in the macoon ditch. 600 billion cubic meters! It would ensure the country's self-sufficiency for 60 years. And you have two-thirds power to do nothing... I'm going to ask you not to make any accusations: what have you done to get this concession back from the U.S.-Canadian Group? 'Cause if it's for something, it's worth fighting for. Because we can say it a hundred times, we will agree on how important it would be to switch to green energy and how important renewable energy sources are, how environmentally friendly they are, of course, but a good part of the average Hungarian will not have the money to build a household solar system with sufficient capacity for millions of forints, there is not enough money for people. Netly around HUF 340 thousand is the national gross... national net income, and I am already trying to convert it to net. In the northern and eastern counties of the country, people don't earn that much. Food inflation eats most of their money, and the real value of their salary is decreasing. They don't stand a chance of getting their family homes equipped with modern technology. In North and East Hungary, but even the average people living in South Transdanubia and the majority of Hungarian workers remain an unattainable dream, a puppet hunt to heat heat pump, install solar panels, and have domestic wind power plants. They don't have the money for this. The reality is that unfortunately, thanks to your failed economic policy, the vast majority of the Hungarian population will never be able to modernise their property the way it should be. And not only food but also energy supply will be a key issue, especially in the coming years. So we would be able to help them the most if we were to reduce the price of gas permanently, for example by increasing domestic self-sufficiency, but basically we could rely on ourselves in this regard, and otherwise in any way by reducing the price of gas and electricity. What can we expect from the central bank in this regard? And on this issue, on food and energy inflation, what is the exact wording of the opposite principle? Because it can be said that there is a conflict of principle between the central bank and the government, but György Matolcsy has also made a confession in this regard, but let us translate this: there is a conflict of principle between György Matolcsy and Viktor Orbán. Because as the prevailing wind in the government is the Prime Minister, so is the central bank practically equal to the central bank president György Matolcsy. So here there is, in fact, a serious conflict of principle between two men, Viktor Orbán and György Matolcsy. This is an accurate translation, translation into Hungarian or political translation of what the President of the Central Bank has said. If I were President Bánki Erik, I wouldn't worry about the banks at all, thank you very much, you're fine. About the banking situation in Hungary is what I used to quote from Gary Linener, that football is a game where 22 people chase the ball and the Germans always win at the end. That was true for a while, that's why there's trend shifts these days. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: We beat them!]] But it is equally true that in Hungary... Why did I say that? I said this because before Congressman Nacsa becomes unnecessarily outraged [[Interventions from the opposition: It is never unnecessary.]] Because in Hungary, banks can always benefit. They benefit from foreign exchange-based lending, which you did not rescue most of the foreign exchange-based debtors from, it was also a robbery story, it was a scam, a lot of people were left behind. In fact, one of the former members of the government turned out to be the most despicable criminal form... yet there is no judgment, I know, presumption of innocence, of course, but there is pretty clear evidence of Paul Völner's guilt. Not only were Hungarians not rescued from the trap of foreign credit, but they were left trapped in the trap and plundered. The former Deputy Minister of Justice has been involved in one of the biggest violations of Hungarian politics in the enforcement mafia case in the last 33 years, because there are many forms of crime, but this is one of the most disgusting when the most needy, the most defenseless, is being looted. And it goes in billion-dollar items, not 83 million plus 900 million, ladies and gentlemen, but billions of forints. And not all the guilty are on the defendant's bench, and not all the guilty are going to jail, unfortunately. So don't worry about the banks. The fact that businesses were supported by HUF 11 000 billion in 2020 and 2021 is very nice, but what is the distribution or distribution of this. If the vast majority of this has migrated to NER knights or the NER army's backyard, then distribution is far from following the policy of living and letting live. And that's one of the biggest problems that you've created over the past 13 years is that a small circle of businesses is bathed in milk and butter and honey, and the rest are either going to survive or not, the rest are going to starve or not. The HUF 11,000 billion was therefore unable to achieve the effect that we could reasonably have expected of such an amount. And by the way, the fact that the President of the Central Bank completely agrees with the Hungarian Movement is welcome. Finally! He finally noticed, he saw the woods from the tree. A predominantly agricultural country with God-given agricultural characteristics should base its future on food production, food processing and not on battery factories defined as a function of Chinese loans. But since my time is up, I will continue it in the next normal speech. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-03-08-20	Thank you very much, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. But in the next speeches, I also ask the Members to try their personal... [[Dr. István Apáti: I'm not personal!]] Congressman! He may have considered that it was not personal, and I considered that this speech was accompanied by a lot of personal edge. Let's not start a debate with that right now, because you don't have a chance to argue with me. [[Defiance.]] So thank you very much. I ask my fellow Members who would like to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] First, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Gréczy of the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-03-08-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, This morning is very instructive. But I wouldn't start by saying what György Matolcsy said, but that the government isn't here. No one's sitting in a velvet chair. Here is the annual account of the central bank, honoured by the former Minister of Economy of the Orbán government, who has already held a ministerial position in the first Orbán government, six economic wallets in the Orbán government, I believe that this is also a kind of world record of inflation, and no one, not the Minister of Finance, not the Minister of State, not the many economic ministers, the many state ministers, the deputy secretary of state, so-so-so secretary of state, has not come to hear the report of the central bank president. By the way, this indicates exactly the kind of conflict of interest or difference of opinion that György Matolcsy has just mentioned that there is a fundamental difference between the policy of the Orbán government and the central bank. Otherwise, someone would be here and say that György Matolcsy is wrong, or that we see it differently or something like that, but there is not even an opportunity to argue about it. There were very, very important sentences, but let me begin by saying here how well the government handled the Covid crisis, for example. Where there are 50,000 dead, I simply don't know what we're talking about, that we've handled a crisis well; the 45,000 griefs, the many tens of thousands of Hungarian families and all their relatives, have caused immense pain. And now we're gonna settle this with a shrug that we've handled the crisis well. No, the Orbán government mistreated the Covid crisis. (The President's seat is Dóra Dúró, Vice-President of the Parliament.) In György Matolcsy's report, the opinion was that in 2008-09 a crisis was mistreated, while from 2010 things were moving forward. I would like to point out that in the summer of 2008, before the crisis, Hungarian economic growth was 4 percent, the budget deficit was already around 4 percent, and the HUF exchange rate was about 100 HUF stronger than at present. So in this case, I think the Orbán government has few arguments that the Gyurcsány and the Bajnai governments could face. [[11.00]] By the way, Viktor Orbán thanked the crisis management government in 2010 here in Parliament. So it should be decided by now, 13 years after what happened, whether or not we managed the crisis well on Fidesz's terms. We believe that we have handled the crisis well. This is what the President of the Central Bank has said about the 100-day programme in 2002. He said it was a mistake. Then I do not understand why the Orbán government, Fidesz and KDNP are often told here in Parliament that they have given back the 13th month's pension, and they are very proud of it. Well, one of the key elements of the 100-day program was the introduction of the 13th month's pension. We have now also come to a communication and political debate that, according to György Matolcsy, the government was wrong to give the 13th month pension until the crisis, and the Orbán government was right to refuse to return the 13th month pension for more than ten years from 2010 and return it for the last one or two years. Then it should be decided whether this is the right decision or not. I also think it is very, very important that, when György Matolcsy talks about the return of the 1970s, it is one of the most serious statements of the central bank president, since the political and economic literature generally describes it as a period of depression in Brezhnyev. So if we return to the 1970s, it means that the Hungarian economy is looking at a crisis for about a decade, as György Matolcsy indicated. This is a very harsh statement from the President of the Central Bank, but I think he obviously sees the numbers and figures on which he bases it. When the President of the Central Bank said that Hungary is trapped, trapped in a financial trap, is in crisis and stagflation, he is here expressing a very, very hard, hard criticism of the Orbán government. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that György Matolcsy attacked Prime Minister Viktor Orbán for the first time. He did not usually just talk about the fact that the government and the central bank have a different assessment of certain major strategic issues, but this does not fundamentally affect harmonious cooperation. No, the Prime Minister was a stone-cold critic here, for example, about the fact that he gave the Prime Minister a document aimed at improving energy efficiency, which the Prime Minister specifically wiped out, and said that the Prime Minister had also caused damage to the country. It has been a very big mistake in recent years and since 2010 that the Orbán government has practically rejected the possibility of introducing the euro. Unfortunately, the central bank did not have a strong enough position on this matter to stand up for the exchange of the Hungarian currency, the currency with its current rather uncertain status and stability, into the euro. When György Matolcsy just said in his report that I quoted him literally, if I remember correctly, he was referring, among other things, to the strong stabilisation of the Croatian financial system with the introduction of the euro, and, obviously, their economic relations and wages there will be settled and stabilized accordingly. True, in order for the euro to replace the forint, a fundamental view should also have been changed, for example, in the summer of 2010 Lajos Kósa and others should not have been alarmed with a state tube to make the forint fall in immediately. Now I'm also living with the suspicion lawsuit, with a little caution, but perhaps with greater courage than caution, that an announcement like this has also given people who had this information or what to say. In Hungary's financial situation, which has now emerged, the inflation rate of Europe-recorder in Hungary is very serious. Today's recent inflation figures also indicate that inflation is indeed stuck, not going to fall very much. I think, based on this number, that if the war continues and the EU money does not arrive, it will remain at least two figures by the end of the year. And we have no doubt that if inflation decreases, it does not mean that the price of the present 1000 HUF bread will go back to 900, 800 HUF, or I don't know how many forints, but the price will rise at the same rate as it did to 1000 HUF. But the growth will be unchanged. It is very, very important to know, and I would also like to ask Mr Vice-President with respect what the central bank's plan is, how it tries to reduce inflation. After all, the reduction of inflation and I must now say that the reduction of inflation worthy of the Rákosi era is such a strategic issue that it is also necessary to take very, very important economic policy decisions in this regard, although it is not primarily for you, but for the government, but I believe that dialogue still exists between the two institutions. What are we talking about here? I'm just asking questions. I'm not asking questions. For example, will wages decrease? Will such a payout cease? Or will there be no increase in the rate of inflation? Will there be a reduction in demand, deliberately so that inflation can be reduced? These are very, very important questions, and I think that all Hungarian people will be very, very curious about these questions, or at least the answers. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that György Matolcsy was talking about malpractice. This means that the Orbán government has made mistakes that would have been known in advance that if they had not taken those steps, inflation could have decreased and the Hungarian economy could have remained on a stable growth path. Let me also make a parentheses comment here: it is very strange to compare the financial and economic situation between 2002 and 2010 with the slowly one-and-a-half decade after 2010, because Hungary joined the European Union on 1 May 2004. Around 2005-06-07-08, where was the EU's money that has since flowed into this country? By the time the Orbán government arrived in 2010, in an already economic economy, the money started to pour into the Hungarian economy. This has been given to post-2004 governments, but especially to post-2002 governments, either not at all or only minimally. With all this money, the Orbán government was misbehaved. That's pretty much correct. I know many people will say that the elections and voters have confirmed this, but I can say that these elections are either considered democratic or not, and then I am talking about media relations, justice relations or the reform of the electoral system, and that, among other things, EU funds are not coming because Hungary is not considered a rule of law. I would also like to ask Mr Vice-President of the Central Bank how they are trying to encourage the Government of Orbán to take the steps of the rule of law to bring in EU funds. The Hungarian economy needs these resources to arrive, but the Orbán government seems to be doing nothing to ensure that these blocked amounts arrive in Hungary. There has been a speech from pro-government representatives, and this would be addressed quickly by energy prices, the economy, inflation and sanctions. Then I'll tell you eight times that all the sanctions were voted by one Hungarian, and he is called Viktor Orbán. So if he says the sanctions are wrong and wrong, then he can only blame himself. The inflation and the increase in energy prices started long before the war, that's the truth. Besides, we are the most expensive of Russian gas, which, with the other interest rates on the Hungarian economy, is a brutal burden on the Hungarian budget. That should be changed, too. [[11.10]] Overall, the Orbán government has led Hungary on a blind track, and we are going into a crisis, which has now been strongly explained by the President of the Central Bank. Undoubtedly, there were no self-critical elements in this speech, although there was plenty of reason to do so; he was also responsible for this situation. I understand that the President of the Central Bank's mandate will expire at a reasonable distance, and therefore, in order to avoid professional loss, he will finally speak frankly about what he thinks about the Orbán government, but that does not mean that the Hungarians will sleep better. The crisis is here with us, and it's the Orbán government's fault. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2023-03-08-22	Welcome, fellow Members. We have reached the end of the speakers announced in writing. We will now continue the debate with the speeches of the Members who have asked for the normal word. In this context, Daniel Z. Carpathian, the representative of Jobbik, will be the first to follow. Here you go.
u2023-03-08-23	Madam President, Dear House, I will reassure my fellow Members that I will not discuss the 15-minute timeframe again, but in return let me ask the Vice-President for specific answers at the end. Because both in the Matolcsy Expo and in the report we have discussed the issue of housing, and, indeed, President Matolcsy has been very positive about the housing programme for the previous period, we can also point out that the effects of this in 2021 and its effects in general are being examined. I would like to bring real people's real problems here on the front of the housing, because the statistics are great and very nice things come out of it, just in the period concerned, only last year, let's say, the average rental fee in Budapest increased from 150,000 to 200,000 forints, and this covered tens of thousands of HUF in the period of 21 as well. A young Hungarian in an average living situation, or starting his life, they are the most important target group in our home country, and it will be impossible for him to finance housing expenses alone or, say, as a member of a couple starting his life. And the fact is that here we can praise the new home creation benefits; the last major polarity may have developed around the attic construction support, where, in fact, the sum of 3 million forints could have been used, but by the time living people received these funds, they may have reached only one and a half million or one-and-a-half million neighborhoods, because both the cost of raw materials and the cost of professionals created an unmanageable situation. And, well, in the context of the solar panels competitions, it was not only about trying to freeze it, making it impossible for the government, but also about the fact that in many cases the investor or the contractor decided after a while that his costs had increased so much that it should now be imposed on the single Hungarian citizen. Therefore, these benefits can be praised here, but if no one deals with their wide-ranging effects, that is to say, the fact that there has been a crisis in this market, by the fact that there are huge problems on the front of housing, we are not getting any further. Here, one of the statistics shows that the number of new apartments transferred is just what it is. I would like to make a point here, too. There are now about 4.5 million homes in Hungary, and if the number of new properties transferred each year remains about 20-25 thousand, it means that the real estate stock will be replaced every 200 years. Annex III is amended in accordance with Annex III to this Regulation. in the district, in our area, say, in the case of a panel house in Fékásmegyer, I would very much like to see what remains there after 200 years, so I am sure that this program is unsustainable in the long term. There was a fidesz year when there were 7 or 8,000 real estate transfers, which would have replaced the real estate stock every 450 years. So there's nothing to be proud of. And we see that there are very few apartments that can be rented in addition to these, and if either the central bank or the government praises home creation programs, it would be very nice to have a word about what the idea is for a typical young Hungarian youth or even in the rental market. Because when the Airbnb came in and, by the way, caused a lot of damage to the rents, what did the government do? At first the big nothing, but otherwise this was also true of all the other organisations involved, then after a few years he cowardly shifted the responsibility of Airbnb's regulation to the municipalities. However, with the community economy, the sharing economy, there are two things that must not be done: one is to release it completely, because then comes the lack of public cargo, essentially tax evasion; the other, which is not worth trying to do, is to ban it with a full-scale political club, because, right, we all have a smartphone in our hands, so we can, let's say, favor the taxi drivers until the end of time, but still people use it and solve it differently. Here, fair regulation can be the only way to follow, so it is not prohibited, but to regulate and obtain taxes and public burdens. What we see is that when it comes to the housing market, neither the government, the central bank, nor the various supervisors, no one is at the top of the situation, no one talks about the fact that the Hungarian citizen, the Hungarian young or middle-aged or even older who wants to thrive in his homeland, is in an impossible situation when they have to pay rent. Therefore, we clearly see the solution only in a public-based housing programme, where the management of real estate will obviously be carried out by the best local authorities, but the market price should be up to half of the current rental market charges, and we will look at how to contribute to keeping workers in the national strategy sectors by means of a home-building, housing or even a service-accommodation programme. There is a very positive historical experience of this in the whole European space. We are ignorant of the fact that we are being praised here for the benefits and programs of home creation, but we are allowed to migrate abroad because of coercion, and many because of the expensiveness of housing costs, even though there would be an alternative: prosperity in the homeland under all circumstances. Thank you for your attention.
u2023-03-08-24	The next speaker is Mr István Apáti, from the Group of Mi Hazank, in a normal time frame. Here you go.
u2023-03-08-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, That's where I finished my speech as the lead speaker, that food processing industry is a matter of versus battery factories. At such a depth, the President of the Central Bank did not agree to discuss this subject, perhaps by the end of 2023 he will hold this ammunition in his accounts for the year 2022, and he did not want to push the knife deeper into this deep contrast between him and Viktor Orbán, but it is a strategic, key issue, which will determine the future of Hungary for many decades. The Communists wanted to turn this country into a country of iron and steel, and you seem to want to turn us into a country of battery companies. There are about 23 battery factories, the state support of which is hundreds, or perhaps, by the time we get there, thousands of billion HUF items, which, let's say, should also concern the subject of the central bank report; not to mention the fact that many of our most valuable agricultural land is being trashed. I'd like to ask the Vice President that, in your view... They have examined this, they have expanded their attention to this because their powers, I suppose, yes, but they have extended, extended, allowed their attention to this, to say, to what extent, this hundreds of billions of forints of non-refundable state aid... Only in the case of the Debrecen battery plant can we talk about the size of 350 billion; it is said that 157 billion has been paid so far and will end somewhere around 350 billion; 23 factories are planned. In Debrecen, not only the country, but Europe's largest battery company, and I would not even talk about pollution, water, air and other problems, because it was possible in another debate, but also about the effects of this on the Hungarian economy, such economic impacts, and I would like to ask you about them. When the President of the Central Bank clearly states, not literally, but in substance, that instead of being a great power in the food industry, says the MiHazan Movement: instead of being a great power in the food processing industry, we force the latest madness that may be destroyed after ten years of a trend turn, the production of batteries. The relationship is extremely simple, I have said it several times, and I will say it: however you look at it, you can live without batteries, not without food; moreover, it does not matter whether there is, say, 43 percent inflation on food prices, or, say, an acceptable minimum price increase; and instead of providing 30 million people, Hungary would not be able to provide even 10 million. Instead of taking care of three times our current population, we're practically the second in the back, the second in the second in the row. And, honourable members of the government, there is little shame in talking about Romania's slowly overtaking us, unfortunately it has already preceded us in several segments, on several issues; for example, there is 9 percent VAT on food in Romania and 27 percent VAT on food in the vast majority of cases in our country, but this is just one example taken out of many. But according to the President of the Central Bank, we're almost head-on with the Romanians in economic indicators, and by the way, if we keep going, then... Now's the time to say it's not like that. [[11.20]] My self-esteem is extremely insulted that we have fallen to this point, with about 80 or 90 percent of the last 13 years being governed by you by two thirds. What can the central bank do at least at the level of proposing to reduce food inflation, beyond, say, perhaps, the building of battery factories could be removed from the agenda at the last minute? Do you not see the level of grants as a high-risk financial risk, on the one hand, and on the other, that we are too committed to China? The fact that, in principle, the national Christian-Conservative Government is seeking the favor of the Chinese Communist Party is particularly prickly. This does not lead to a smile on one's face and does not make us too happy, but now that we will be a German-Chinese joint colony next to the German colony, it is the deepest violation not only of national self-esteem, but also of the fullest national interest. Whether it's German or Chinese, it's multi, it's simple, ladies and gentlemen. If any multi-company comes from any country, finds better conditions, especially cheaper labour, more servile government, and other more favourable conditions, you will pick up your tent and go to the next country. The Hungarian entrepreneur, the Hungarian peasant farmer, the Hungarian farmer and the Hungarian young people want to survive here, he wants to stay here in his homeland if they would let them. Nothing more would young people, farmers, landowners, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, just let them work. I want you to get support, less official coverage, less tax control, at least as fair an attitude as the multinationals here. Multis leave us, pick up their tent trees, and unfortunately, young people are taking them, and more and more of the entrepreneurs are taking them, because they cannot make a living, because they cannot succeed and can not make a living with the exception of some of the stately, politically distinguished beneficiary entrepreneurs. Not to mention what has been withheld here, and no reply has been received, so I am now forced to ask the question, and it is also a matter of great concern to that financial report. They say there was a $4 billion American loan from China at the end of last year. There was at least $8 billion of U.S. loans in progress back then, but who knows, it could be a lot more. Is there a causal link between the construction of Chinese battery factories and borrowing? Did it make a pact that we would get credit from China, especially if EU funds and EU funds didn't arrive, would it be a survival loan if the country contributed, or the country's leadership, to build battery factories? These battery companies may not work in ten years, but all their negative consequences, not just the building, the waste, the pollutants, will stay here. So perhaps it would be worthwhile for the central bank to examine this issue more deeply; as well as the question of building energy. It is very important that I said just now that most Hungarian households, Hungarian families, are unfortunately unable to modernize their properties, except for their own fault. A building energy programme can slightly improve this, but even then millions of households will be left without any modernisation. The sentence is also true that an average Hungarian youth, unless he has a stormy backwind, especially through parents or other favorable circumstances or relatives, will remain an unattainable fantasy for most Hungarian youths in addition to current construction material prices and labour fees to build a house or renovate a house or even start a major renovation. I am very much afraid that the road to hell will be paved with good intentions again, because if we think about this amazing construction inflation... because this is the other, we talked less about this, that not only food prices have flown, but the construction materials have increased to an extreme degree, and labour fees have also increased in the construction industry, which is partly heated by the amazing greed of traders. If we criticized the government, then we also criticize in some cases those who are partly independent of the government, because we see that when the euro was HUF 410 plus HUF 420, the effect of it immediately spilled into material prices, and when it is now in a band of 370-380, it does not have any effect, either in building engineering or in much simpler material prices. That there is something that can be done about this, which actually brings about an improvement and price reduction, is, of course, a difficult question, we are fully aware of that, or at least we should try. If we throw a multi-hundreds or even thousands of billion-dollar building energy programme into this situation, which would be a very important, useful and meaningful goal, and again in the long term, but this time in the right direction, would the Hungarian people's lives and financial budgetary opportunities not be further unleashed by the whole range of materials prices affected by energy renovations? After all, if they feel the possibility, they will find it very difficult to control prices in the spirit of unbridled greed, and in fact we can achieve what we often see in the case of CSOK subsidies, which do not doubt their good intentions, and of course we agree that there are such subsidies, but often the feeling of man talking to injured builders that almost all of them have become an indirect support system for construction, because construction materials and labour costs have increased at least to the same or much greater extent than the amount of support that has become available for new constructions or renovations. In particular, I would like to get answers to questions about people's everyday lives as to what kind of central bank tools could be available to reduce food inflation, what the central bank's proposal and idea is to ensure that Hungary's food self-sufficiency is contained in the proposals of the Hungarian Movement, its independence, freedom and security can be significantly increased in the foreseeable future and what they can do to keep gas and electricity prices at an affordable or affordable level. What do you think can be expected for the year 2023 in terms of electricity and gas prices? Finally, what are the opportunities for extreme price increases in construction materials and construction construction costs, which make it virtually impossible and distressing for people's everyday lives? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-03-08-26	I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. As no one has applied for further speeches, the ensemble is general... [[For signal:]] I'm sorry. Congressman Tamás Herczeg of Fidesz asked for the floor in a normal time frame. I give the floor to the congressman. Here you go.
u2023-03-08-27	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, A lot has been said here in the debate, and, in fact, a number of additions can be made to the arguments and data raised in the case of the pro and versus case. There have also been criticisms of the volume of real estate. If you look at the data, you can see that 2020 was the year that has resulted in the most housing construction in the last 13 or a few years: 25 thousand apartments were built that year, and between 2.1 and 2.2. So this is a reduction of a kind that can be said by professionals to say that there is no shortage of housing in the country. The other is that it is indeed justified and necessary to renovate the housing stock. I've been looking for data, I can't find it yet, right, it's still going on, this 3+3 million HUF opportunity has not been completed, that the state will give us 3 million HUF in order to restore our home, but quite amazing numbers have appeared in the past period, six months ago, a year ago, a few months ago, about what kind of use it has made. We also know that there are places where entrepreneurs can't be found for months, because small entrepreneurs, masons, painters, covers, electricians have so much work. So perhaps the claim that this work cannot be done does not cover reality. There are also many criticisms of the government about inflation. However, we can only agree that, let us say, the European figures are that the opening up to Covid in itself has had an inflation effect, so inflation was around 7-8 percent after the war in Ukraine, after the Russian aggression, and the growth that my pro-government colleagues rightly say is the result of the war and the sanctions policy. [[11.30]] What we can see is that when the crisis caused by Covid, the disruptions of international supply chains, the spill-over turbulence caused by the Russian-Ukrainian war, despite rising prices of raw materials and energy, the Hungarian economy restarted, we saw a very unique growth rate. It was the highest or one of the highest in Europe and by the second quarter of 2021 the economy had already reached the level before the Covid crisis. So, if we look at the pace of development of European countries or European Union countries, some kind of contraction between GDP production in EU countries and Hungarian GDP production has nevertheless been observed. Therefore, we can say that in 2020-21, in the years of crisis management, the country was able to achieve success, and most of all because of the previous decade, we can say that we have won it. In 2021, an annual economic growth rate of 7.1 percent was achieved, so we were able to produce Europe's fastest recovery indicator. The Hungarian National Bank, in cooperation with the government, made 11 000 billion HUF available to the Hungarian economy in 2020-21, an unprecedented amount from the Hungarian economic history side. Only the European Central Bank, which is much richer and larger than we, and which has an impact on the euro area as a whole, has implemented greater economic recovery or economic protection throughout the European Union. That is what I wanted to add to what I said earlier. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-08-28	István Apáti, Member Mi Hazank, applied for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2023-03-08-29	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would also like to respond partly to Congressman Herczeg, because I would not like to make a mistake here, or I would not wish to express it in the sudden impulse. Obviously, the outbreak of war has increased inflation, so this sentence is true, but the onset, rise, and rise of inflation have already begun long before the war, which was very significantly affected by the outbreak of war. There is no doubt that this requires neither a lawyer nor an economist nor a Member of Parliament. But the reference, to put it mildly, is also a misleading and slippery reference to itself because it often comes out of government communication of war and war sanctions that would have triggered inflation. [[Tamás Herczeg: This is absolutely true.]] This plays out that many of the pro-government representatives may think that people are unable to recall the early autumn or late autumn processes at the end of the summer 2021 when certain price-stops were already in place. So the sentence, in this form, is complete, and so true; I believe that even you cannot deny it. I was just trying to draw attention here to the fact that we try to look at the vast majority of Hungarian people as adults or as adults, and to assume that a significant part or a vast majority of them can remember events over three months or more. And by the way, it is very irritating that only the government is responsible for the successes, and they cannot see their responsibilities, their mistakes, you are victims of the circumstances; really, as bad football players. If the football player doesn't play, everyone is responsible for everything, the atmosphere of the stadium, the angle of the bleachers, everything but him. So it's not that he can't play football or play lowball, he's a victim of outside circumstances. If you proclaim the little success you have shown in the past 13 years, take the blame and take responsibility for the failures and high inflation! Thank you. [[István Szabadi applauds.]]
u2023-03-08-30	I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the report how he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Vice President Barnabas Virág indicates that he will respond. I would like to inform the Vice-President that he has a 30-minute timeframe for this. I give you the floor.
u2023-03-08-31	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam President, Dear House, First of all, I would like to start by saying hello to the ladies in this House, to all the mothers, wives, girls, grandmothers. God bless them for women's day. And then let's move on to the professional parts. I will try to respond as widely as possible to the questions that have been raised and, as appropriate, to what I know. I know that the powers of central banks have gone through a serious growth and expansion all over the world over the past decade, so there are a lot of things, more and more things that central banks have started to pay attention to, but there are areas that are not properly addressed or dealt with yet. So let's say what judicial reforms are taking place, and how they stand, or what decisions have been made in relation to legislation affecting different land affairs, so that the central banks will not be able to judge this at all, so neither will the Hungarian National Bank. Allow me to begin with a general thought. Several sports comparisons were made here during the speeches. I can say for myself that I may have spent most of my time on the sports fields in addition to the central bank. I spent 20 years of my life in the central bank, and now for over 30 years, I've been racing around basketball courts. There was a basic rule, which I think is usually true of all sports, what distinguishes a good athlete, a good competitor from a successful competitor. The answer to this is usually that a good athlete is satisfied with even small victories, the point is to have two points in a bag. The successful contestant and the one who ends up becoming a champion is typical of never seeing the two points in a bag, but always referring to what he is capable of, what he can achieve, and trying to maximize. So, what I see is that in this situation we in the Hungarian National Bank, as we think every time in the last few years, this time again, we look at what we, as Hungary, as a Hungarian national economy, are able to achieve, what we want to achieve, and what kind of operation we have to perform. So in this area we would like to see a successful country, a successful national economy and a constantly catching up, rising Hungary. I think that, perhaps, Congressman Ferenc David asked at the end of his speech whether there was a way out. In this regard, I would like to say that there is always a way out. So there is always a way out, there is a way out now, and what the central bank can give in this area, and what the central bank has done in recent years, even in 2021, I think we can describe it with three words: stability, security and chance. A chance to create a reform environment that will enable the Hungarian economy to continue to catch up in a truly difficult course in the decade of 2020 after the 2010 decade. The importance of self-criticism has been mentioned several times in the speeches. I think this is another area we can only agree on. However, here I would like to draw attention to this; I know that history is a special genre, where past processes are seen from a slightly different perspective. Economic history, on the other hand, is an exceptional area in which there are also numbers that help clarity and help us to correctly judge past processes. And what certainly doesn't bring us closer to the solution is that if we try to make clear negative trends in a different colour, we try to frame them positively. So, I think that there is a consensus between practically all economic professionals in Hungary that what happened after 2002 and 2010 cannot be framed as a success, no matter how much we try to find data for this. [[11.40]] So it was a period at the end of which we ended up in a serious financial crisis; at the end of which the Hungarian economy stopped catching up, and we were on a path of collapse. So what I would like to ask you to do in any debate is to avoid these types of reframes once again, by accepting the call for self-criticism. And then allow me to take a general approach to the questions that honourable Members have asked. Inflation. Again, I would just like to state the facts, avoiding trying to indicate processes in a positive or negative range without any fact. When did inflation start in Hungary? There have been several such claims that this is not a product of 2020-21, but a product of a much earlier process. I'm giving you stats. So between 2017 and 21 it was four years, 48 months, during this period average inflation in Hungary was 3 percent. In Hungary, price stability, i.e. the central bank's inflation target, is 3 percent. So this means that Hungary has been able to achieve the 3% inflation target in these four years, i.e. between 2017 and 2020. It is therefore not true that inflation has already started to rise at a very rapid rate, and this process is becoming uncontrollable. I mentioned 48 months, so four years. 44 out of 48 months is a relatively high rate when inflation is in the 2-4% range during this period. So the 3-percent band is defined as an extra-minus 1 per cent, so accordingly I think that we introduced the inflation target monitoring system once again in Hungary in 2001, so for the first time between 2017 and 2020, the Hungarian National Bank has successfully achieved the price stability first in its mandate, i.e. between 2017 and 2020. So I think that the interpretation that this process has already started is wrong. I think it is indeed a very complex process, which marked the decade of 2020, so that in practically three years the world was faced, Europe was faced and Hungary was faced with two crises, i.e. the corona virus epidemic and the Russian-Ukrainian war, with which we can safely say that it is good once every 100 years. So once again, in three years, the world has experienced two such crises, Europe has lived and Hungary has lived through them. Once again, it is a matter of fact that these effects have had serious consequences for global inflation processes, and then I will come closer to domestic processes, so it is no coincidence that the world has experienced an unprecedented wave of inflation since the 1970s. In more than 50 countries there is currently double-digit inflation in the world, so everyone is struggling with high inflation. Indeed, there are differences between those who are struggling with high inflation. The main components of this initially were clearly linked to the raw material markets in the period 2021. If you look at it, it was roughly the year 2021 when the price of natural gas, the price of oil, went through a very fast price increase, and practically the price of a lot of products from steel products to timber products. I do not want to go into what causes are behind this, it is a complex process again, but if, let us say, we look at the fact that in the energy market, i.e. in the oil and gas markets, many analyses show that this process was partly related to the war, the supply of gas on the European market began to shrink well before February 2022. Thus, for 2021, inflation rates have increased in all countries in the region, and unfortunately, growth in the Eastern European region has been much faster. This continued with the war in 22nd. The average inflation rate was 14.5 percent. This is virtually similar to what can be observed at the level of the region, adding that from the middle of the year, however, we see that the Hungarian inflation rate has reached a higher level by faster growth than the average in the region by the end of 22nd. And that's where the domestic peculiarities come in. I think that the typical situation of the food industry and the food market is a factor that has increased Hungarian inflation in addition during this period. What can be done and what is the cost of breaking this inflation? I know that in recent years, too, there has been a serious debate about the fact that in such a medium, when inflation appears at the same time and there is an economic slowdown, what we should focus on, what is worth focusing on. And then the dilemma began that it was really growth or inflation that had to be dealt with first. We in the central bank have already thought that we believe that inflation is the primary enemy or the most important enemy, so all elements of economic policy must be subject to its destruction. If inflation is high, it reduces the chances of all growth and economic convergence; that it squashes it, I think, that is what we see from the last quarter's GDP data. It seems that if inflation is high, there is no chance of growth, so there is a decrease in domestic demand, investment is reduced, the economic environment in general is difficult to plan in a two-digit inflation medium. Accordingly, the aim is to limit this two-digit inflation rate of over 20 per cent as quickly as possible to a low range close to the central bank's targets. I think that's what needs to be subject to everything. That's what the central bank is doing, and I can safely say that the central bank will continue to do so in the next period, so I think we can't allow it here from 21. With a very disciplined and rigorous monetary policy, it is necessary to reduce inflation and maintain financial stability. There is another area that has been addressed by a number of representative questions, this is consumer pricing above so-called producer costs, let us say, so that practically an extra profit has been created in several sectors in 2022. In this regard, I would like to draw attention to the fact that for the first time in Hungary, the National Bank drew attention to this, so we introduced this concept at the end of last year that it was profitable inflation, so we see that a very significant part of the rise in inflation in the second half of last year, i.e. in the second half of 2022, is due to this profit-driven inflation. According to our calculations, this could have reached up to 3 percentage points by the end of the year. So I think we need to take action against this. How can you take action against profit-driven inflation? Surely, by strengthening competition, the steps taken by the Hungarian Competition Authority over the past period are certainly in this direction, and they will soon be able to deliver the results. Therefore, in the market where there is no competition, competition must be generated, either according to the fact that the competition authority constantly encourages the players in the market to compete more effectively, or, as appropriate, with the possibility of new players appearing on the markets and trying to catalyse competition. I think that both should be used, so we need to break down this profit-drawn inflation, and, yes, we need to make sure that the pricing surpluses that are involved in consumer prices at the moment start to shrink over the next period, and that, indeed, the reduction in costs that has started in the world will be increasingly passed on to consumers by producers. So, globally, we see that energy prices, food prices, have decreased substantially in recent months, in the last quarter. I think that, in the next period, it is important to strengthen competition, to reduce competition investigations and thus profit-driven inflation in order to be able to reduce inflation in the next period. Once again, what we are doing from the central bank side for this process is to keep financial stability solid, so financial market stability is also the most important pillar of the downward trend in inflation in this period. Several questions and comments were raised in the context of crisis management. What does crisis management in Hungary look like in an economic sense? I would essentially like to address the economic context. [[11.50]] 2020-2021. We can see that if we look at GDP data on our own, a truly rapid economic recovery occurred in 2021. I think we should not go into a debate again to try to reframe statistical data. So in a year and a half, we managed to reach the GDP level where the Hungarian economy was in 2019. We can say that there has been a rapid recovery from the corona virus epidemic, a rapid economic growth, let's say, while this took 6.5 years after 2009, I now think in six quarters that this is something that should not be taken away in such a way that the level of employment is also a temporary reduction in unemployment. [[Sic!]] After that, it was able to bring it back to full employment very quickly. What did the central bank do during this period? It has been said several times that the central bank has provided HUF 11,000 billion for crisis management. This HUF 11 000 billion has reached virtually a wide range of actors in the domestic economy. It has been said several times, and I can only agree that the backbone of the Hungarian economy is the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprise sector. Since 2013, Magyar Nemzeti Bank has been representing the basic position that the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprise sector should have the most favourable financing environment. In 2013, our growth credit programme was launched to enable them to make improvements and investments that will be able to boost growth in the long term. But in the same way, the funding of the budget was stabilised by the central bank, the corporate funding was strengthened and the dividend of HUF 600 billion was paid in the meantime. I think that if the question of where the outcome of the exchange rate is, which occurred during this period, we can say that a significant or decisive part of this has been paid into the budget each time by the central bank in the form of dividends. Overall, I think that crisis management on the real economy side has taken place quickly after the coronal virus epidemic, and I think that this will also provide a significant reserve for the future. So once again, we are discussing the course of 2023, and I know that there is a difference, even in my case, compared to what we see in analysts, that pretty much everyone is saying that this year's growth is zero, 0.5, 1.1.5 percent, and comments are now happening in this range. So we can start off on a path for this reform change that is at stake to maintain our catch-up path in the 2020 decade, which, in any case, takes place along a nearly full employment path and at least a not roughly declining GDP path. On the housing and housing market, there was a specific question. I would like to mention two things. On the one hand, I think that the monetary policy in itself that the Hungarian National Bank is pursuing at the moment in order to break inflation will have similar effects on housing market prices. I am sure that the very fast increase in housing prices, which has characterised Hungary in the past 4-5-6 years and thus reduced the availability of the housing market, will stop over the next period, through this, I think that the rate of growth of rents will also be significantly lower. In this way, the result of monetary policy alone will be that the very brutal price increase in the housing market that has been in the past will significantly slow down. Moreover, I think that a general lesson is not only at the level of the housing market, but generally at the level of the entire economy, that when we touch a market, it is not enough to think about demand in itself. I think that we need to take reforms, steps where demand and supply can move hand in hand, so that we can avoid such excessive price increases as we have seen in the housing market. So here is our solution again at this moment, I think I am not going to say anything new, because in recent years we have been constantly making proposals for competitiveness, which is exactly what we have been aiming for in the housing market, that this rate of renewal, which the Member has also mentioned, should clearly be doubled at least. If I look at regional experience, it is necessary to achieve about 1 percent for the renewal rate, which will certainly require supply housing policy, and also to improve the productivity of the construction sector, which has already been mentioned a lot, with new technologies in the near future. There are also many questions about the future of the food industry. Here again, the central bank analysis presented the challenges and the basic situation in which the Hungarian food industry is at the moment, and the consequences for inflation. Here, too, I think I am not going to say anything new, all of which are claims that have been made by the central bank in recent years. I think there was also a question of representatives on this, about what is going on with competitiveness, and that we may be talking less about it today, and that we are less concerned with these processes. What I can say is that we talk about the issue of competitiveness in the same tone every year. In 2016, we published a study book entitled Competitiveness and Growth, thanks to the Central Bank Analysis Team. Since then, we have started each year with 50 points, then there have been 144 points, 330 points of competitiveness proposals. I think the key in this area is measurement, so we need to keep measuring what we have been or are able to move in one area in a positive or negative direction. Returning to the food industry, I think that this is an area in which we certainly need a complex, comprehensive solution. We certainly need a completely new irrigation structure, and I think we need to fundamentally renew irrigation systems, and we also need to start moving towards a deeper, much stronger vertical integration within the food industry, where we can basically build strong food industry players in domestic hands from the producer through logistics until the process of branding is closed. In this I see the future in which we will be able to deal with this situation, a strong agricultural country facing the highest food inflation. On several occasions, the question of inflation was that single-digit inflation was possible by the end of the year. [[Dr. István Apáti: By the end of one year!]] Again, I can only use economic history in this regard. Economic history shows that when inflation rises above 20 percent, it is a hard job to reduce it back into a single-digit range, but there are examples. I think that this means for Hungarian economic policy that single-digit inflation can be achieved by the end of the year, but this will require the contribution of all sectors of economic policy and, once again, profit-driven inflation to the domestic business sector in the next period. Once again, economic history has shown that inflation above 20 percent is very hard work to put in a one-digit range within a year. We still have to make very serious efforts to do this. I trust that we have the strength to do this and that we can make these efforts. What is the cost of breaking inflation? Is there a price for this monetary policy that we have been pursuing recently? I think every policy has a price. Obviously, when an economy is operating in such a crisis medium, when an economy is facing such high inflation, I say that there are painful and even more painful steps. [[12.00]] I say that it is better to take these steps as soon as possible and to prevent problems and to deal with them as quickly as possible. In the case of the central bank, the development of a higher interest rate environment will, as appropriate, have an impact on the balance sheet of the central bank and is already having an impact. What we need to emphasise here is that the benefits of action will, on the other hand, be realised at macroeconomic level and have already been realised. What is it that we can see behind this? On the one hand, there is the HUF 11,000 billion that is still virtually in the financial system. So when we talk about the fact that there is liquidity of HUF 11 000 to HUF 12 000 billion today, at the moment in the financial system, the vast part of it came in under these central bank programmes in 2020-2021. I think that these sources, this liquidity, are still with the actors of the Hungarian economy. Perhaps just one example: the liquid assets of Hungarian businesses were able to undergo very serious growth during this period, so they rose from around 20 percent to over 30 percent. It also shows that businesses have been able to build buffers that they will be able to manage during the crisis. So once again, this money is in the economy. The other positive is, in itself, the suppression of inflation. I think that breaking down inflation is a national interest. Once again, high inflation cannot increase, high inflation cannot catch up. The faster we are able to reduce inflation, the faster the Hungarian economy will be able to return to the growth path, a career in which we have sufficient internal investment and real wages again on the growth path. So I think this is what we need to see: there are costs, there will be costs to this monetary policy, but the benefits are at the level of the whole macro-economic economy. Finally, only here with regard to the exchange rate, I think there have been some statements and wording that we should be able to see accurately. The fact that we need financial market stability is exactly the same as what the Hungarian National Bank sees, which is why it has taken the steps that we have seen in recent months; once again: because we are fighting an extremely high inflation. It is important to clarify that there is no passage in the law that the purpose of the central bank, let us say, is to shape any specific level of the exchange rate. In this respect, the central bank law makes it clear that the aim is to achieve price stability again, this is the primary task and to ensure financial stability. So what I can say about exchange rate policy is that the central bank will pursue a policy that will enable us to ensure price stability once again for the Hungarian economy as quickly as possible and achieve our objectives of price stability. I think I may have touched on the most important issues in this area, so I would like to thank all the speakers for their statements in the debate. Once again, I think that we are at a time when our decisions now can not only determine the next quarter, not just the next year, but the next decade. We in the central bank believe that the Hungarian economy can not only be a good athlete, but also be a successful athlete, which is why we will also work in the next period, and that is why we will do everything in the next period. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-08-32	I am now asking the rapporteur for the decision, Mr Bánki Erik, if you would like to reply. [[On the sign of Erik Bánki:]] He says he doesn't want to answer. In this case, I would like to inform my fellow Members that it is possible to submit amendments by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the meeting of our agendas. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. In this context, I will address Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, for the first time in a five-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2023-03-08-33	Madam President, Dear House, It is perhaps not entirely unnecessary to talk about the VAT content of the costs of raising children and of articles raising children that impose a heavy burden on all Hungarian children. We see that the government would have had plenty of room to intervene in this area, but for some reason it did not do so. We also see that, from one year to another, the government expects about a thousand billion more VAT revenues, and if only one, one fifth, and one sixth of this plus were to be used for this purpose, it would be immediately possible to reduce the burden on families. In recent days, I have analyzed the fact that if this VAT amount, typically 27 per cent of the EU record VAT, was left with the families concerned, what would be the amount of the discount of thousands or even tens of thousands of HUF. We talked less about the fact that this extra VAT revenue, which is added up by Hungarian families and Hungarian entrepreneurs, would be much easier to move than other lines of the budget. Here comes the reduction of VAT on basic foods, which has also been a mantra in the House for years, but it is also a huge overlap with child-rearing articles. We see that if someone is looking for a Hungarian-made baby food on the market, this is how I do it, say I am looking for a Kecskemét brand, it is very difficult to find one of these below 500 forints, but it costs more than 600 forints. It is also clear that the government is not only not open in this area, but it voted against the Hungarian families and the Hungarian families raising the child, which is something quite amazing. Many also forget that the majority of the families concerned have had to face a much higher cost of housing in recent years than they could have achieved a benefit, a family tax reduction, or any other family support, since they do not increase in inflation-related ways and housing costs have increased brutally. For example, a family in Budapest who lived in an apartment and raised children there had to expect an increase in rent of up to HUF 50 thousand per month over the last one year. Therefore, it is a very clear request to reduce the supply scarcity that exists in this market with a concept of housing with a public background, because it is also a market. For example, the untreated nature of Airbnb has removed a lot of real estate from this market, which is why, especially in downtown districts, the brutal increase in rent fees has become unstoppable. It was quite amazing that this had not reached the government's threshold of stimulus at all; and when, after several years of hesitation, it seemed to intervene, it was still the responsibility of the municipalities to put in place some sort of regulation in Airbnb for the municipalities working in an incredibly resource-deficient environment, and it was the government that abandoned some of their resources. In such a lack of resources, the municipality can obviously be more lenient than it should be. It is clear that Parliament would have a responsibility in this matter as well. We are confused as to why this responsibility cannot be faced by the government. Overall, therefore, if we look at the financial burden on children's children, these burdens have clearly increased in recent years, there is an even greater increase in the housing segment, whereas there was no measurable advantage. Therefore, we call on the government not to abandon some of these tax dollars, not in terms of the money already spent, but in terms of the expectation of additional VAT revenue, to leave them with the families, and with these three targeted programmes I have mentioned, it would be possible to bring about a meaningful relief in the lives of families raising children. However, in a crisis period and in the middle of a crisis period, we do not know that a more important achievement could not be achieved, because this supports the possibility of prosperity in the homeland. Thank you for your attention.
u2023-03-08-34	Congresswoman Bernadett Bakos, from the LMP faction, has also applied for a statement after the agenda. I give you the floor, please. [[12.10]]
u2023-03-08-35	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, For the third year, the Green Party of Hungary has been trying to help women whose problems are not solved by a flower or a box of chocolates. They are women who live in poor conditions, who have to consider buying basic hygiene products when buying, and if they can even pay for it, what should be put back on the shelves, such as vegetables or meat, if any. And they're the girls who miss school a few days a month because they can't solve those days, or they're sick of different home practices, which could cause them to suffer permanent health damage. Health deposit, cleaning deposit, tampons or shampoo and showers are not luxury products, yet it is estimated that about 20-30 percent of Hungarian women cannot afford them. This means that according to the most optimistic estimate, this problem can affect one million women in Hungary. Unfortunately, this issue is still being treated as taboo, which is why it is very difficult to accurately assess the number and range of stakeholders and directly help them. Meanwhile, in Hungary, the world's record 27 percent VAT applies to these products, and in recent years, the increase in all areas of life has also particularly affected general hygiene products. This would certainly help if we at least abolished the VAT on specifically menstrual products, but it would only make them cheaper, and it would not solve the whole problem yet, since there would still be people who could not afford it. Consider, for example, the fate of a small-income family, where, where appropriate, let's say, there are two girls, but there should be a minimum wage or a public wage of 10-20 thousand forints per month only for female hygiene products with other costs of living. And in 2023, at the point of civilization when we sent people into space decades ago, we can't say to one half of society that he should walk around wrapped in rags and tight feet if he doesn't have enough money. Therefore, in 2021, I initiated as a municipal representative in the X. district of Budapest, so that the municipality could provide assistance to women in need and provide these products to them in schools and social care. The programme has been implemented, and I would like to share some experience with you. With only two million forints of annual funding, 2455 packages of medical deposits and 115 packages of intimate wipes were allocated. Thus, these basic products were available at all primary and secondary schools in the district. The family and child welfare service provided these products during family visits and customer reception. The children's temporary home was provided with education for teenage girls. Both territorial and school protective women helped to distribute deposits and wipes. So, from this low budget, of only two million forints a year, this programme could serve as a model for women in need throughout the country, which would make this programme possible at a national level of approximately 250 million forints. For the third time this year, LMP's regional organisations have purchased and collected such essential products and have delivered them through civil and municipal organisations assisting those in need, where they are most needed. The feedback was positive in all cases, so this proves that they are indeed necessary, since all foundations and institutions have a list of general hygiene products and specifically menstrual products, so they need institutionalised insurance. International Women's Day is about more than flowering and bonbon, and it is about recognising women's public and political involvement, and on the one hand, recognising problems that specifically affect women and seeking solutions. That is why I have submitted a proposal to the Parliament which sets out the national introduction of the already well-functioning method in the Stone Mine, and I very much hope that all Members can support it. Thank you for your attention.
u2023-03-08-36	Dávid Dócs, from the group of Mi Hazánk, applied for a post-meeting speech. I give you the floor, please. [[Bernadett Bakos takes the notary seat.]]
u2023-03-08-37	Madam President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, First of all, let me wish the ladies in this room a happy women's day on International Women's Day, and then I would like to wish the same for all the ladies in the world. Today's topic is a little related to yesterday, because yesterday Parliament discussed the Russian-Ukrainian conflict and its effects on Hungary, and the commemoration of the one-year anniversary and the unconditional stand-up to peace. However, I would like to approach this from a little economic point of view, because we can see that it is not only because of war sanctions, but also because of the economic side, but also because of certain sectors, such as my own area of expertise, agriculture, that I would like to set an example. After all, since the war broke out last year, it is not enough that Hungary's agriculture has been hit by the drought of the century, and it is not enough that farmers have had to face the increase in input prices and have had to try to survive this year, because last year was a year in every respect and in every respect, a very trying year, and a very trying year, that is what the vast amount of Ukrainian grain that has flooded the European market, including their indirect western neighbours, us, Hungarians and Hungary, has discovered. Russia and Ukraine have been agreed with Turkish mediation to continue to deliver their huge grain production to Africa and the Middle East smoothly through an economic humanitarian corridor. However, for some reason, these shipments no longer reach the destination, they are stranded in Europe, practically destroying the potential of European farmers, because both their production areas and their technology are much more advanced. It can be mentioned here that if we have said that this is not the war between Ukraine and Russia, but also that America has something to do with it, then I must also mention that, of course, economic interests can be realised here. After all, America has made huge improvements in agriculture in Ukraine in recent years and decades. They work with incredibly advanced technology, they farm on thousands of hectares of state-of-the-art machinery parks, and while we are practically talking about water scarcity and drought in the Carpathian Basin, these huge signs are being watered almost without exception in Ukraine. For this reason, as 25 percent of the best soils in the world are in Ukraine, and on the soils of Chernozjom, averages of one and a half to two can be achieved compared to Europeans, this competition is very unbalanced. Of course, we do not support Ukraine's intention to join the European Union, not only because it still suppresses the rights of Hungarians in Transcarpathia in Ukraine and in Ukraine, but we do not support it because it would be an insurmountable consequence in agriculture if, after membership of the EU, they even received area payments for these huge land. Then, I think that farmers and farmers in the Central European region would ultimately be put at a disadvantage that could not be effectively undone, and that would ultimately destroy agriculture here in Central Europe and thus also in Hungary. We can see that this is why the government plans instead of revivaling and flowering the Hungarian agriculture and food industry, the processing industry, to make Hungary a big battery power. This is also very dual, because we do not really understand, the Hungarian Movement does not really understand, that as long as most of the food comes from China now, when they build 26-storey malachoteles in China, then practically a country with agricultural properties like Hungary will produce batteries thanks to Chinese capital and Chinese migrant workers. We think it would be better to keep Chinese capital and Chinese migrant workers in China, and we Hungarians are trying to deal with Hungarian agriculture and manufacturing. Therefore, our proposal to the government is to stop this deceitful economic policy, to stop its efforts to make it impossible for us to build an independent Hungarian national economy in the future. We believe that we must rely on the Hungarian land, the Hungarian agriculture and processing industry, and we would like to ask the government and call for further negotiations to be held with the European Commission in order to protect Hungarian farmers, so that Ukrainian grain is not concentrated in Hungary. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]] [[12.20]]
u2023-03-08-38	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next part-session of the Spring Parliament is expected to take place on 20 March 2023. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed.
