u2023-05-22-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 20th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear House, Again, I am fulfilling my sad duty to announce that two of our former fellow Members have passed away in the past. János Zatykó obtained his mandate in the 4th constituency of Komárom-Esztergom county as a candidate of the MSZP in the 1994 parliamentary elections, and until 2010, he was a member of the Parliament for four cycles. During his term of office, he supported the work of the Committee on Agriculture for 14 years. He was elected mayor of Komárom on three occasions. He retired from politics in 2010. He passed away 75 years of his life. Tamás Suchman, one of the founding members of the MSZP, obtained a mandate in the first free parliamentary elections after the change of regime from the party's national list, later from the 5th constituency of Somogy county as individual candidate and from the regional list of Somogy county. Until 2010, he was a member of the Parliament for five cycles. Under his mandate, he was a member of the Committee on Human Rights, Minority and Religion and Vice-President of the Committee on European Integration Affairs. From 1995 he was Minister of Industry, Trade and Tourism without a portfolio for privatisation by the Horn Government, and from 1996 he was Minister of Industry, Trade and Tourism. Between 2004 and 2006, he worked as Parliamentary State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office. He has been a representative and councillor of the municipality of Marcali since 1990. He died in the 68th year of his life. I would ask you to pay tribute to the memory of our fellow Members with a silent standing. [[The people present salute the memory of the deceased with a minute's silence.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, Lóránt Keresztes, on behalf of the LMP, applied for a pre-meeting speech. There you go. I'll give you the floor.
u2023-05-22-1	[[His mic's not working.]] Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Women and Lords, [[Intercoms: No sound!]]
u2023-05-22-2	I'm sorry, we can't hear your voice. [[You must sing in that microphone!]] Here you go.
u2023-05-22-3	[[For portable microphones:]] Thank you again for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Women and Secretary of State, Lords! Your government has made a political decision to serve all the batteries companies in the Far East, and you have also decided that whatever it takes, they are willing to pay any price to implement the so-called industrial strategy. Over the last few months, we've seen a lot of shocking decisions. I'd like to mention some examples. You fired the water leader who described the reality of the gigantic Chinese battery factory planned for Debrecen and who drew attention to the serious risks. You ignore the clear criticism of the Hungarian Chamber of Engineers, which stated that the authorisation procedure for battery factories in Hungary is virtually chaotic. The Battery Association has also pointed out that the environmental use of these factories is so serious, so significant, and there are so many problems with the operation of existing factories that we should have a clear, honest exploratory dialogue, but you are not willing to do so. László Palkovics also made it clear that battery production is anything but environmentally friendly and not energy-friendly. Well, we see that with László Palkovics gone, the frank government speech on this subject has ceased. I see that you have no arguments, that everyone who wants to protect their own city has become an enemy, or that you are raising your word to protect our natural treasures. We believe that if you had the truth on this issue, you would always ask people when announcing another investment. If you had the truth, you wouldn't have lied in Debrecen when you announced another battery company. Here, specifically, the mayor lied in answering questions about this at the beginning of the year. If you were right, you would not be able to encrypt all the strategic documents that are referred to on a regular basis, such as the so-called grey water strategy that does not appear to exist. And if you had the truth, you wouldn't want to hide reality when the local civilians were interested in the factory in Göd about the water test results, they wouldn't have been encrypted. And if you had the truth, and if you were sure of that, I would dare ask the Hungarian people how they would like to invite thousands of migrant workers into the country. Well, we will not give up, but we will continue to ask questions and come forward with proposals to this House. Last week, three proposals were submitted by the LMP faction, and you voted against this on Thursday, despite the fact that you are constantly talking about the actions that these proposals have aimed at. Tomorrow in Debrecen, at 6:00 p.m., there will be a demonstration of the new battery factory in Debrecen, and I would like to send a clear message from you; I would like to tell them what you will answer to the following questions. The fact is that in Hungary, you are on the road and road, you are saying that strict environmental rules must be complied with by the battery companies, and yet, in the case of the Göd factory, the government office has given practically exemption from the strict rules. [[13.10]] The Hungarian Chamber of Engineers pointed out that the authorisation procedure was so flawed that emissions data, water consumption data and energy consumption are now unknown in the Göd case. We have tabled a proposal aimed at ensuring that a factory can operate only if continuous and mandatory air quality, water quality and noise measurement procedures are used, not encrypted, but published results; and if pollution cannot be prevented, if pollution occurs, the factory must be stopped. You voted against that. Please explain to people why they chose to do this. It can also be seen that you have given billions of dollars of support to companies, and they do not want this back even if these companies regularly ignore the Hungarian laws. In Hungary, a South Korean company established Europe's largest battery recycling plant, and there are ongoing violations, and ridiculously low fines could not prevent it. Unfortunately, there were so-called technological explosions at the premises of the company in Bátonyterénye and Szigetszentmiklós, which unfortunately resulted in the death of one of the employees in March. We put forward a proposal that clearly meant that if a company ignores Hungarian laws, then, on the one hand, a reasonable fine for revenue can be imposed on the authorities, and, on the other hand, if it does not care about compliance with Hungarian rules, if it endangers the health of workers and the environment, then pay back the billions of dollars of Hungarian people's money. You voted against that, too. Please explain why. And we have also tabled a motion to prevent locals from ignoring the views of such a battery factory or related hazardous plant. You said no to that, too. The mayor of Debrecen made it clear that he would make that planned investment even if the Debrecen didn't want it. In practice, you have confirmed with national validity that you are making the political decision and do not wish to listen to the people. Well, that's why we're organizing a protest tomorrow night at 6:00 p.m. to Debrecen, Trap Street. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause from the opposition.]]
u2023-05-22-4	I give the floor to Mrs Zsófia Koncz, State Secretary.
u2023-05-22-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Firstly, I would like to point out that we consider dialogue very important and, of course, we consider it important that we speak and agree on a local issue. I believe that this has happened in this matter in the last few months here within the walls of Parliament. As the Member pointed out, we really believe that not only in the case of battery factories, but also in the case of all Hungarian investments, the most stringent environmental rules are respected by the person who builds this factory. In the case of the Debrecen CATL battery plant, the strictest procedure has been carried out, the Government Office of Hajdú-Bihar Vármegyei has imposed a number of obligations on the investor in order to protect environmental elements such as soil, air, nature, water and noise. The environmental authority issued the permit on 13 February 2023, the decision became final on 18 February 2023, the document is available to the public on the website of the Government Office. However, we have also said this several times and I would like to emphasise this once again, as there is more information on how important it is for Hungary to participate in the technological competition that affects the automotive industry. As you know, Congressman, in the automotive industry, there are hundreds of thousands of people working in Hungary; and I always wonder when I see the various actions of the LMP, whether in 2010, when unemployment was 12 percent, they would have struck the horses with such vehemency. However, it has already been said here that today there are battery factories in France, the Netherlands, Poland, Great Britain, Italy, Sweden and Spain, and it is expected that half of the 27 Member States will produce lithium-ion batteries. Only in Germany is expected to be 14 battery factories. There was a news from Northern France that a Taiwanese company had chosen France to compete with Dutch and German competitors due to the intervention of President Macron, the subsidies offered and competitive energy prices, making it the fourth such facility in northern France. It is also recent news that the Swedish Northvolt company wants to build two battery factories in Europe. One of the possible locations is Germany, where they are trying to remove all obstacles to the investment because they do not want the factory to be built in the USA because of the more favourable conditions offered there; that is, the whole world seems to be really involved in this competition and it can be stated that there is technology competition today. Here it has been mentioned several times that Frans Timmermans, on the left, has called on the European Union to produce mass electric accumulators, and it is also news in this respect that the European Commission has approved a Spanish programme of EUR 837 million to support the production of batteries for the industrial chain of electric and related vehicles in order to facilitate the transition to a net zero economy to achieve the objectives of the European Green Agreement. According to the Ministry of Economy of Thuringia, the Land benefits from the battery plant, the new technology and the new jobs created. It can be stated that, since 14 percent of global emissions are related to road transport, we cannot protect the Earth without the electrical shift of the automotive industry; and the fact is that, by the way, I think that we have agreed with Mr Member personally and with the entire LMP fraction on this matter, and something has happened here. I don't know what happened along the way, something happened. I am glad that Mr. Group Leader is smiling; he also has a very, I think, timely and good quote that he gave in an interview. He said that it is not good for the opposition to turn everything into a symbolic question [[Péter Ungár: This is a specific factory.]] And with all his might, he wants to force his own problems on the electorate. That's what we did in the last cycle, and it ended in a bad fall, so we shouldn't make the same mistake. [[Szabó Timea: The battery factory is not symbolic, unfortunately.]] I think that every time she is here, she speaks very, very passionately, and I am pleased, but in 2021, at their joint press conference, they really demanded that a battery factory be built in Dunaújváros, not so long ago, and therefore we do not understand what has happened here, within the walls of Parliament, and what has been the reason for this páli turn. So I would ask Congressman to support this government action. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-22-6	Although Szabó Timea has already spoken before the agenda without the relevant provision of the house rules [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] But I'll give you the floor later, so try to stay in five minutes.
u2023-05-22-7	Dear House, A final judgment was recently reached in the horrific case in which a tutor was sentenced to 28 years in prison by the Romanian court for sexually assaulting and systematically raping 8-10-16-year-old boys and teenage boys for ten years. Brother Böjte, according to one of the favorite fathers of the Orbán government, this was a lone perp, he was completely innocent, he didn't know anything, the case was solved, and he even said that he hoped that everyone who criticized him from now on would be punished. Let's go see the government's favorite father, whom Miklós Kásler has even nominated for a Nobel Peace Prize a little bit closer to these matters. I repeat once again: for ten years, little boys were raped in Father Böjte's homes, so-called Böjte homes. It's not realistic that the maintainer didn't know about these cases. In addition, Mérce and Átlátsző recently published a very long fact-finding paper that another 15-year-old girl, Mónika Bogár, in another, so not lonely case, finally came up with the name and face of her terrible story, that in 2015-2016 she was also systematically raped by one of the tutors in the Böjte homes. Now, for Father Böjte to say that he was innocent of this, he himself fired this tutor, although he fired him after a long circus, but he fired him so that he still had the foundation's SUV registered in his name and carried the victim screaming that he had to fire his friend. [[13.20]] It's not isolated cases. And let us also mention, although it is not very closely about child abuse, how Father Böjte confessed about women at a Mother's Day ceremony this year. He said women are a little bit hysterical when they knock on their shoulders with the ax's degree, screaming. I'd like to see that if I knock Father Böjte on his shoulder with an axe, he'll be laughing, or maybe he'll take it a little bit the wrong way. But he also said about women, that they need to be taken to a hairdresser and get them clothes in a tavern, and then they'll calm down. It's a literal quote from Father Böjte's memorial. The fact is, I would also like to send a message to Father Böjte, who is now claiming to be a victim, that he is not the victim, but the dozens of little boys and girls who have been systematically raped in his supervised homes for ten years. But this case is not about Father Böjte, in order to avoid misunderstandings, but about the Orbán government's two-faced and mean attitude in child protection. We have not heard in one sentence that the government has condemned Father Böjte and the violence in Böjte homes. We know that victims are not protected when it comes to real problems, and the perpetrators are not even convicted orally. It's not enough for the court to say that you're conducting a disgusting, vile LGBTQ propaganda about non-transmutation surgeries that don't exist in kindergartens. When I asked the welfare committee the other day to tell me how many cases have occurred in kindergartens, of course they said it was zero. You don't protect the real victims! The Dialogue-Greens initiated that after the horrific incident in Nyíregyháza the other day, when the body of a two-year-old boy was found in the trunk, and a few weeks before that, it turned out that a little girl who had been adopted was constantly a victim of sexual violence by her adoptive father. In Western Europe, there are very strict conditions for becoming a foster parent, and at home they literally drive a loud car through villages to see who wants to be a foster parent. They choose completely unfit people, so, unfortunately, systematic abuse is natural. I asked you to set up a case-by-case committee together to make the system better, but you rejected it. If Fidesz-KDNP is really in favour of child protection, then it will help us to protect together all vulnerable young Hungarian children and girls who live in foster care networks and are not swept off the table with LGBTQ propaganda. Help these vulnerable children! Thank you. [[Applause in the lines of Dialogue and LMP.]]
u2023-05-22-8	In response, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2023-05-22-9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Congresswoman! Dear House, If you will recall, after the work of your Members has been completed, what speeches you may have had to consider more, I think this will certainly be one of them. First of all, it is a question of child protection: the government obviously condemns anyone who commits any violence against children, especially sexual violence. Anyone who has children, who considers something unacceptable, but who doesn't have children, I think it's exactly that if you molest a child, harass or do anything like that. This is unacceptable. In contrast to those who do this, we have accepted an amendment of the law, honourable Member, we have, and you have not, which has made the punishment more stringent, which has made the statute of limitations more stringent, and in some cases does not lapse, which has created a register so that everyone can check that no one who has previously been convicted of a sexual offence against children gets close to their children. We voted in favour and you did not vote in favour of these proposals. We also launched a referendum on this, and as many people in Hungary have never voted in the same direction as in this referendum on child protection: 3.6 million people! This was much more than the votes the Fidesz-KDNP received. In Hungarian, this issue is far-reaching in people in a position close to consensus, and the overwhelming majority of people support the issue of child protection. Yet all you have done in this referendum is encourage people to write obscene signs, obscene texts, or draw on the ballot paper, and then photograph it, and you will publish it well. The issue of child protection has been so important that people have been encouraged to vote invalid, to vote against the proposal or to draw obscene signs on the ballots. That is how important this has been to you, honourable Member. But what's shocking is that when your party doesn't do well in polls, they don't do it. To challenge Brother Csaba Böjte in a speech before Parliament's agenda, honourable Member. If we add all of us together, on the pro-government and opposition side, how much we personally did for orphan children or for children who have parents but do not care about them, they can grow up under human conditions, well, we here in 199 didn't do as much as Csaba Böjte alone, as a monk, as a member of a minority, accepting everyone, Hungarians, Romanians and everyone, without prejudice. That's what he's been spending his life on. He does not accumulate anything in his life, material possessions, glory, or anything else, but deals with the one thing that children do not grow up orphaned. Because it can't be worse for a child than being pushed away. When you look at it, it helped about 6,000 children grow up under caring circumstances. And you don't thank him for trying to accommodate 6,000 children, Hungarian and Romanian children in a home, in certain circumstances, to provide accommodation, to provide meals, to care for them, to cherish them, not to talk about it, but to attack the man to whom respect and appreciation are expressed when we think of him. Because he really put his life on the line so that he wouldn't take anything for himself, collect anything on this Earth, only and only help the child grow up in love. Because if someone grows up outcast, alone, lonely, in need, if their childhood is that my parents didn't want me, then they'll definitely be a sadder and maybe worse person than if someone took him in a big home and helped him. And then you come here and attack him? ! Obviously, he too, if he finds any maladministration or abuse in his homes of hundreds of employees, he will act against it immediately. Have you come here, the Hungarian left, to attack the man who is truly selfless and a role model for the whole of the world? ! [[Szabó Timea: Example? You're kidding!]] Many have done much to enable him to continue this helper's work and to look at it as an example. [[Szabó Timea: The man who looked away when children were raped?!]] Many people have sacrificed years or years of their lives to the fact that since Brother Csaba has done what he has done to dedicate his life to others, because of his charisma, others have also undertaken to take six months to help him for a year. Or I'll organize a concert to get another home, and they'll keep organizing dozens of charity actions. And instead of doing the same, instead of helping a man who doesn't consider himself important, he's accusing him of the orphaned children, the outcast children. Well, shame on you, Congresswoman. [[Szabó Timea: Shame on you!]] Accusing the man who helped thousands of children? ! When you think back, this was one of your darkest speeches in Parliament's history. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Szabó Timea: A child was raped!]]
u2023-05-22-10	László Toroczkai, leader of the group of Mi Hazank, applied for a pre-meeting speech. I give the floor to the congressman.
u2023-05-22-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Encouraging our success, the national campaign and the collection of signatures launched by the Hungarian Movement seems to be starting to get the government to understand the issue of drilled wells. [[Bence Rétvári: And the case of dug wells!]] We would now like to draw attention to another very serious problem, with which the government and the governing parties have been campaigning regularly for many years. This is a question of mass, illegal migration and border protection. I would like to separate this immediately, because border protection and mass migration are quite different. Unfortunately, in Hungary, mass migration was stopped by the government not by the otherwise very good and necessary border fence, but by the low wages and high prices. However, border protection is becoming increasingly disastrous, and the southern part of Hungary, especially the border region, is beginning to reflect a state near anarchy. There is no peace to talk about in the border region, where car wrecks abandoned by smugglers everywhere and often beaten up by locals show as a kind of memento that government work in this area is not enough. [[13.30]] One of the main reasons for this is that the fence itself, if the proper regulation and the legal background are not provided by the government or the majority of the government, does not work on its own. For at the moment, you risk the lives of police officers or border hunters who are protecting the border, who I would like to thank for your work before, say, Mr. Secretary of State says that I do not thank them for their work, I thank them for their work, and I am particularly concerned about their lives, because now there is such an extensive, professionally organised international smuggling mafia in the area of the Hungarian-Serbian border, which is completely unprecedented. This type of organised crime may have been the last time in Hungary in the nineties, but they don't talk about it. And it is now not only that in the areas of Horgos and Subotica, in the villages mostly inhabited by Hungarians, these foreign smugglers, armed to the teeth, shooting day and night, but it is now that these foreign criminal organizations have also appeared in the area of Szeged, who, I say once more, walk with sharp firearms. A few weeks ago, due to social media, half the country saw a photo of a Hungarian police car being attacked with an iron rod and a few centimeters from the body of the policeman driving the car, so it was very close to immediate danger. Yet, when the Hungarian police, at the risk of their lives, capture illegal border offenders who, as I have just said, do not go to Hungary because of the low wages and high prices, but want to go further to Austria or Germany, there is a much greater danger, but the subject of a separate speech may be that, for example, migrants brought here organised in battery factories, whether from India or Bangladesh, but I am talking directly about the southern border region. So the problem is that when, at the risk of his life, the Hungarian policeman, the Hungarian border hunter and we are very sorry that we are not talking about border guards, when they catch illegal intruders, they can do nothing but taxi them back to the Serbian side of the border with the Hungarian taxpayers' money. Then, in a few hours' time, we will meet again with these migrants, who are risking the lives of Hungarian citizens, our countrymen and the Hungarian police. We are therefore asking the government to change the legislation in force, the legal background in force. This change is necessary in two respects. One is that those who are captured in the region should not be released or taxied back to Serbia, but should be placed in a place where the damage caused to Hungary is being processed so that they do not want to try again through Hungary. On the other hand, police officers who risk their lives protecting the border region will be given the legal authority to use their firearms in such a situation when they threaten their lives directly with an iron rod. They'll use it, and when they use it, they'll be in the mood for human smugglers to try it here. Unfortunately, the government does not make such messages, but does, for example, what we were shocked to hear a few days ago, that 2,600 foreign smugglers simply released, which is outrageous. So we're asking the government not only to speak, but to really defend the southern border. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-05-22-12	Once again, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2023-05-22-13	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, Since 2015, there has been a debate between the Hungarian government and Brussels, between the Hungarian government and the Hungarian left, that immigration is a problem, illegal immigration, or, as is said in Brussels and on the left in Hungary, is an opportunity. Klára Dobrev, the candidate for shadow minister or shadow minister of the left, said that immigration is a brilliant communication trick; if Viktor Orbán were to rebel against UFOs, today the majority of people in Hungary would be afraid of UFOs. So they call it a non-existent problem. Ferenc Gyurcsány, his husband, said nothing else: "The government builds on the worst instincts when it wants to put a fence on the border. Gergely Christmas said that the border fence should not be built in any way. According to Ágnes Kunhalmi, the country that draws a wall at its borders is going to die because it is putting itself in a ghetto, and immigration is a false problem created by Fidesz. The Member of the Momentum, Anna Russian, said that in the medium term domestic workers benefit from immigration because their wages increase; therefore, they are also particularly pleased with illegal migration. And Bence of Turdai said that the fence built on the southern border is pointless, inhuman and wasteful. This is, therefore, the position of the Hungarian left regarding the fence that helped us to stop 271 thousand illegal attempts to cross the border last year and reverse them. Everyone should think that today almost everyone in the world who deals with immigration knows that the fence is on the Hungarian southern border. Everybody knows that. [[Interjection from the ranks of our country: Whose idea was it?]] Whether this news is in Western Europe, Central Europe, North Africa, the Middle East, this information has reached everyone, nevertheless, the border hunters have turned back 271 thousand times, the police have turned those who wanted to come through illegally, through the fence, not with papers, legally at the border crossing, but illegally through the fence. And whoever follows the news sees that it's already a double fence, we pushed it with a swan's neck, an ipsylon-shaped barbed wire well, so it's even more difficult to get through it. We've built a piece of fence where it's harder to support the ladder against the fence, because there's a big warehouse full of seized ladders that they're trying to cross over the barbed wire. It's a smart fence, because it senses movement, it's equipped with night vision cameras, and the bottom part is reinforced with an iron structure and an iron net, which is also used on the reinforced concrete, precisely so that they can't be cut so that they can't be touched, so they have lower voltage currents. So everything that can be done in these technical circumstances, with really smart equipment, night vision cameras, we have tried to do precisely to help those who defend the Hungarian southern border as a profession, not as a job, as a profession, whether it is border hunters or police officers on the border. But if we look at it, there really hasn't been a decrease in the aggressiveness of human smugglers and obviously illegal migrants. There have been nine violent attacks on the border protector this year, 79 attacks on their vehicles. I have seen such cars; indeed, there is no part of them on which there is no dent, because they have been attacked so many times, thrown at these cars, even though they are equipped with strong protective equipment, nets, bars; but even the frame of the bars must be reinforced several times to prevent them from being damaged or harmed by them. In 32 cases, the temporary safety seal or the technical equipment on it was damaged. Thus, its violence has not decreased to illegal immigrants and smugglers, but is constantly arriving at the Hungarian southern border. This has a very significant cost. Hungary has spent 650 billion forints to protect the southern border, to build the fence on the one hand, and to protect it on the other, and only one percent of it has been paid by the European Union, even though we are protecting the border of the European Union. Obviously, the most vital solution would be for the European Union to try to stop illegal migrants at the first border, i.e. at Turkey's border with Bulgaria and Greece, just as we are protecting not only the Hungarian southern border, but also at the southern border of Serbia with 30-50 people to help with border protection there, but Brussels is still deaf to this problem. A few weeks ago, there was a joint declaration with seven European Member States lying along the border. In February, 15 EU Member States adopted a joint declaration, and 15 Home Affairs Ministers of 15 Member States adopted a joint declaration in Athens stating that the Union must participate in border protection and finance the protection of external borders, but no meaningful response has been received from Brussels to date. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-22-14	On behalf of Jobbik, Mr Zoltán Sas asked for an opportunity to comment before the agenda. Here you go.
u2023-05-22-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, In recent years, the number of attacks on police officers, which are legally taking action, has tripled. I think it's an intolerable condition. In the last year, nearly 250 cases of assault have occurred, and about 150 have been reportedly damaged by police vehicles. From this we can see that practically every day there is an attack. These attacks are carried out mainly in the Serbian-Hungarian border section, following the Schengen accession of Croatia, almost exclusively on the Serbian-Hungarian border section, but due to the nature of the smuggling of people on the M5 motorway, the internal areas are also affected by this kind of violence, and violence is also committed in the internal parts of Hungary. Perhaps the saddest example or the most tragic example occurred this year when a police officer lost his life in such an attack. [[13.40]] Let's see who the vast majority of these attacks are. In the Serbian-Hungarian border section, virtually all attacks are carried out by members of the gangs of people who are organically linked to organised criminal circles. They are the ones who have settled on migration, they are the ones who take advantage of, loot, abuse immigrants, but also violently attack our police and our border hunters. Sometimes, not to mention, they engage in various territorial wars with each other, thus repeating the situation in the United States during the prohibition of alcohol in the 1920s, when the fundamental pillars of the operation of organised crime, in particular, the money, were acquired in this way. This is now a phenomenon at European level, and I think that we must take action against it. I've been to the border several times myself. I must say that the members of these smuggling gangs are attacking our police officers with incredible determination and organization. There were stones, sticks, machine guns and other scary things. Personally, a police officer gave me a marble. [[He's showing it to me.]] They're practically shot out of slingshots, and if they listen, [[He's gonna use the marble to jog his bench.]] It's no joke if someone gets hit in the face by a marble like that. I am convinced that, in addition to the EU's wages, the current government's task is to ensure that Hungarian police officers can receive the same wages for the same tasks as their colleagues in the European Union, in addition to providing our police officers with adequate protective equipment. These protective equipment are primarily cut- and puncture-resistant, bulletproof vests, which are not located in the trunk of service vehicles, where they are located as statistical data, but on the body of uniformed police officers during their service. I also have to say that the Jobbik-Conservatives have repeatedly suggested and we also maintain that the uniformed staff serving the public service is equipped with body cameras. These cameras have proven internationally that they have both a deterrent effect and a subsequent investigation of any police measures will make it much simpler. Otherwise, this is not a devil's thing, because there is one in Hungary: on some lines of the MÁV, ticketers were equipped with these devices, and I have to say that these devices work effectively there, so attacks against ticket agents have been reduced, and if there is one, this will greatly facilitate the detection of the perpetrators. The Jobbik-Conservatives are absolutely partners in the fact that if we make the right legislation... and see whether the current legislation will achieve the goal that the legislator had once planned. In particular, it is a crime of violence against officials and smuggling of people. We want legislation that protects legally acting police officers and all decent Hungarian citizens as shields, but at the same time they strike down those perpetrators who use violence as the sharpest sword with the greatest efficiency in existence, especially in their legal action against police officers. I have to say that in a normal Hungary, smugglers are, in particular, smugglers who have used force against policemen who have been released from prison when their final judgment has been served, and not when someone thinks that their detention is expensive, or when they think that there is not enough room in prisons. If there is not enough room in prisons, honourable Members, then after building a stadium, it is necessary to start building prisons. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2023-05-22-16	Secretary Tamás Vargha will answer. I give you the floor.
u2023-05-22-17	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Since 2015, we have been protecting Hungary's borders and borders more strongly, and we have protected them together with the police of the Ministry of Interior until 31 December of this year. I think it was an exemplary cooperation between our soldiers and our police officers. We can remember that in 2015 the number of migrants arriving at the borders of Hungary rose radically compared to the 2014 figures. And then we had to build a fence, and this was done together by soldiers and policemen. The protection of the border is, of course, the Ministry of Interior's job, and our officers patrolled with the help of our soldiers until 31 December of last year. The numbers keep rising. Mr. Secretary of State has also mentioned and referred to the fact that the numbers are rising again. In case you might notice that the Hungarian-Serbian or Hungarian-Croatian border numbers are decreasing, it is not because fewer migrants, fewer illegal immigrants are arriving, but because the protection of the Hungarian border is excellent: we have built physical protection, we added electronic protection and legal protection. The Secretary of State explained how we strengthened the fence and how we reacted to the various attempts of migrants, which, of course, is being done with the help and consent of smugglers. The reason why fewer people arrive at the Hungarian border section is because they know that it is harder to penetrate and cross the Hungarian border section, so they arrive on different roads to Europe. If we remember, Mr Secretary of State also mentioned that Brussels is constantly holding back HUF 650 billion. Since 2015 we have been strictly and on our own behalf defending the southern border of the European Union, Hungary would be entitled to HUF 650 billion in Hungarian border protection expenditure. A total of 1 percent has been reimbursed by the European Union so far. The Hungarian soldiers also had to be withdrawn from the Hungarian-Serbian and Hungarian-Croatian border section because of the challenges caused by the Russian-Ukrainian war, and the army of the police began their service there, now defending the Hungarian border without the help of the Hungarian soldiers, but with the same strength and equally well served. The soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces must now prepare for further development and renewal at both operational and strategic levels, so we will do our best. The military development programme, which we are naturally continuing, also started in 2015, constantly observing the challenges created by the Russian-Ukrainian war, since everything needs to be prepared, and I think that Hungarian soldiers are prepared to defend Hungary's security. There's an increase in the budget. This year we have already come close to 2 percent of GDP, if we recall, this was our commitment at the NATO Summit in Wales when we agreed to reach 2 percent of GDP. This will happen next year. In the draft budget of 2024 we achieve 2% of GDP. We know that this is not the upper limit, but this will be the basic level that all NATO countries must fulfil. So 2 percent is in the next draft budget, the Hungarian people are safe, Hungary is safe, because the Hungarian Army is protected by prepared soldiers. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-22-18	The group leader of the MSZP, Mr Bertalan Tóth, also came forward before the agenda. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2023-05-22-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I usually criticize the Orbán government, but now I would like to tell you about its feats, because there is a performance to be remembered in a worthy manner, which no government can say about itself. Dear fellow Members, Well, what government could bring together 25 percent loss of money, 40-50 percent increase in food? Which government was able to bring together a 14.1 percent real wage reduction? Which government was able to devalue pensions to such an extent? I'll tell you, it's just the Orbán government. That is why we are talking about inflation in Orbán, which we are unfortunately experiencing every day. My fellow Members, this is a good time to applaud, and this is your performance. It's a unique achievement, you can be proud of. [[13.50]] I'll tell you something else: besides Turkey, what parliament hasn't been able to get to the point of ratifying the accession to Sweden in ten months? But I could mention that a terrorist has just been released. That's right, the Fidesz MEPs can also be proud of this feat, and we, along with millions of our countrymen, are more ashamed. During the past year, you have had a good sense of Hungary's most serious problems, and our Golden Bull Memorial Day and our canopy-free canopy-free canopy walk, and in the modest tone of the aggressor Putin's wishes, you also remembered the one-year anniversary of the war in our neighborhood. In the meantime, the failure to move forward on the EU funds needed to catch up with the country has obviously been a secondary problem. Poor Tibor Navracsics won't be able to announce new dates. After all, we have plenty of time, because the economy has only been in recession for nine months, and the Butcher interests obviously still have a spare. But I could also mention the feat of performance, as it was arranged, that Viktor Orbán's salary should now rise by 135 percent, regardless of the growth of Lőrinc Mészáros. You must be very proud of him. But you didn't stop halfway, because millions or hundreds of thousands of people have raised the salaries of state secretaries, government officials and government executives, as well as the benefits of law enforcement agencies that look after you. The fact that our taxes are being spent on this, while there are fewer and fewer teachers, there is a growing crisis in the health and social sector, obviously none of you are bothered. Ladies and gentlemen, László Fatvér, before he was a president, said on a sign hanging around his neck: in a police state, the policeman's salary is higher than his teacher's, in a state of law. Today, the situation is that a starting teacher takes 260,000 forints home, while a police officer takes 340,000 forints. Today, government propaganda has a ministry, but education and police have the same ministry, not the Ministry of Education, but the Ministry of Interior. The situation today is that young people who stand up for quality education, freedom of learning, are trying to suppress the voice of power through tear gas, baton, shock and intimidation. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President. You have succeeded in achieving what was protested against 33-34 years ago. It's not everyday performance, you should be ashamed of yourselves. You see as an opponent a citizen capable of critical thinking and self-reliance, because it is in their interest that the school raises a group of vulnerable, obedient subjects who will be able to work in a Chinese battery factory for low wages. This is why our best-performing students go abroad, which is why they flee, who can, from public schools to private schools, and it is everyday experience that, let alone eliminate it, it enhances the disadvantages of home. In front of us, the future of this country is being wasted day after day. And another thought, ladies and gentlemen, is that teachers' career models should not be discussed with opposition parties, but with teachers' unions. For our future, for Hungary! Thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-05-22-20	In response, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, has the floor.
u2023-05-22-21	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, You spoke about the performance of the Hungarian government. If you don't mind, I'd like to talk about your party's performance as an introduction. Because what your party has done here in the last few years, especially since you were first party president, and then, you know, now you're a faction leader, you've put the party president's responsibility back a little bit. [[Intervention from the ranks of the MSZP: It is a democratic party!]] Well, yeah, you've come from more than 40 percent support and government to the point where the opposition has become a dwarf party. It's not me, it's the polls... [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]]
u2023-05-22-22	Congresswoman, please...
u2023-05-22-23	...that 1-2 percent support for MSZP. I understand, of course, that you are an opposition party even if you stand at 1 percent and it is clear that the government must be criticised. [[László Varju: The government must be criticised.]] But before you do that, I want you to look into how you handled inflation, how you handled the pension increase. [[László Varju: Good!]] how the increase in income was managed during that period [[Kálmán Olga: And you?]] When the country was in a difficult situation, in your time of government, perhaps in crisis. As regards inflation management, you forgot to talk about the fact that there is a war in this situation, which the left is basically supporting. [[A voice from the opposition: That is not true!]] If it were up to the left, we'd be transporting weapons from our own budget to Ukraine. [[A statement from the opposition's benches: Lies!]] To fight. [[A voice from the opposition: Lies!]] If it were up to you, the Friendship would no longer come to Hungary on the oil pipeline, and other sanctions would be imposed on the country, because you supported the sanctions package of the European Union. [[Intervention from the opposition benches: Orbán voted for it!]] This would have caused the country such damage that it would have been inaccessible if the Hungarian government had failed to make this exception out of the sanctions packages, personally Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Then he did not mention the damage he was causing, and in this difficult economic situation, the damage caused by the failure to bring EU funds to Hungary. You are in an alliance with DK, Ferenc Gyurcsány, once again your manager, your boss, said that you are doing everything you can to ensure that EU funds do not arrive in Hungary, that you are unable to write applications for businesses, that you do not receive funding for the teacher's wage increase. We believe rightly, although you did not say that you agree with this, because there are people in the left-wing community who want this country to fail; and no matter how many hundreds of thousands of people would find it more difficult to live from the current situation, one matters to you to gain power and to take over Hungary's leadership and control. At what cost, you don't care. Dear Chief of Staff, I believe that this government will, of course, do everything in its power to protect Hungarian families, to protect Hungarian pensioners, to protect jobs and to protect the reduction of rent. I think that if you think about it, just as there are several points from their five-point rescue package that this government has already done, you would rather support the government's policies and programs supporting families than, by the way, Ferenc Gyurcsány, which is about destroying Hungary. Well, we don't want that. Thank you very much. [[László Varju: I'll be right back, I'll tell you, okay? A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-22-24	I now give the floor to Louis of Levočei, representative of Momentum.
u2023-05-22-25	It's gonna be hard to talk after this. Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna list crimes, and then, please, nod your head when you recognize the perpetrators. Molotov cocktail attacks against SZDSZ and MSZP party offices; iron bars were used to beat a former socialist representative; shot at the house of István Hiller and threw Molotov cocktails at the building of Minister János Kóka. Arson attacks were carried out against six other representatives; then, following the burning of the Broadway Ticket Office and the attack on a nightclub visited by the LGBTQ community, a bomb attack was carried out at the holiday home of György Szilvásy, Minister without a wallet for civilian secret services. [[14.00]] In the spring of 2009, a series of bombings were planned to prevent the replacement of the resigned prime minister, which was finally prevented by the police. Ladies and gentlemen, Nod, please. You do know who committed these crimes quoting the world of the Italian mob, don't you? This ruthless gang, these dangerous criminals, was released by Viktor Orbán. In Hungarian practice, we find examples when enforcement grace can be morally protected; for example, such was the case of Kitty Simek, Györgyi Binder, and these grace decisions met with the full consent of society. In the case of György Budaházy, there were no similar factors worth considering. Let's just say the truth. The length of the criminal proceedings you're referring to is not the real reason to be involved in mercy. What's the real reason? What could be the reason that Viktor Orbán has openly become a terrorist petting zoo? What's the real reason? Could it be that it can fit into Viktor Orbán's values so that the Budaházys' series of crimes will remain unpunished? Do you have any plans with the terrorist team? Or was there another deal made with your far-right ally? Whether because you agree with the acts of terrorism committed or because you have an interest in it, Viktor Orbán's decision is morally insufferable. This is very unworthy of a Prime Minister, and for many of the time, Viktor Orbán acted in a cowardly and vile manner when the visit of the Holy Father to Hungary was referred to as part of the decision. Did he agree with the Holy Father about this, or is he just depraved by his name? We can be sure that the pope never asked Orbán to do this, just as the apostles did not ask that Barabas be released instead of Jesus Christ. This is simply unacceptable! On behalf of all my compatriots, regardless of party standing, we don't want a Hungary where convicted terrorists can walk and rise. The Hungarian people have the right to safety and tranquility. The release of violent criminals simply endangers public security. They pardoned a man who didn't even regret his actions, who didn't even apologize to his victims, not in his mind. Budaházy left the prison on horseback, celebrated himself as a hero, even though he's a convicted terrorist. No, the right of mercy wasn't meant to make criminals into stars. This is an abuse of the right of mercy, a threat to public security, a blow to the Hungarians' sense of justice. It is unfortunate that we need fascists capable of everything to maintain the system. [[Bence Rétvári: What do you think of Gyöngyösi?]] So here we are. [[Bence Rétvári: Márton Gyöngyösi!]] Terrorists are released, teachers and protesting children are beaten with a baton and tear gas in their eyes. Now, that's what we're not going to allow. That's why we're here, and we're not backing down! We keep fighting for our children, we keep fighting for our future. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Eszter Vítalos: You push the children in front of you! Shame on you.]]
u2023-05-22-26	Mr Répássy Róbert is the secretary of state.
u2023-05-22-27	Honourable Congressman, You obviously know that the right of individual pardon belongs to the President of the Republic, and while the President of the Republic is not obliged to justify his decisions of grace, he did so in these cases, so the President of the Republic justified his views. I cannot provide you with all the details, because it is not possible to provide you with information about the pardons and pardon procedures at the Ministry of Justice because of the personal data of the data subjects, so I will abide by this legal requirement. But do you know who they were who first demanded Budaházy's mercy? Who were they? 'Cause, you know, this isn't a current case, this is a nearly 15-year-old case. Well, the good guys demanded it. [[Bence Rétvári: Wow!]] Do you remember that Jobbik's logo was on the election posters next to you? [[Lajos Levočei: You let him out!]] Do you remember the Jobbik supported you to be elected? [[László Varju: Who let him out?]] Do you know who you're talking about, Congressman? You're talking about the congressmen who filed an amnesty bill here at the National Assembly for the Budaházys' sake. [[Bence Rétvári: Wow!]] So, honourable Member, it seems to me that since the case is so old, you have forgotten to comment on the history of the case. [[Bence Rétvári: Self-goal!]] So, Congressman, your allies demanded, above all, the release of the Budaházys and the Budaházys' pardon. And as far as the case is concerned, and once again, I try not to violate personality rights. On the one hand, there are four other applicants whose case is pending, who have not yet received any pardons, so neither procedural nor enforcement pardons, so it is not true that everyone has been granted a pardon. On the other hand, you must have read, among the lines, that the President of the Republic has decided to suspend the execution of final prison sentences, but no other punishment is affected by the decision of the President of the Republic. This means that these prisoners, these individuals, will be subject to punishment for a long, long period of years, including banning them from public affairs. Therefore, what you claim here as some sort of political ulterior motive, political manipulation, is simply a lie; it is a lie, because these people are condemned and banned from public affairs. So, on the one hand, the President of the Republic suspended merely the execution of their sentence because of his explanatory statement, and on the other hand, because they spent a long time in criminal proceedings, and I would add that these people were still under arrest in advance, in today's words, for many years. So, honourable Member, what I can tell you is that, above all, you should be informed about the matter, you should talk to your allies. [[Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] Why they wanted to turn this criminal case around, why the right-wingers wanted to prosecute Ferenc Gyurcsány and the police in 2006 cases. Talk to them, because it is very instructive that those who have asked Budaházy for mercy against their current ally, Ferenc Gyurcsány, thought of your current ally. I'm asking you to keep an eye on the case. [[Kálmán Olga: The end justifies the means!]] And I strongly advise that no one should draw a parallel between the current proceedings and the proceedings of grace, because this case has lasted for more than 15 years before justice; I do not wish anyone to be under the weight of justice and prosecution for so long. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Terrorist!]] So I don't advise anyone to make a comparison in these cases. [[Kálmán Olga: Who will be next?]] Honourable Congressman, I ask you to know the President of the Republic's decision exactly. [[Zsolt Gréczy: We met!]] If necessary, ask the Presidential Office of the Republic, the Alexander Palace, if they will give you any information, but they will certainly give you an explanation of all that was in their communication, you can read it again. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-22-28	Now it's László Varju's turn.
u2023-05-22-29	Thank you very much. Dear House, Among the government's answers, I would like to highlight the wrongness of Mr Tállai's conclusions on inflation and help him to better understand the situation that people have been in during the livelihood crisis. It is also difficult to list how many different action plans, called exotic ones, have the Orbán government tried to save the Hungarian economy that was destroyed with its own hands, even though we can easily do this by contrasting only two or two data, and we can safely demonstrate when they failed again. Here are the first two figures: 24.5 percent inflation in Orbán versus 15 percent pension increase. According to Eurostat's latest data, there is 24.5 percent inflation in Orbán in Hungary, which is an absolute negative record in the European Union, no country approaches it, and Romanian inflation is only 10 percent. [[14.10]] Meanwhile, on the proposal of Viktor Orbán, he was able to stand up to pensioners with only a 15% increase this year. A thousand-forint sour cream, a thousand-forint breads on the shelves of shops, and Viktor Orbán tells the elderly: after a life's work, close your eyes, forget about inflation in Orbán. Forget about the biggest food price increase in Europe! Forget it, you pay the world's highest VAT at the cash registers for a number of basic foods, such as vegetables; forget that your pension is slowly being devoured by inflation in Orbán. But believe me, the Hungarians won't forget this. And here are two more figures: according to KSH, the monthly subsistence costs for Hungarians increased by an average of HUF 64 thousand, while HUF 154 280 is the current monthly net minimum wage. Do you hear these two numbers, fellow Members? Do you have any idea what it's like to work 8-12 hours a day with your salary at the end of the month worth less than you would normally need? Have you considered the fact that millions of working people, from young careers to middle-aged family people, experience that their wages are not enough to make a living? In addition, inflation in Orbán has caused the rent prices to drop, the rents to increase by seven times, the interest rates on housing loans are priceless. And because of the high petrol prices, it becomes a luxury to drive to work, take the child to school, get to the kindergarten or go to a doctor, so don't give me a god if his hospital has to go for something, because the ambulance isn't coming. So Viktor Orbán publicly failed. He lied about an action plan, but he only raised prices. Orbán inflation has eaten up salaries and pensions. Meanwhile, the Orbán government has pocketed increasing VAT revenues after rising prices. It has been proven that Viktor Orbán and his government do not know anything about government but sweeping the attic. However, there is already a solution to overcoming inflation in Orbán: Klára Dobrev's shadow government has developed a 13-point anti-inflationary programme that proves that he is ready to put the Hungarian economy in order; he is ready to reduce prices and rent; he is ready to raise salaries and pensions. We would start breaking inflation in Orbán by reducing the VAT on basic foods to zero percent by the end of the year to end historical food price increases. Klára Dobrev's shadow government would then abolish the seven-time increase in fees and system charges, and lower the price of petrol and gas oil by reducing fuel taxes below HUF 500 per litre. But we would not stop here: Klára Dobrev's shadow government would introduce a European minimum wage already approved in Hungary in the European Union. The financial basis for the measures listed is in the budget in the revenue lines, but the shadow government would not otherwise be left behind by taxing the interests of fidesz billionaires, including casinos. All these measures only hurt Viktor Orbán and the Fidesz people, but for millions of Hungarians this is a hope for European prosperity. The shadow government led by Dobrev Klára is working to break down inflation in Orbán and [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] not prices, but wages and pensions. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2023-05-22-30	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2023-05-22-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Firstly, I would like to say briefly about the situation of the Hungarian economy. Perhaps you do not deny that the entire European economy is facing great difficulties. If you look at the forecasts of the major international organisations, the World Bank, the IMF or, say, the OECD, you will see that Europe is predicting the biggest economic downturn of the dominant economic areas. So much so that there is such a large, decisive economic organization that says that there will be no economic growth in Europe, while in the United States it is about 1.5 percent and in China there is also a consensus. [[László Varju: It will be in Hungary, for sure!]] And since Hungary is an export-oriented, open economy, we cannot avoid the effects of this, so we cannot exclude ourselves from the effects of bad Brussels decisions. This is why the Hungarian economy remained on the growth path, with 7 4.6 percent economic growth last year in 2021. At the same time, it can be seen that the negative impact of economic sanctions is really peaking this quarter, which is already seen in the figures. Nevertheless, we expect better figures in the second quarter and growth throughout the year. I know that they are trying to deny this, but it is not an incidental fact that the increase in energy prices, which is the result of sanctions, reduces the scope of the Hungarian economy by HUF 4000 billion. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes. László Varju: What sanctions? You shouldn't have signed a contract like this...]] This is how much our electricity bill has increased, so much more needs to be produced for families, businesses and the Hungarian state. It's not a small amount of money, and it would be much better to spend it on someone else. This is what the economic situation looks like. Now as far as the action plans go, well, you didn't have much of an action plan. [[Laszlo Varju: No, no!]] He didn't have much of an action plan. I would not call it an action plan that hundreds of thousands of Hungarians lost their jobs, put them on the streets, civil servants and others. I wouldn't call it an action plan that the rest of the state's assets were squandered. And I would not call it an action plan that there was no substantial increase in pensions in the years of the left-wing economic crisis. But what does the government do? We're maintaining the price-stops. Even though you claim it's all nonsense, we maintain it. You know, it's about the price stops that you've consistently attacked. We also maintain the food price stop, even obliging larger shops to take action on a continuous basis. On the issue of pensions: you may not try to deny it either, but I am not sure that there was a pension increase again this year, there was a pension premium, there was a pension supplement, and this was the government that gave it back, so you didn't take it away, but you gave back the 13th month pension, which, once again, you took away from them. [[Kálmán Olga: After 13 years...]] And in order to keep the payments going, we're also maintaining interest-stops, and we've even extended them to student loans. I can't help but wonder that when hundreds of thousands of foreign exchange credentials were trapped in debt traps under your government, there was nothing, but there was no help; there was no action plan. Then let's look at the minimum wage, and you mentioned this: how much have you raised in less time under government? Twenty or a few thousand forints. How much did the current government raise? He has tripled so much about which government is actually able to raise minimum wage. We'll keep the overhead down. Not only did they not think of it, but they also said it was stupid. Nearly 70 percent of families pay the same price for electricity, and nearly 80 percent can buy gas for the same price. If it weren't for this measure, an average of HUF 181 thousand per month would be added to each family. Even though you lie about the sevenfold increase in energy prices in Hungary, that is simply not true. But we would also like the transport burden to be reduced, which is why the government has decided to rent the county. It's no coincidence that hundreds of thousands of people have already taken advantage of this. And to say one more thing: small businesses are not forgotten, for many of them we have reduced their electricity charges; more people can use the interest rate stop, and we have doubled the support for going to work. And the thing is, honourable Member, even if you deny it, we could continue this line for a long time. We do not expect you to agree on everything at all, but we rightly hope that you will support those steps, at least those steps that will help hundreds of thousands or millions of Hungarians every day. But if we don't achieve this, we'd settle for the one thing if we didn't run a campaign so that Hungary wouldn't receive the EU funds that it would otherwise have. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-22-32	A representative of KDNP, Ms Hajnalka Juhász, also came forward before the agenda. I give you the floor.
u2023-05-22-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Last week, the European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control visited our country. I would rather say that this committee was thinking in the sitting of the liberal majority of the European Parliament, because I am convinced and in my own good faith that if we come to a country, if we come to a wonderful parliament, it is our fundamental task, regardless of our political position, to give each other respect in the spirit of constructive dialogue. There are committees, such as the LIBE Committee, which at least pretend to do so. [[14.20]] The European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control has not even sought the appearance of mutual respect being given to each other. Three of us, on behalf of the Committee on Economic Affairs, on behalf of Erik Bánki, on behalf of the Committee on Justice, on behalf of Imre Vejkey and the Committee on European Affairs, have represented the steps that the Hungarian Government has taken over the past period, the 17 measures, the super-mile stones, are constantly being taken in agreement with the European Commission in an extremely tight time frame. All they had to say about their preparation was why so many of us received them, so many committees were invited, and it was basically typical that they were informed from press material that if I had to use this word at all costs. All along, I had a feeling and Erik Bánki and Imre Vejkey that this visit was practically a preparation for another Hungarian debate on 31 May, a political pressure exercise. It was extremely sad to see that we were having a very constructive dialogue with the European Commission with the adoption of really tight packages of measures, with the recent adoption of the Justice Package, and that this Liberal Committee of the European Parliament was coming here and doing everything it could to achieve it. [[Zoltán Vajda: President of the People's Party!]] He is doing everything in his power to bring this constructive dialogue to the Commission by putting political pressure on it in another direction. But let's get this straight. I also said at the Commission meeting that the rule of law procedure and the conditioning procedure should be separated. The Committee on Budgets of the European Parliament has nothing to do with the conditioning procedure, and I apologize. More broadly, between Articles 317 to 19 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, it allows budgetary control, but the Committee has an obligation to inform the European Parliament. During the meeting, the chairman of the committee, Monika Hohlmeyer, expected no discrimination from us, while Daniel Freund did not appreciate our delegation to the extent that he did not listen to our report, then came into the delegation room, became personal, completely discriminatory, and then did not listen to our reply and went out the door. Then Monika Hohlmeyer expects us to be free of prejudice. We all know that what Daniel Freund said is about this political issue. If we do not support migration, we do not support war and we do not support gender madness, then we do not have EU funds. This delegation was so unprepared that it accused the Integrity Authority or the Anti-Corruption Task Force of not doing work while they knew precisely that the first report was already up. So from now on, I think that this kind of political pressure is not going to hold up. The Hungarian government has excellent dialogue with the European Commission on a continuous and constructive basis. And this political witch hunt will be completely rejected. And let me be a little picnic. As an alternate member of the Corruption Control Committee, Katalin Cseh has also visited, against whom we are talking about EU funds in particular in relation to fraud which causes significant financial disadvantages, an investigation is under way for the sake of picnicity. I believe that it is a committee, a delegation, that it is fundamentally calling into question its credibility or seriousness. The Hungarian government continues to engage in a constructive dialogue with the European Commission, as EU funds are due to Hungarian people. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-22-34	I give the floor to Secretary Csaba Latorcai. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2023-05-22-35	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to point out that the Government of Hungary has prepared and received the visit of the Committee on Budgetary Control of the European Parliament in the spirit of the greatest possible constructivity. We did so even if he had already presented his opinion before the visit and, as we can see now, the ruling of the left-wing majority of the committee by the left-wing MEP Daniel Freund, when he said that if Hungary maintains its position on migration and child protection in relation to the war, then it will certainly not receive EU money. Of course, this was not the beginning of the pressure of the left against Hungarian people, Hungarian businesses, with international cooperation, threatening them that if they do not dance as international left-wing leaders whistle, they should not dream of getting what they would otherwise be entitled to by law. Just to give you some examples from the last few weeks, Ferenc Gyurcsány himself admitted, and I quote: "Yes, we have worked to give the European Union conditions that break down, or at least weaken, Orbán's world. He also presented the working method on 31 March. He said that this is going to be the way that our extremely active Members of the European Parliament are negotiating in terrible quantities and doing their job with the people of the European Parliament and the European Commission on an ongoing basis. But let us not think that some kind of patriotic interest would guide the representatives of the left in their work, even if Csaba Molnár is trying to justify what they are doing because there is nothing like that. The purely party political and power-technical aspects guide the left-wing Gyurcsány coalition or, as it is called on the left-hand side: the boss, who combined his purpose in the quoted radio declaration as follows:, They go, we come. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Yes, Honourable Parliament, we have come to the point that Ferenc Gyurcsány and the left-wing coalition he has filled with Soros-dollars are trying to deprive Hungarian people, Hungarian entrepreneurs, even from the resources that they would otherwise be entitled to, and he calls this the patriotic obligation of Csaba Molnár, a representative of DK's European Parliament, which he said he would fulfill. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Government, as I mentioned, welcomed the delegation of the European Parliament in the spirit of the most complete constructivity, despite the interesting fact that the committee's Hungarian escort Sándor Rónai, who is the MEP of the DK party that can destroy everything I just said, and the other accompanying Czech Katalin from Momentum, whose corruption of EU funds related to his family business had just been imposed by the Authority a few days ago. Therefore, we should not be surprised that the delegation of the European Parliament did not want to examine the impact of the millions of dollars coming from George Soros to the left of Hungary and their planned impact on European Union funds, and did not even investigate the corruption of Katalin Czech enterprise against EU funds, so they did not want to examine the real, existing corruption threat linked to the left, but we found that the visit was nothing but a new pressure exercise. Put pressure on the European Commission, on the one hand, that, although we have fulfilled all the conditions now, the European Commission should now refer to Hungary, but do not dare to do so. And so pressure is put on the Hungarian people, that, although they have taken a clear position not to ask for migration, they do not ask for gender madness, and they do not ask for war if they do not change their position, they should not expect a cent. In this context, therefore, we should interpret Daniel Freund's words read during last week's visit, which was as follows: . It is not simply that the money must continue to be held back, but the committee must think about the new pressure it would require in order to make a meaningful change on the part of the Hungarian government. It's too bad, unlike The Witness, no one told Daniel Freund that this was the verdict, not the testimony. One thing is certain: we stand by the position of the Hungarian people, there will be no war, there will be no migration and there will be no gender madness in Hungary. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[14.30]]
u2023-05-22-36	On behalf of Fidesz, Róbert Zsigo asked for the floor. I give the floor to the congressman. Here you go.
u2023-05-22-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The atmosphere of war continues in Europe. Most Member States argue in favour of continuing military support to Ukraine, but Hungary stands by its pro-peace position. Unfortunately, there are many who would carry more weapons. However, the Hungarian position is clear from the beginning: we want peace as soon as possible, because the continuation of the war will cost us more lives and threaten the extent of the conflict. We need an immediate ceasefire and peace talks, and then a diplomatic settlement that can guarantee peace and security in the Central European region and throughout the continent in the long term. Dear House, Many people disagree with our pro - peace position and are working to bring us into the war. A number of worrying news has come to light in the last week. The Washington Post reported a February secret service record recording a discussion between President Zelensky and Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine. On this point, the Ukrainian President raised no less than to blow up the Friendship pipeline supplying Russian oil to Hungary; he justified that this would destroy Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's industry. Moreover, this is not the only attempt to exert pressure on the oil pipeline. The CEO of the Ukrainian wire network company spoke openly about transit fees and agricultural restrictions that they received the message from Ursula von der Leyen in Brussels: if the Hungarians are to do so, they can safely stop the supply of oil to Hungary in the Friendship. Dear House, Such a move would pose a serious threat to Hungary's sovereignty. Does Brussels have to explain this immediately: is it true that the Commission's staff have proposed possible blackmail with oil supplies? Brussels bureaucrats need to clarify that they have made any proposals for Ukraine to stop shipping oil. On the other hand, the Commission must respond by proposing to non-EU countries restrictions on the supply of energy to the EU. Finally, Brussels must also distance itself from the use of energy transport as a means of blackmail. It is also interesting that the Hungarian left is deeply silent, and once again they cannot be expected when such serious threats come to our country. All this suggests that they agree with the threats to the pipeline and that they are pro-war. Of course, this would not be the first time they have hoped for political benefits if the country went wrong. Ladies and gentlemen, One of the attempts to exert pressure is that Ukraine has, in a scandalous, unacceptable way, placed the OTP on the list of international sponsors of the war that did not violate any legislation. As long as this is the case, Hungary cannot agree to decisions that would require new economic and financial sacrifices from the European Union and its Member States. This is necessary because another half billion euros would be transferred from the European peace framework to arms shipments to Ukraine, which, unlike the name of the financial fund, would increase the risk of escalation. We are expected to suffer further economic damage, while these steps would not bring us any closer to peace. We agree that the government will not approve the next instalment of financial support until Ukraine removes the OTP from the list of international sponsors of the war. Dear Parliament, These cases also show an increasing pressure on the countries that speak in the voice of peace. At the same time, we know that diplomatic settlement is the only way to save people's lives, so we insist on representing national interests and the cause of peace; it doesn't matter what pressure they put on us in the next period, we will still represent the cause of peace. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-05-22-38	Once again, I give the floor to Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör.
u2023-05-22-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Indeed, according to last week's news, a new tool has been added to the pressure toolbox against Hungary. According to U.S. reports, in Ukraine, they were designed to disable the Friendship pipeline. According to domestic press reports, this intention was also indicated by a Ukrainian company to the Hungarian MOL. And to make it even more serious, this intention could have been approved from the Von der Leyen Cabinet. It is an oil pipeline that provides supply not only for Hungary but also for the whole region. It is a fundamental fact that there is no infrastructure available to replace it, so if it stops, it would endanger not only industry but also the supply of families. This dependence on oil was not developed under current governance; we do not have the oil fields for self-sufficiency, and the infrastructure is included in Annex XX. We inherited it from the century. We'd like to reduce our addiction, but we can't do that in a couple of days. I have to add that it would not be unprecedented if something happened to this pipeline, because a few months ago, the Nord Stream pipeline was blown up in rather strange circumstances. The consequences cannot be emphasised enough: they are the arteries of the European economy. Of course, some people don't mean anything to them. For example, Guy Verhofstadt, the failed leader of liberals in Europe, said that we will suffer, but we will survive. Now he may survive in his Belgian palace, especially if he will continue to sit in the supervisory board of dozens of companies, but many will not survive in Europe for a living. The second means of pressure is to hold back EU funds. That is why a European Parliament control committee came to Hungary last week. It is worth adding that they have come from an institution where several Members have accepted a lot of money to make other countries look better. So even the history was highly controversial. Daniel Freund, one of the auditoriums of the Supervisory Committee, defined the work of the Board by checking that Hungary had done its homework. Now, in this sentence, it's all about: the disdain of the lecturer and the fact that they don't think in equal cooperation between nations, but in an EU where the Brussels institutions are superior to national governments. We could also ask in this House the question of who Daniel Freund is authorized to give Hungary homework. It is just as important to discuss what this homework is all about. We also know that; because a few days ago, the Prime Minister formulated a threefold principle: there is no war, no gender and no migration. The answer immediately came from none other than Daniel Freund: then there is no EU money. Well, that's what I'm talking about. If there's no war, if there's no arms, there's no EU funding. That explains it. We can therefore accept in this House any amendments to the law in the autumn, in the spring; that is not why the financial blockade is not actually lifted. In fact, if anyone has read today's press, Daniel Freund in today's interview says that new pressure is needed. What we do not know is that cutting off oil taps is such a new type of pressure tool, or would like to do something beyond that, but it is unacceptable anyway; because we do not need household superiors, but we need decision-makers who are able to work for Europe while taking into account different national aspects and the will of citizens, for example, that we want peace here in Hungary. The fact is that in this story, the Hungarian left-wing opposition has an incredibly ignominious role. It's not even the best word, because you wanted it to be. The people of Gergely Christmas extol the audit committee to the heavens; the Momentum writes a letter to continue to suspend EU funds; DK simply admits that they were there when they imposed conditions against Hungary which were considered unfulfilled. The question is, who do you represent? I know you've had a lot of experience in this area, but how about once you don't work against your own country? Either way, the Hungarian government is holding to its policy: in this rough situation, we want to be the voice of peace in Europe, even though there are a lot of war shells around us. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]] [[14.40]]
u2023-05-22-40	Dear Parliament, Alexov Lyubomir's opposition to the Serbian minority agenda will now take place, also in a five-minute period, with the title "The Hungarian-Serbian Reconciliation Event" being 10 years old. I give the floor to Alexov Lyubomir, who describes the first sentences in his ethnic language and then translates them into Hungarian. Here you go, Mr. Speaker.
u2023-05-22-41	[[???Köszönöm a szót, elnök úr. Poštovani Predsedniče! Poštovana Skupštino! Mađarsko-srpski suživot od ranog srednjeg veka se vezivao na hiljadu načina. Dinastijske veze, a posle zajednička borba protiv prodiranja turaka, islmama je uputila dva naroda na međusobnu saradnju, život i zajedničku borbu.???]] Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Hungarian-Serbian coexistence has connected the two peoples in a thousand ways since the early Middle Ages. Dynastic relations, later the common struggle against the conquering Ottoman Turks referred to the two peoples to cooperation, to life together and to fight. All of this changed radically when the Turkish conquerors were replaced by the Habsburg rule, which is divided and conquered! On the basis of his principle, he turned them against each other and, if necessary, played them against each other. This is particularly true of the XIXth and the bloody XX. For the next century. The turnaround, and I sincerely hope, for the final reconciliation of the XXI. In the summer of 2013, the Republic of Hungary and the Republic of Serbia took the path of mutual forgiveness. Forgiveness is a willful decision and the only way to say no to hatred; it is a cure for us, a cure for the other party and an example for the nations that are crucified in the world. According to the two presidents' assessment, the day of historic reconciliation will be recorded in gold letters in the history of relations between the two states, as well as a day of friendship and common development. The Hungarians and Serbs lived together in our history were in conflict, as I said, bloody atrocities fueled anger and hatred between the two peoples. Behind the raised oppositions, there were often unscrupulous powers of power, but there is no doubt that the seed of hatred was successfully sown and that friends, schoolmates, neighbors, and even family members were opposed. Sin is the sin that people commit. But we can also say that sin has no nationality, but every victim and every killer has a name. Regardless of ethnic, religious, gender and age, all innocent victims deserve to be remembered and protected from oblivion. At the same time, every flower placed in the pit of our fellow nations, as well as our handshake of reconciliation, points to the civilization of our consciousness, and to our responsibility for the present and future, I quoted the words of the President at that time. Forgiveness is about letting go of digestive anger, but it takes a lot of courage to do so. In the relations between Serbia and Hungary, it took a long time to wait for this turning moment. Finally, the parties were able to face each other and ask for mutual forgiveness for the sins committed by their fellow nations on thousands of innocent Hungarians and Serbs. Forgiveness is the only way to move forward and move towards a peaceful future. The isolation walls of injury have finally fallen. On June 26, 2013, the heads of the Hungarian and Serbian states rolled their heads together in front of Hungarian and Serbian victims who were innocently executed in Csúrog during the World War. The established monument proclaims forgiveness between nations and reminds us that we have freed our souls from the power of hatred and self - control. The main driving force of the Presidents of the Republic to innocently executed was not only to face the past, but also to designate the future life. Over the past ten years, the Hungarian and Serbian nations have done much for bilateral relations. As a result, we have achieved that the Hungarians in Serbia and the Serbs in Hungary have never lived in such peace with the majority nation before. The turn in Serbian-Hungarian relations consists not only of symbolic gestures, but also of dynamic development at the level of the economy. You can't change the past, but you can learn from it. Our gloomy past, perhaps through forgiveness, promises a bright future. Let this be an example for all nations who are overwhelmed by hatred for one another, because forgiveness is essential to making the world better. The Hungarian-Serbian example is not unique, but must be followed. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-22-42	On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Miklós Soltész wishes to respond. I give you the floor.
u2023-05-22-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Speaker, Indeed, we are talking about two people who have suffered a great deal, Serbs and Hungarians. History has brought us together, and as you mentioned, even in the Middle Ages, during the Turkish conquests, during the Turkish conquests, and from 1690 after the unsuccessful Balkan liberation struggles, many tens of thousands of Serbian families and churches came here and lived in peace with us, lived with us, whether it be the Csepel Island, Vác, Pope, Baja, Győr, or the later settlers Szentendre, Pomáz, Tabán and Csobánka. A common struggle, a common culture and centuries of coexistence that marked the two nations. That's what was interrupted by the 19th century. The end of the century, the 20th century. The beginning of the century. This co-existence was broken by unthinkable decisions and terrible acts. Thousands of innocent people suffered and died each other by Hungarians and Serbs. This terrible period was indeed concluded in June 2013 by the many-day meeting of the two Presidents of the Republic, Tomiszlav Nikolic and János Áder in Serbia. On one occasion they spoke at the Hungarian-Serbian Joint Academy Committee, thanking both historians and politicians there for their contributions. President János Áder also spoke in the Serbian Parliament, after which the Serbian Parliament stood up and thanked him for the speech. On June 26, the monument of the innocent Hungarian Vojvodina and later the Serbian victims was wreathed. Let me quote from President János Áder's speech: Where we stand now, people have died. Their death was an irreparable and irreparable consequence of inhumane acts, inhumane emotions. Seven decades ago, blood was spilled on the streets of Drift: blood of abused women, blood of old and young men, blood of children and babies. Hungarian and Serbian people died: innocent Serbs in 1942 and innocent Hungarians in the winter of 1944-45. He went on to say: "The sin has no origin, no nationality, no sinful peoples, there are only sinful deeds, sinful emotions and sinful people. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Dear Parliament, The reconciliation process was part of and assisted by the nationalities living in the two countries, including the Serbs and their leaders in Hungary, the Hungarians and their leaders from Vojvodina in Serbia. Thanks to them, without them this process would not have happened. And thanks to the Christian churches, churches, they helped, just as historians helped this process. It is exemplary and exemplary in the world, showing unique reconciliation. Why is this important, ladies and gentlemen? Why was that an outstanding act ten years ago? Unfortunately, we still remember the terrible South Slavic, Balkan war of the 1990s and its destruction. This is where the war of two siblings destroys our neighbor. Peace is valued, peace is appreciated. The Serbian-Hungarian exemplary relationship would be good if it were a pattern for everyone, it would be good for everyone to feel the responsibility, no one to provoke war, and everyone to serve peace. It is clear to us that we must serve peace within nationalities, among nationalities, to serve peace among the peoples. Our responsibility was no better than the words of the Holy Father's recent words:. The future of hope for the next generations, not war, a future filled with cradles and not graves! We thank you very much for your suggestion, and thank you very much for the last ten years for the Serbian community. God bless you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.50]]
u2023-05-22-44	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2023-05-22-45	Dear Parliament, László Varju, DK; Andrea Hegedüs, DK; Ferenc Varga, independent; Zoltán Varga, DK; Judit Ráczné Földi, DK; Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Zoltán Sas, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik. Antal Csárdi, LMP; Rebecca Szabó, Dialogue; Előd Novák, Mi Hazank; János Bencze, Jobbik; Zsolt Molnár, MSZP; Éva Sebők, Momentum; Balázs Barkóczi, DK; Imre Vejkey, KDNP; Károly Panczél, Fidesz. János Bencze, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik; Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; Dávid Dócs, Mi Hazank. Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; Mónika Bartos, Fidesz; András Fekete-Győr, Momentum.
u2023-05-22-46	Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that there was a motion to suspend the immunity of independent MP Ákos Hadházy on 5 May 2023, 22.Bpk.123/2023/6. I'm a judge of the Egri District Court in a private charge of defamation. I've issued this to the immunity committee to examine it. I would like to inform you that the immunity committee has submitted a proposal for a decision on this matter, so that the agenda proposes that immunity be suspended on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President in his power to speak. Dear Parliament, Parliamentary resolution on certain house rules 37. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament may decide to negotiate certain items of the agenda in a time-frame. The motion put forward by the President initiates the political debate on the organisation of wages for Hungarian workers, V/3987. The Parliament will discuss the number 1 proposal in a four-hour time frame. The agenda recommendation shall include a time frame allocation. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to explain this.
u2023-05-22-47	Dear Parliament, The distribution of the proposed four-hour timeframe is as follows: 81 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 39 minutes for the KDNP Group, 23 minutes for the DK Group, 18 minutes for the Momentum Group, 18 minutes for the MSZP Group, 16 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 14 minutes for the Group of Hungary, 14 minutes for the Dialogue Group, 13 minutes for the LMP Group and 4 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 10-10 minutes lead speakers.
u2023-05-22-48	Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. So I ask this House, and he agrees that the proposal will be discussed within a four-hour time frame. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has accepted the time-frame of the proposal by 124 votes in favour, 39 votes against and two abstentions. We are now deciding on the amendments to the agenda. The Group of the Mi Hazank Group has proposed that the Parliament's proposal to amend the agenda for today's meeting should be amended as T/4026 on the employment of migrant workers in Hungary. The general discussion of bill No 1 should not take place. I declare that Mr László Toroczkai Group Leader has initiated a repetition of the vote using a voting counting machine. In view of this, the hand raise vote is replaced by a voting machine. So please vote with the help of the machine. [[Vote.]] I note that the proposal by our country to amend the agenda was not adopted by the House by 19 votes to 115, with three abstentions. The Group of Mi Hazank also proposed that the draft agenda of the Parliament's meeting starting today be amended as T/4026 on the employment of migrant workers in Hungary. The general debate on the legislative proposal No 1 shall take place on Wednesday as the first item on the agenda instead of the last item on the agenda. I would like to announce that Mr László Toroczkai, the leader of the group, has repeatedly initiated the use of a ballot counting machine. In view of this, we will vote in this way. I ask this House to make a decision. [[Vote.]] I note that the House did not adopt the proposal to amend the agenda by 20 votes to one, 115 votes to one, with three abstentions. I declare that the DK Group has proposed to supplement the agenda proposal, which is proposed in the House Rule 15 of the Decision. I refused pursuant to paragraph 4a of Section 4a, given that it is not subject to Article 15. It has been submitted in accordance with paragraph 4 of Section 4. The proposer of the rejected proposal initiated the repeal of the President's decision. The Parliament would decide on this without discussion, but Mr Ferenc Gyurcsány Group leader initiated a repetition of the vote using a ballot counting machine. In view of this, without a raise-up vote, we will decide by using a ballot counting machine. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the scope of the OE-42/342-1/2023. President's decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has maintained the President's decision by 123 votes in favour, 43 votes against and no abstentions. I declare that the MSZP Group has proposed to supplement the agenda proposal, which is proposed in the House Rule 15. I refused pursuant to paragraph 4a of Section 4a, given that it is not subject to Article 15. It has been submitted in accordance with paragraph 4 of Section 4. The proposer of the rejected proposal initiated the repeal of the President's decision and the use of a ballot counting machine. In accordance with the motion, I am now asking the Honourable Parliament to maintain the scope of the OE-42/346-1/2023. President's decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has maintained the President's decision by 123 votes in favour, 43 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, In the absence of a committee agreement, on the basis of the motion tabled by the President, we are now deciding on the Commission's discussion and decision-making. I ask the Honourable Parliament to call on the designated Economic Committee, B/3758. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the House has asked the Economic Committee to take its decision by 116 votes in favour, 49 votes against and no abstentions. [[15.00]] Dear House, At 2:59 p.m., after a few minutes of technical break, we will now proceed to the discussion of interpellations. Once again, I would ask my fellow Members to leave the Chamber quickly and quietly if they have any other work to do. [[Several Members leave the Chamber.]] (Recess: 15.00-15.02) President: Mr Sándor Lezsák Note: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Szűcs)
u2023-05-22-49	I salute my fellow Members. Please allow us to continue our work. The interpellations are coming up. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Economic Development. It's an address. Mr Zoltán Varga has the floor.
u2023-05-22-50	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In recent times, we have a lot to talk about inflation, inflation in Orbán, because that is what will slowly destroy the country. For more than a year, we have been saying from month to month that prices have risen again, Hungarian people are once again more difficult to buy and earn a living, and more and more people are going to have to be deprived in the country again. I and my fellow Members have confronted you many times. With the price going up in vain, with the drop in wages, with more and more people living worse and worse, you could only afford to take false measures, to have action in the shops. As if there had been no action so far, I beg you, as if there had not been an increase in food prices due to inflation in Orbán to such an extent that they were already on sale multiple times as they were two years ago. Of course, you obviously have no idea what this means; you don't know what it means to have a child who goes to bed hungry at night because the family can't give him dinner properly. They have no idea what it's like to buy a trappist cheese only on festive occasions; what it's like to put bread and butter in a basket in the store, because who knows what price they'll meet at the cashier. They have no idea, because they've stolen just enough to make you not care. According to new data, even in March, the increase in the number of products has accelerated, which is what we call inflation, and even analysts are surprised. Analysts also said that there is no such level of inflation in Orbán in Europe. The price of most products has more than doubled over the last two years, including, of course, bread, butter, trapping cheese, dairy products, but hold on, Mr. Secretary of State, even spaghetti. Mr. Secretary. We're talking about the 21st. In Hungary, buttered bread is now a luxury because of you. But unfortunately, there are other news for March. For example, besides basic foods, candy and soft drinks have also been reached by inflation in Orbán. But TV subscriptions, telephones and the Internet are expensive, so there is no corner of life in Hungary that you wouldn't have made priceless. And for God's sake, don't point fingers at anyone else, because it's your boss, Viktor Orbán. Orbán is the only one responsible for inflation in Orbán! Because of Orbán, you're the reason we're making things worse. All over Europe, we have the highest levels of inflation, increased prices, and even war-torn Ukraine. And in view of your destruction, it is obvious that the question arises: have you really lost all control so much that you are unable to find a solution to either inflation in Orbán or the livelihood crisis? I'm asking. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] , Secretary of State: how much more food has to cost to intervene...
u2023-05-22-51	Thank you very much. [[It's ringing again.]]
u2023-05-22-52	...and curb inflation in Orbán? How long will the Hungarian people be left to be poor?
u2023-05-22-53	Thank you, Congressman Varga.
u2023-05-22-54	What are you waiting for? Answer that. Thank you. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-05-22-55	The answer to Minister János Fónagy's question will be given by Secretary of State.
u2023-05-22-56	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Allow me to declare a result before replying. You have fulfilled your party mission to pronounce the name Orbán as often as possible. Congratulations. [[Gergely Arató: The Member spoke of inflation in Orbán!]] So far, you're number one. [[Towards Gergely Harvesto:]] You're the second. I suppose, in the midst of their Orbán phobia, you have also learned that the economic crisis caused by war and sanctions in Brussels [[Defiance in DK's ranks.]] has brought inflation and crisis across Europe. If you insist on the family name mentioned earlier: 2008-2009, when you were handling the crisis [[Towards Gergely Harvesto:]] and you, former Secretary of State, have become insolvent in Hungary, and the Orbán government has pulled the country out of the ravine. The unemployment of more than 13 percent was reduced by the Orbán governments to below 4 percent, and the registered job seeker number of 600-700 thousand people was reduced to one third by the Orbán governments. In 2023, in addition to the dangers caused by the war, inflation also had to be combated. I'm forced to correct you: inflation doesn't decrease, we reduce it. We're on the right track. As indicated in advance at the beginning of the year, inflation peaked in January, and after the turn of the trend in February, the decline started. Numbers show that the improvement is moderate, but continuous and trendy. It can be concluded that inflation due to war and harmful sanctions has taken away the possibility of a more dynamic increase in real earnings. Due to sanctioned inflation, the real value of Hungarian payments would have been reduced if the government had not protected the premium until the average consumption, if there was no interest rate stop and no food price stop. Targeted measures have helped to protect wage purchasing power. Although the fight against inflation is primarily a central bank task, the government has also actively intervened and intervened. So far, we have decided on more than 20 measures to curb prices and protect the economy. In order to further reduce food prices and increase competition in retail trade, the government imposed mandatory action on retail shops. We accepted the competition proposal of the President of the Economic Competition Authority and decided to introduce an online price monitoring database. The mandatory action was provided for the period from 1 June to 30 September 2023 for traders with a net turnover of more than HUF 1 billion in 2021. Twenty categories of products subject to action are defined. At least one product per product category in the discount period shall be offered at a price not less than 10 per cent lower than the lowest gross retail price in the last 30 days. We expect the price monitoring system to provide data to traders if their net turnover exceeds HUF 100 billion. [[15.10]] The online database will initially be determined by food prices in more than 60 product categories. The Orbán government is also doing everything in its power to protect families, pensioners, full employment and the reduction in the costs of saving HUF 181 thousand. Thank you for your attention, Congressman.
u2023-05-22-57	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask the congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2023-05-22-58	Thank you, Mr. President. I won't accept it for any more reason. First of all, Mr. Secretary, let me give you a quick answer. You pointed out to me that I took Orbán's name too many times, just like you. I must reassure you that soon, in a few months' time, Orbán will also be erased from the history books, only a grey, black stain will be on the historical pages of Hungary. Mr. Secretary, you're simply not telling the truth. Saying Debrecen, if he was in Debrecen, they'd say it's scratched, put on something new. We've been listening to the same answer month after month, year after year. You're an honest-to-be white gentleman whose mouth sounds particularly wrong with these lying sentences. You're simply lying, Mr. Secretary. Inflation and inflation in Orbán are two and a half times the EU average. Real earnings decreased by 20 percent in February alone. Secretary of State, what are you talking about? ! So you're simply lying, and it looks bad on you. Please don't do this anymore, because you're ruining your reputation. Thank you very much.
u2023-05-22-59	Thank you very much, Congressman Varga, who did not accept the answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Imre Komjáthi, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance:. Will you help the Hungarian families, or will you allow the number of the needy, the hungry to rise further? Does the government support the MSZP rescue package? It's an address. Congressman Imre Komjathi has the floor.
u2023-05-22-60	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, This summer again, the government wants the budget adopted for next year. We have already said several times that in this form it can only be a fictitious budget, as countless data are not yet known for next year that can fundamentally change the main figures of the budget. We remember that this year's budget was rewritten by a December decree, and six months after the adoption, it became completely unsustainable, and then brought to Parliament, and they managed to accept it on the day of the fools. In normal democracies, the budget will be presented in October, around November, but more importantly, what is happening now, as this year's budget does not settle many issues. The cost of living is skyrocketed, the average inflation is over 20 percent in the ninth month. But for food, that's more than twice the number, more than the number. Hungary and the Hungarian people are hit by inflation in Orbán, which is the result of the government's failed economic policy. In all of Europe, inflation has been highest in Hungary for months, and brutally expensive has resulted in the middle class slipping down, unfortunately we can include teachers and small entrepreneurs. Today, hundreds of thousands of pensioners in our country cannot afford the basic food they need for everyday life. This is why the MSZP has drawn up a program called "The Rescue Package for Households," which consists of a five-point package of proposals. 1. Tax stop! Our proposal is to reduce the 27 percent VAT on basic foods to zero and to abolish the retail tax on the summer. 2. Give me a stop. According to the MSZP, the current food prices should be maintained until the government is willing to change its tax policy and reduce the VAT on basic foods to zero. 3. Everybody eat! The purpose of the rescue package for households is to help the most needy, so we initiate the introduction of the food bank card, which would give the 300,000 families in the worst situation a subsidy of 20 thousand forints. 4. Fair pensions! From June onwards, pensions should be raised by 5% so that pensioners can buy what they have already been able to buy. 5. Support for convenience stores so that they can get public-price products everywhere. For all these reasons, I ask that the government is willing to follow the proposals of the MSZP. Will pensions be increased by at least 5% in the summer? Will you reduce the VAT on basic foods, introduce a food bank card to support the poorest? Do you give support to the convenience stores? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2023-05-22-61	Thank you very much, Congressman Komjathi. On behalf of Minister, I give the floor to Deputy Minister András Tállai.
u2023-05-22-62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The adoption of the budget in spring has been the case since 2015, and there is no problem with that, and this will make the government's financial, budgetary and economic policy measures more predictable for economic operators. But you, I don't know, you're wrong, because the budget amendment was adopted on March 31, I don't know if that's the day of the fools, but what's the problem with that anyway? So you have factual errors in your speech, which is not significant, but you are wrong. I would like to respond to the rescue package of the MSZP, because I believe that part of it has been taken over from government measures, such as price-stop support. We would like to thank you for your support for the fact that the Hungarian Government has been able to introduce a price maximized to a number of goods. Otherwise, this will be maintained until inflation is significantly reduced. We also supported and even implemented the support of the grocery stores, as in December we launched a tender to support the convenience stores, and a total of 2806 village shops won the tender. As far as pensions are concerned, I think that the current government has nothing to be ashamed of in this regard, because from 2010, what we promised to keep the value of pensions, we have fulfilled it. We have also completed last year, when there has been a very difficult economic situation, an economic environment, and we will also meet this year, when we raised pensions by 15 percent on 1 January, and, if necessary, in the course of the year, we will, of course, go backwards under the law and, of course, raise pensions and fulfill our promise. As far as your debt top proposal is concerned, it is much more interesting, because when the government tells us to introduce VAT on 80 products, and there are basic foods in this, milk, eggs, pork, poultrymeat, eating butter, you do not support it. Now, when, I don't know, it's harder, or you guys aren't politically so supportive, then you come up with a debt top. Well, this is what the government has done in terms of its tax policy not only in terms of reducing VAT on basic foodstuffs, but if it examines the level of personal income tax, one of the lowest levels in Europe, or the rate of corporation tax, is also the lowest in Europe, then I think that the government's tax policy is more to be supported than criticised. Honourable Congressman, The economic environment is difficult, the situation is difficult, inflation is high, the government has taken twenty measures for economic operators and families to make this high inflation and price rise bearable. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-22-63	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Tallai. I'll ask Congressman Imre Komjathi to accept the Secretary of State's answer. [[15.20]]
u2023-05-22-64	I do not accept the answer, Mr Secretary, I see that it is far more difficult to give an honest answer to an interpellation than to offer food marchers with schnapps. I think that you will continue to be the shoes of political life, the deception you're doing: lying money into people's pockets, only when people reach into their pockets, you won't find the means to make a living there. What I see is that what they give with one hand, the little they take back on the other side, and much more. They take it back, for example, through inflation, they take it back through VAT, you profit from VAT, you profit from the crisis, which is why we cannot accept and I cannot accept this answer. The MSZP does not make it dependent on its political support to speak in Parliament for ordinary people, for the people who take this country on their backs who run this country. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2023-05-22-65	Thank you very much, Congressman Komjathi, for not accepting the answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade. It's an address. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has the floor.
u2023-05-22-66	Mr President, Dear House, According to statistical data, the number of migrant workers arriving in our country has increased dramatically, and at the same time we do not see the number of Hungarians migrated from forced to abroad decreasing by magnitude. Let us be fair, there is no complete overlap between the jobs of a guest worker and the emigrated Hungarians in Western Europe, but at least in terms of physical jobs, it would be expected to attract those who could find their calculation in this country, in their homeland, along with a public and government strategy for normal wages, and this could largely replace at least part of the organised imports of guest workers. There are very amazing articles and news reports coming up that have recently increased the number of people from Vietnam, Mongolia, the Philippines, among migrant workers to the greatest extent, and Indonesia has also caught up with it and has opened up the imaginary gates to me in Brazil and Colombia, as well as to Colombia, for reasons I still do not understand. We see, therefore, that, although I believe that there should be a consensus in this House, there are still large numbers of people who may be at risk for the wages of Hungarians if we do not put the appropriate guarantee rules on the table now. The community of Jobbik-Conservatives is absolutely determined to be integrated into the system, let us write down that the current guest worker regulations include that no one who arrives from the third world can receive a salary of a magnitude lower than the Hungarians working here, because this will trigger a process which will again only be claimed by the Hungarian worker, because they will either be forced into difficult working conditions or in the long term will be reduced by wages, which can still have disastrous consequences in one of the lowest wage levels in Europe. So this is a specific question, Mr Secretary of State: is it open to record that the arrivals cannot break the wages of Hungarians? Furthermore, we are very pleased with the model, which is an existing model, which asks that the employer not only proves that he was looking for a labour force at home, but that he could not find it, but also confirms that there were no Hungarian domestic workers in his own circle who could have been retrained. Obviously, we should think of free re-training here, but now we have to put the guarantee rules on the table, because we fear that if the import of migrant workers is organised, it will be difficult to slow down and reverse emigration, the wages of Hungarians will be broken, which cannot be in anyone's interest; they will force our employees into working conditions that are unworthy in a European country, and in this respect only Europe can be our security. Therefore, I expect concrete answers to two specific professional and otherwise constructive questions from you. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2023-05-22-67	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. I give the floor to Mr Tamás Menczer, Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs.
u2023-05-22-68	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Honourable Congressman, If I understand your words correctly, we agree on the importance of the workplace. We used to say that when there's work, there's everything. In this connection, let me remind you that unemployment in Hungary was 11-12 percent in 2010, so many people, many families, had no income, no livelihood, no sure vision, so unemployment was a huge problem in 2010. Here in parentheses let me add that if the job is important, as you say, and the wages and wages are important, we agree on this, then we are surprised and regretted that Jobbik joined the left-wing coalition led by Ferenc Gyurcsány, the Ferenc Gyurcsány who brought together this state failure and this huge unemployment in this country, by the way. That is why the government's strategic goal was to create jobs. This task has been carried out, some more than 4.7 million people are working in Hungary today, this is one million more than the 2010 data, since the change of regime has never worked so hard. It is also important to point out that, during the coronal virus and now during the war, our aim is to preserve and, if possible, create new jobs, so we cannot support the otherwise frequently emerging left-wing proposal to finance unemployment, to fund the preservation of jobs and, if possible, to create new ones, and I say once again, to ensure that 4.7 million people are currently working in Hungary during a war after Covid. For wages: last year was the tenth year when real wages in Hungary continuously increased. In addition to the difficult economic situation last year, real wages rose by 2.6 percent compared to 2010, and if we add the family support system and family support to this, real wages increased by 77 percent. We're not at the finish line, of course, no one's talking about it, but the steps are undeniable. This is based on the fact that last year's economic growth was 4.6 percent, and one year earlier 7.1 percent, these figures are outstanding in European terms and in Hungarian comparisons, as well as in previous years. Investments are still necessary for maintaining economic growth in the future, but we have said on the subject that there is still a regional reserve, there is also a reserve outside, and only by exhausting these reserves can we get them to work here from other countries under regulated conditions, legally and for a limited period of time, of course, while maintaining that if there is any problem on the move, they can be sent home on the go. I've already mentioned a few things about wages. The line of thought you mentioned about someone knocking down wages here may seem logical at first, but I see it differently. It seems to me that there is a competition for labour in Hungary today, and if the conditions are not right somewhere, then just as I have referred to, and sometimes even the opposition raises the shortage of labour, which is a good problem, unlike unemployment, it is a problem, a challenge, an answer has to be given, but it is much better than unemployment. So today there is competition for labour in Hungary. As regards those who work abroad, let me note that the statistics are clear, in recent years more people have come home than the ones who left our country. This is also typical of the physical sector, but there was also an economic service centre where recruited workers came home from England, for example. That's about all I have to say for myself, and I'm asking you to accept it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-22-69	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Tamás Menczer. I will ask Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa to accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2023-05-22-70	Mr President, Dear House, Mr Secretary of State, an ex-FX-credited person who can repay his paid-off loan from a higher salary in a slaughterhouse in Benelux states, does not always rip up the wires and terminate his citizenship, so in terms of migration balance, very many people are forced to work in the West to work in their country of birth. You saddened me because I asked you two specific questions, you didn't answer any of them, so I can't accept your answer, because the thing is, if what you said was true, then my two requests and my demands couldn't come up with any problems. If the arrivals don't break the wages, why don't they write in their law that they can't get a lower wage than the Hungarians? If you're looking for the Hungarians in the first concentric circles, why don't you write in the regulation that the employer has to prove that he couldn't even retrain the Hungarian workforce and then invite anyone else? So if what you have said is true, then our two demands will be included in this package, but I am more afraid that they do not have an alternative plan, that they would build the Hungarian economy on organised imports of migrant workers who break wages, which is unacceptable to us, the conservative community. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[15.30]]
u2023-05-22-71	Thank you very much. Congressman, you didn't accept the answer. I would like to inform you that a decision will be taken in accordance with our agreed agenda on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, President Novak, representative of Mi Hazank, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice:. How long can Facebook be arbitrary, or can a restaurant owner indicate that Gypsies cannot enter? It's an address. Congressman Novak has the floor.
u2023-05-22-72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Hetek's Facebook page is now being banned by Zuckerberg because an innocent MTI news was published a year ago, including the name of László Toroczkai. The News Portal is punished by a reduced display number on Facebook, as in the past the Index, also because of the mention of the President of Mi Hungary. Everyone knows how arbitrary, without justification and redress, and often without the indication of a specific, criminalized entry, Facebook is imposing sanctions, even by unscheduled deletion of the previous full gallery and other data and contacts of users. Anybody can get hit by Facebook's courthouse at any time. However, the Hungarian government has done nothing, even made a pact with Facebook and other multinational companies; they have extended their exemption from advertising tax for another year. This is four-and-a-half years' exemption, zero-percent tax rate, while Hungarian people are being hit with almost world record VAT. This year we could have expected HUF 15 billion in revenue from the advertising tax, according to government estimates. I have been calling for the introduction of the ad tax as a Member of Parliament since my election in 2010, but I have managed to get it on paper, because Facebook has not had to pay since July 2019 and Google has never paid. Why and for how long? Facebook was the first to block the most read right-wing news portal, Kuruc.info in 2013, and in the 2019 EP election campaign, let alone delete the top page of László Toroczkai with 207 thousand followers, but since then our party leader and leader's name and initials are not allowed to be written, even with a title, and even if his face is visible during my speech, my video will be blocked by Facebook. Sometimes I wish he'd rather sit next to Gyurcsány, but we're not the Jobbik to tolerate in our ranks the lunatic, crowd-shot, liar, who was replaced by his own prime minister. The New Speaker language of Facebook's Orwell world does not allow many of our programme points to be mentioned in the spirit of sick polcivity, from segregation, to the fight against Gypsy crime, until the LGBTQP marches are banned. In fact, he is trying to silence everything we have to say: in 2020 he was almost turned to zero to reach my Facebook page, even though he has 140,000 followers. Then several times they deleted the Facebook page of the Hungarian Movement for you, which was an unprecedented and unlawful intervention in the elections. It went on in the same way, and there is still a bit of silence in the media for the likes of us. The approach that private Facebook bans whoever it wants from its surface is wrong, because with that kind of power a restaurant or disco owner could write it out, say, would require that the Gypsies should not enter! It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. The government, in the spirit of double standards, is disturbed by the latter. Why isn't the government acting against Facebook's autism? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-05-22-73	Thank you very much, Congressman President Novak. I give the floor to Mr Répássy Róbert, State Secretary.
u2023-05-22-74	Thank you for the floor. Honourable Congressman, I'm a little uncertain what he meant by that metaphor that he compared Mi Hazam to Gypsies. That wasn't entirely clear to me. Anyway, if you don't mind, I'd rather talk about what's in the government's jurisdiction. The government doesn't have the authority to let you back on Facebook or not. This is outside the government's jurisdiction. On the other hand, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the European Union adopted its regulation on digital services, in short: the DSA Regulation, on 16 November 2022. It was essential for Hungary that digital services, as well as their offline counterparts, operate transparently, accountablely and respecting fundamental rights, in particular freedom of expression. That is why we welcome the entry into force of this new regulation, namely the amendment of the regulation. It entered into force on 16 November 2022, but will become fully applicable until 17 February 2024. Well, what's this regulation about? It establishes a legal framework for combating illegal content, in particular a clear and detailed obligation to justify all content removals or the visibility of content, for a service provider's decision to restrict access, addressed to the service user. The new rules also provide for a clear and clear indication of the contract terms of the platforms in which the fundamental rights of users are guaranteed. It is linked to appropriate remedies that the legislation obliges service providers to ensure the possibility of an internal complaint management system and out-of-court dispute resolution, and complements the possibility to challenge the decisions of service providers with the possibility of judicial redress. Finally, service providers may suspend user accounts only for a reasonable period of time and after prior warning in order to protect against abuse. Honourable Congressman, Providers who do not have a registered office in the European Union but offer services there should appoint a legal representative in one Member State. In addition, the Regulation obliges service providers to designate a contact point and to designate a contact point for communication with users. So, honourable Member, for once I must say that the regulation of the European Union, which is important in this respect, is because we are facing a global service here, after all, as a step forward. I would add that it is not primarily intended to facilitate, in the first place,,, say, offensive bans or grievances with this Regulation, but to remove illegal content, but at least to put it within an appropriate legal framework. The task for Hungary is to designate the authorities who will implement this regulation, as I said, by 17 February 2024 at the latest. Please accept my answer. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-22-75	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Répássy Róbert. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2023-05-22-76	Mr. Secretary. A round of applause in the ranks of the governing parties, and I cannot accept its answer, because it would be a government task to ensure freedom of the press, for example. Pointing to the European Union to resolve this is unacceptable. Not in an EU Member State, but in Hungary, for example, Facebook should be a legal representative so that László Toroczkai is not the only one who can sue it successfully, but any Hungarian citizen should have the opportunity to remedy this amazing overpower. The Weeks page is now subject to reduced display numbers and other restrictions due to a news report from the state news agency. Why is it only bothering you if, for example, Judit Varga's Facebook page is rolled down? After a pact has been made with them, there is no need to pay advertising tax on Facebook and the good Minister's side is no longer restricted. But the rest doesn't matter? Mr. Secretary. The arbitrary sanctions of Facebook, without justification and remedy, would no longer be tolerated by the Our Country Movement. Let's not wait until we get to the government. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-05-22-77	Thank you very much, Mr President Novák, who has not accepted the answer, so I would like to inform the honourable House that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Before I go on, and not just because of the record, I ask you with great respect, Mr President Novak, to avoid the conflict field in the future to say the term "Gypsy Crime" in the future. Thank you very much for listening. [[Mr. President said it too!]] Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade:. What is the government hiding about the amendment of the Paks enlargement treaty? It's an address. Congressman Bence of Turdai has the floor. [[15.40]]
u2023-05-22-78	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. The Fidesz government recently amended the Paks expansion agreement with the Russians. The contract originally signed in January 2014 was in sin, as Viktor Orbán denied even before the journey to Moscow about the nuclear power plant. The continuation corresponded to this lie-based start: it is 2023 now, it has been nine years, and no cutting of the hoof has taken place in order to build the actual reactors, although you have already successfully applauded about 300 billion forints. The main reason for the delay is that Rosatom is unable to submit a plan documentation that would be acceptable in Europe. This was not just the case for us, but also for Finland, where the Russian company also tried this type of reactor. The Finns drew the only possible conclusion: with reference to non-performance and force majeure, they terminated the contract with the incompetent Rosatom. However, the Orbán government, which is committed or perhaps rather subordinate to the Putin system, continues to spur the dead horse, and you are trying to keep the semi-military nuclear conglomerate of the Russian terror state, which is fighting a robbery war in Europe, Ukraine, here in our neighbourhood, at times threatening the continent with a nuclear strike, somehow in this obviously doomed expansion construct. The routine goes on and on with the illegal secrecy and the lies. I say that it is illegal, because, following the persistent legal struggles of Mr Benedek, former MEP of the Dialogues-Greens, the court has finally stated that the contract system detailing the enlargement project must be made public. There is no world law in the EU, at least certainly not, which does not apply to the content of an amended contract. After the European Commission has stated earlier that the planned investment is made out of public money, i.e. public funding, all the details of this are for Hungarian taxpayers. I therefore call on the Secretary of State to explain the changes in the content of the Treaty and to make the amended text public. If they have nothing to hide, they should act legally. And if you're ashamed of what you've done to the Russians, follow the Finnish example and cancel the nuclear pact with my Rosata in Putin. I'm curious to know which way you're going to go, we're going to stand up to the truth, you're going to make a treaty amendment public, or you're finally going to let go of this terrible enlargement treaty with Putin's Rosatom. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-05-22-79	Thank you very much, Congressman Bence of Tordai. Tamás Menczer, State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, will answer the Member's question.
u2023-05-22-80	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, If you want to know what we have the guts to do, then I will gather all my courage and try to answer you. It's clear from what you've said that you don't want the Paks project, you don't want Paks II. I find this regrettable, because my conviction and more importantly, based on numbers and facts, is nuclear energy, so it is Paks II. The project has a Hungarian interest in energy security and environmental protection as well. With regard to energy security, because the current situation, the war and the resulting energy crisis show that the country that is able to produce its own energy consumption and energy covering it is more secure than possible. Now, Paks I., the Paks Nuclear Power Plant in operation produces half of the Hungarian electricity production, one third of the Hungarian consumption. This shows the importance of Paks I. And if we add Hungary's growing energy demand, then it is clear that Paks II. We can't take care of the country without it. In addition, nuclear energy means cheap, safe and predictable energy. When we see how gas and oil prices change, how they rise explosively from one moment to the next, we can say and it is important to say that nuclear energy does not stop, with nuclear energy this price change and price increases can be greatly avoided. Now, about environmental protection, Paks I. 14 million tonnes of CO2 are avoided annually; Paks II. It will avoid emissions of 17 million tonnes of CO2 and avoid the use of 3 to 3.5 billion cubic metres of gas. So it's public -- it's clear and it's public -- and I'll get to that -- he also mentioned how important the nuclear power plant is from an environmental point of view. You mentioned the public. Honourable Congressman, Let us remember together that the decisions on the Paks project were taken by the Parliament, adopted and adopted in Parliament. As regards this amendment, I can tell you that you should not have any doubts about the publicity for a minute, because (a) your friends in Brussels, where this is now approved, will put it on your desk in a moment, so you will see, (b) after the approval in Brussels, the amendment will also be made public, which is otherwise justified by the war, the sanctioning environment and the nine years that have passed and the technological changes in it. Now, in addition to all this, let me say that, by the way, what you have said here has brought all sorts of accusations, I would be sympathetic to that, since you have recently been run over by Secretary of State, Mr. Csaba Dömötör, who has been singing this, and this man can be confused by the left-wing press. I understand that, and I understand that. What I cannot understand is the political work of you and your party, which is always directed against the interests of Hungary. You call yourselves greens in this regard, let me say that you are most like a leech party, since you have never scaled yourself in an election, such as you do not run on. Even the leech is part of the environment, so you can be green in that sense. What doesn't bother me is that they're living on the left body, but they're doing it on the body of the country. In connection with the war, let me also bring what you have said to me:. As all decent countries send weapons to Ukraine, Hungary should too. You therefore consider the Hungarian people who do not want to send weapons and do not want to go to war to be unfair. Just like your boss, Ferenc Gyurcsány, who said that anyone who doesn't want to die for Ukraine is a lousy person. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] You always act against the Hungarian interest [[The president's ringing again.]] And on the contrary, we will act, whether you like it or not. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-22-81	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Tamás Menczer. I'll ask Congressman Tordai to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2023-05-22-82	I ignore the last minute of Mr. Secretary's reply because it was a very weak provocation. However, we agree that energy security is a key issue. Now, you failed in this: in 2022, 40 percent of the Hungarian electricity demand was obtained from imports. So you failed to ensure Hungary's electricity demand. And the bad news is, building a nuclear power plant is the slowest story. The fact that nothing's happened for nine years is fine, but nothing will happen for the next nine years, especially not with my Rosata. So if we're supposed to expect Paks II. It produces the energy that wouldn't be needed if Chinese battery companies weren't brought here in this amount... so it's a complete mistake. Nuclear energy is not cheap, it is unsafe and it is not environmentally friendly; what is green is sustainable is also cheap. That is why we handed over the Green Hungary Energy Roadmap prepared by Jávor Benedek and his colleagues to Attila Steiner, your State Secretary. It's being studied, and it turns out that without nuclear energy, it's based on renewables. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] how to move to a zero-emission economy. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President.
u2023-05-22-83	Thank you very much. Congressman Torda refused to accept the answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Máté Kanász-Nagy, a representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Energy:, Why don't you stop it instead? It's an address. At the request of Prime Minister Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, who is competent and competent on the subject, Tamás Menczer, State Secretary will respond to the interpellation. You have the floor, Congressman Máté Kanász-Nagy.
u2023-05-22-84	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Despite the public protests, despite the incredible pollution, the government continues its plan as a loose ship cannon to turn Hungary into a battery ring. Minister of Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó recently announced in Debrecen that next to the already licensed battery plant the city will receive another one. According to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the manufacturer arrived at the request of BMW. He said that the Minister emphasized the request of BMW, because, as Minister János Lázár put it, I quote him: "Hungary will not be a great battery power sitting in the ministry and slamming on its forehead, but Audi, BMW and Mercedes say that this capacity is needed in addition to the car factories. Therefore, a multinational corporate order has been received again. [[15.50]] Last time I was here, I was arguing with the Prime Minister in Parliament, who said that people in these battery companies are better off earning money. It claimed that the average salary of battery-producing workers exceeds the salary of workers in the manufacturing industry by 60%. On the one hand, 60 percent is a rather strong exaggeration, and on the other hand, the exploitation of workers also shows that these multinationals are supposed to offer workers a better standard of living, but if we only use basic salaries, then working in battery factories cannot ensure a decent living. For this to happen, it takes three shifts, 12-hour shifts, overtime, presence bonuses, night work. In addition, working with rented guest workers in this sector is particularly fashionable, and this is also the domestic trend in battery factories that are currently being built. In spite of the Prime Minister's statement that there is a government decision on the first issue of hiring Hungarian workers, experience has shown that this government decision is worth a piece of cheese paper, while we know what enormous environmental pollution these battery factories have: their water consumption corresponds to the water consumption of a medium-sized city while producing the same amount of sewage. According to the most modest estimates, Hungary's energy needs will increase by 30 percent due to the building of battery companies by 2030, in a country where we have to import 90 percent of gas, 30 percent of electricity. The question arises on the basis of this: why not leave the negotiations to Minister János Lázár, who already has a clear task within the government to stop large investments? I think this is what we need, and we need John Lazarus, so I'm sure our country will be better off. Where is John Lazarus? Thank you very much for the floor. [[Defiance. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-22-85	Thank you very much, Congressman Máté Kanász-Nagy. I give the floor to Mr Tamás Menczer, Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs. [[John Lazarus: Go for it, Thomas! Let's go!]]
u2023-05-22-86	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Let me help you with the simplest thing: [[Pointing to John Lazarus:]] There he is. He did not think that I could help you so quickly and simply, but Minister Lazarus is here in the Chamber. The problem is that the questioning of the other topics and questions is about as thorough, prudent and reasonable. Now, with regard to electric cars, battery companies, e-mobility, against which you are here every week, let me say that perseverance is a respectable virtue; but a small problem if endurance is coupled with always talking nonsense. Let me quote your colleagues. Erzsébet Schmuck:. Electric driving is unstoppable and is expected to represent 20-25 percent of global car sales in ten years. What are we gonna do about it? We lock ourselves in the structure of the past....says Erzsébet Schmuck. You're wrong about the fact that it's not going to be 20-25 percent of electric cars, it's going to be a lot more. Péter Ungár:. The real reduction would be if the state spent more money to increase electromobility. Let me ask you with respect, Congressman, are you not speaking to each other or are you misunderstanding, or are you forgetting what your partner has said before, or does it not matter at all? Speaking of customers, your customers, as you know, have them, so they're paying you, they've confessed. Ask your Prime Minister's candidate how he confessed how you were being paid. Now, let me add that you said you were arguing with the Prime Minister. Well, how can I say it... it's a noble virtue to be modest, but I wouldn't call it a debate. When you talk to the Prime Minister, it's like a professional boxer fighting a weak amateur. Under these circumstances, a weak breeze will take you out of the ring. In terms of environmental protection, you also define yourselves as some kind of green environmentalist party, I understand. Now, the thing is, honourable Member, that without electromobility, we cannot create an environmental turnaround, because the transport sector is responsible for 14-15-20 percent of emissions, and we cannot change the transport sector from emissions without electromobility, without electric cars, and for electric cars, I say something surprising. electric battery required. Even Congressman Black-Győr knows that, right, he used to put the electric scooter in the shower. The significance of the Hungarian national economy, which we have said many times, but it does not bother us to say it again from Secretary Koncz: hundreds of thousands of families live from the automotive industry; they work there and receive income from it. The automotive industry is an excellent meeting point for Western technology and Eastern technology, an excellent example of which is BMW, Audi, Mercedes. Besides Germany and China, we are the third such country. They have already made the decision that your principle friends in Brussels have made that environmentally friendly cars can be manufactured after 2035. They have made this industrial decision and are going to reshape the automotive industry. It's not a question of battery companies being built, it's just a question of where. The Hungarian interest is that they are built here, that we can preserve jobs, that we can maintain economic growth, that we have 13 months' pensions, family support, tax breaks for young people, and that could be classified for a long time. So, with respect, I ask you to try to act in accordance with the Hungarian interest once and to stop your attitude towards the Hungarian interest. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-22-87	Thank you, Secretary of State, Tamás Menczer. I will ask Congressman Matthew Kanász-Nagy to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2023-05-22-88	Thank you for the floor. I can't accept the answer. The problem here is that the Prime Minister, when he goes into the ring, may be trying to release very serious right-wing or left-hand hooks against the Hungarian opposition. [[Defiance. Tamás Menczer: The election does not show that!]] At the same time, when it comes to battery companies, these left-wings and right-hand hooks, these uppercuts are obviously missing in a political sense, and they immediately throw the towel into the ring and lie in the will of BMW, Audi and Mercedes. This is something Minister János Lázár, who is really here in the Chamber and I welcome him, said very plasticly. Well, that's exactly the mistake. It seems to me that there is a boxer, a politician on his feet, this is János Lázár, he is needed in the fight against the battery factory. As Commissioner for Shutdown, Minister for Shutdown, I think you could stop this process. I look forward to John Lazarus' involvement in this too. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition ranks. Tamás Menczer: He must be interpelled next time!]]
u2023-05-22-89	Thank you very much, Mr Máté Kanász-Nagy, who did not accept the answer. Therefore, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Attila Barcza, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Energy: It's an address. Congressman Attila Barcza has the floor.
u2023-05-22-90	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In Hungary, in view of the prolonged war and the penalty energy crisis, the government protects the Hungarian families throughout Europe with a uniquely maintained reduction of the overhead to the average consumption. The war and sanctions in Brussels also led to drastic price increases in the international energy market last year, resulting in an increase in Hungary's energy bill from 2021 to 2022 of some HUF 4000 billion. Despite the booming cost increase, the government maintained the prices reduced to the average consumption, resulting in a family saving HUF 181 thousand per month and the price of electricity for micro-enterprises dropped from HUF 165 to HUF 70 per kilowatt. We can say this: in the universal service of natural gas, about 80 percent of consumption places and almost 75 percent of power supply have remained under the limit of the band. [[16.00]] Eurostat's recent transmission confirms that the average price of domestic gas and electricity was the lowest in Hungary in the second half of 2022. Efficient use not only saves costs, but also contributes substantially to reducing energy security risks. In the last month Hungary used 25.8 percent less natural gas than in the same period of the previous year; in March, the decline in electricity consumption lasted for 11 months, with a rate of 7.9 percent this time. According to the Central Statistical Office, in the first quarter of 2023 the quantity of natural gas and electricity decreased in almost the same proportion as the monthly index. Conscious consumer behaviour, government conservation measures and mild winter weather have contributed to the fact that domestic gas reservoirs are currently at 43 percent at the end of the heating season. Dear Secretary of State, Rendezvous is a system that enables Hungary to ensure its citizens that electricity and gas prices are the cheapest here until average consumption. On this basis, I ask the honourable Secretary of State how the protection of public utility helps Hungarian families and businesses. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-22-91	Thank you very much, Congressman Attila Barcza. State Secretary Zsófia Koncz will respond to the interpellation.
u2023-05-22-92	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government has maintained the protection of utilities since 2013, and I think it is a huge help to Hungarian families, and this is also true for the people living in Sopron and the region. We see, unfortunately, that the atmosphere of war continues, and we believe that it is very important to strengthen the position of peace in this matter. The sanctions policy has not proved successful, and there are virtually visible facts to this, such as the fact that Russian oil is still arriving in Europe. In April, India was the largest fuel supplier in the European Union, and India's was Russia, i.e. the sanctions did not reach their goal, but they imposed a heavy burden on Europe. We think, as I said, that, unlike the soloists of the war, peace must be strengthened; and the protection of Hungarian families and Hungarian people is very important in this case. In the framework of this, maintaining the protection of electricity is an important thing that you have mentioned in numerical terms, which we can all be proud of, that the international figures show that, according to consumption places in the European Union, the Hungarian population is paying the cheapest electricity and gas prices. To this end, we have raised the Rezségvédelmi Fund four times, to HUF 2600 billion, so that we can maintain the reduced prices, and with this we were able to help Hungarian families by HUF 181 thousand a month. But if you look further, this means that Hungarian families could save more than 2 million forints per year. I think it's a huge help for everyone. [[Bence of Turda: Where's this in the budget?]] In the case of gas, about 80 per cent of the retail consumption places and 78 per cent of the electricity remain completely below the band limit. You have also referred to the situation of businesses: we see that businesses should also be helped in the current situation. Therefore, the MVM will provide them with a tailor-made design from January onwards. On May 1, we split this year's energy charges for many corporate and institutional users, thus reducing the costs of 14,000 customers in the gas supply and 17,000 customers in the power supply. In the case of micro-enterprises, this is an even wider support, since 180 thousand micro-enterprises that are part of the universal service have been able to significantly reduce electricity charges. In their case, the price of electricity above average consumption was reduced from HUF 165 per kilowatt hour to the retail market price, i.e. HUF 70. Who does that concern? For example, small shops, hairdressers, bakeries, car servicers should spend less on electricity and gas. I think this is an important help, but we also help them with credit programmes and an extension of the interest rate stop. However, it should also be said that this is not the case everywhere. The BBC recently reported that the number of people in Britain who have difficulty in paying their bills has risen to nearly 11 million. 11 percent of the adult population did not pay their bill or repayments at least three times in the previous month. According to the British Economic Journal, The Economist, high electricity and gas prices could have claimed the lives of 68,000 people in Europe last winter because they could not heat their homes properly. That is why I think that the help and support that the Hungarian Government offers is of paramount importance to Hungarian families, and in this we thank the representative and the entire Fidesz fraction for their support so far. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-22-93	Thank you very much, Mrs Zsófia Koncz. I ask Mr Attila Barcza to accept the reply of the Secretary of State.
u2023-05-22-94	Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for the answer, first of all. I would like to highlight two things more explicitly. One is that, based on the recent international price comparison of the Hungarian Energy and Public Utility Regulatory Office, the prices of electricity and natural gas were the lowest among Member States in Hungary in March 2023, and, despite this, Hungary still spends the most on public utility support in the European Union, which, I think, is even more pronounced. I believe that the government's measures so far have provided a lifeline for Hungarian families and Hungarian businesses, and I ask that the Hungarian government continue to do everything in its power to support families and businesses. It was an excellent answer, which I accept, of course. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-22-95	Thank you very much. Mr Attila Barcza therefore accepted the answer. Dear Parliament, Béla Mihálffy, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Construction and Transport: It's an address. Congressman Béla Mihálffy has the floor.
u2023-05-22-96	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, In his February speech, Prime Minister, he announced that the government will introduce two new types of rentals for both buses and railways, which can be purchased at a very discounted price, on 1 May: the monthly leases of the county and the county. The rent of the county is within the limits of a given county, and the country rental offers unlimited travel on all inter-urban buses and non-preferential trains, on the flights of MÁV-Star, Volánbusz, MÁV-HÉV and GYSEV throughout the country. The total price of the county is 9450 HUF, and the full price of the country is only 18 900 HUF, i.e. we can travel all over the country in one month for basically two county passes. Students, preschoolers over the age of six and people with disabilities get a 90 percent discount, so they only get a HUF 945 and HUF 1890, while in case of employer fees, the employer pays 86 percent of the rent, which means that these employees can go to work at only HUF 1323 and HUF 2646 per month. The introduction of new leases is a significant cost support for both students, employees and families, since, in addition to the price being highly discounted, it is now sufficient to change the lease for a single bus and train for daily commutes and weekend trips. Those who come to study or work by public transport can save thousands of forints a month. The new county and country leases are therefore cheap, simple and unlimited. Its popularity is well demonstrated by the fact that according to the MÁV Group's announcement of 15 May, almost 304 thousand new leases have been sold since the launch of the buy-in online sale on 24 April, of which there were nearly 220,000 county leases. Based on the sales figures so far, the most popular is the discount country rent to only HUF 1890, of which some 68,000 were sold. It is no wonder that at the beginning of the month, the purchase figures exceeded the rental figures of the previous months. Dear Minister, In a few weeks, summer is coming, the main season for tourism begins, and crowds are expected to start towards coastal settlements and other popular holiday resorts. I think it will be extremely helpful for small and large families, friendly associations and individual travellers to rent a very affordable county and country during the long-awaited vacations, as well as to reach domestic destinations. [[16.10]] I therefore ask the honourable Minister how he appreciates the success of introducing country and castle leases. I look forward to your reply, Minister. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-22-97	Thank you very much, Congressman Béla Mihalffy. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2023-05-22-98	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House of Representatives, I would like to thank my colleague Béla Mihálffy, my colleague from Csongrád County, for the honour of the question. I take this opportunity to inform the Parliament about the state of play of the county lease and the country lease. Before I do this, I am very sorry that, speaking of my fellow Member, Mr Kalász-Nagy, [[Intercoms: Matthew! Máté Kanász-Nagy!]] I would have liked to have drawn attention to Mr President's patience, I would have included in my reply this one sentence in favour of my time, and at the expense of my time, Germany is led by people who are very close to the LMP on the basis of their political convictions, and for some reason have accepted the BMW's dictate that BMW does not build a battery plant in Germany. Then I'd like to ask you who the BMW is really running here: us or even the LMP allies in Germany? The answer to my fellow Member is this. I would like to start by saying that to date, nearly 350 thousand county leases and country leases have been sold. The inventor of this construction is Zsolt Hegyi and Loránd Boi, our transport specialist, who have been serving part of the MÁV for many years, partly in the Volán and partly in the government. One of them is Deputy Secretary of State, and the other one is part of company management. It is also worth knowing the names of people working in government and state companies who are able to invent such programs. The political intention is to praise Minister László Palkovics, who put him before the government first. The other issue is that it took a little more violent man to be adopted at the government meeting, who was able to produce his cover, i.e. from the cash register of the MÁV. I would like to say to my fellow Member that it is very important for young people and commuters, it is very right, because in Hungary 4.5 million people, 4.5 million people need to commute daily, largely by means of public transport. It's a huge number. That's how many people go to work, to school, to use services, or to seek a cure. 350,000 of them have now bought county and country rentals, and what is very encouraging, 70 thousand students have bought country rentals, which is expected to work even now, in the Pentecost season, on the weekend, but in June, July, August, as you asked, it really provides a significant mobility for young people because of entertainment, recreation and the use of tourist destinations in the country. Therefore, the MÁV and the Volán are prepared to provide a much larger number of services in the summer, and it is expected in much larger volumes that voters will use the students and young people at the forefront of this government decision. I would also like to draw Parliament's attention to the fact that, in recent times, we have made a number of decisions that are particularly important to our fellow citizens living in the countryside, because rural people have to commute to Budapest and our fellow rural citizens have to come to the district centre. In the areas of rural development, economic support for our fellow rural citizens, economic development and mobility, we are absolutely working to support the rural population. I would also like to say that the requirements that Parliament has set for sustainability are being met, and this has been confirmed by Greenpeace. Greenpeace cannot be accused of saying a lot of good things about the government, but last week, in a statement, they indicated that this is the most innovative thing in Europe that the Hungarian government has done with public transport. I would also like to say to the Member that we will continue to expand our cooperation in this area. We have an agreement with Zalaegerszeg County City. In Zalaegerszeg, the county lease and the country lease will be valid for local public transport as of July 1, HUF 9450 and HUF 18 900. It will be the first city, first county town, where public transport is available, and you can use this service. I urge Mr. Congressman, as a representative of Szeged County City, to convince the city leadership there to make a sacrifice on this and to encourage the leadership of the capital to try to introduce it. The question of intercity is also expected to be settled on 1 July, so it will be valid for intercity with additional tickets and the county lease will be good. I thank my fellow Members very much for their support. On behalf of the transport government, I promise that all simple, cheap and unlimited things will be available not only in the area of tickets. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-22-99	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask Congressman to accept the Minister's answer.
u2023-05-22-100	Dear Minister, Thank you for your answer. In my constituency, Csongrád-Csanád County's 2nd constituencies are also affected by the introduction of the county and country lease. Both the students of Szeged and those who commute from sandback to Szeged and the families who wish to travel from the region have huge advantages for new types of rentals. I am pleased that this great initiative will help, make life easier for people living in Szeged and in sandbacks, and I also hope that this great initiative will also be introduced in Szeged at the price of local season tickets. Your reply, Minister, I thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-22-101	Thank you very much. Mr Mihálffy therefore accepted the answer. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik... [[Zsolt Gréczy: I'm sorry, isn't it me?]] I'm sorry... Zsolt Gréczy, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Economic Development:.Recession, inflation in Orbán are becoming worse and worse with the title "Hungarians." Mr Zsolt Gréczy has the floor.
u2023-05-22-102	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, According to recent KSH data, the Hungarian economy is still in a technical recession; national income has decreased compared to the previous quarter and compared to the first quarter of last year. The Hungarian economy is in great trouble, and this is a direct consequence of inflation in Orbán. Orbán inflation also increases the price of energy, fuels, food and everything else, which is why the Hungarian economy is in a dead state today. As György Matolcsy said, the Orbán government is responsible for the economic problems and not the sanctions that Viktor Orbán has already voted for. Millions of Hungarians are living worse, only Lőrinc Mészáros and the fidesz oligarchs are not affected by inflation. For example, the world's only gasman billionaire earns more in an hour than a teacher in a month. With inflation in Orbán, the government unleashed an economic nightmare on Hungarian families. Price increases affect each other in all areas of life, while wages and pensions do not increase, so they are worth less and less; and the interest rates are skyrocketing. Nobody buys a new car, a new apartment or invests in Hungary. Investments have stopped, as the Orbán government itself announced. The Hungarian people, families, small and medium-sized enterprises are bleeding out slowly but surely, as economic data show. With the price increases, there is only one person today, the Orbán government, who will gain unprecedented VAT revenue through conscious price increases. I don't know. Fidesz congressmen usually go to the grocery store, I do. Baskets are getting emptier because people don't have money. A lot of people complain and say that last year, what was so much more expensive. According to recent statistics, a single person or a single family costs 130 thousand forints a month more than last year. This can cause extremely big problems for a family, since there is much more to be spent on day-to-day existence. A lot of people get ruined in this, and old people who can't replace their meds die of this great benefit. According to DK and the shadow government, inflation in Orbán strangles the Hungarian economy and destroys Hungarian people and families. As long as the Orbán system remains, inflation in Orbán remains, since this policy in Orbán increases prices and causes the crisis. The shadow government led by Dobrev Klára is working to break down inflation in Orbán and not to increase prices, but wages and pensions. Only a social democrat, disciplined, controlling alternative can make us a country of wage and pension increases instead of a country of price increases. Minister, Mr Secretary of State, the EU's worst GDP figure is Hungarian. They said the economy wasn't going to fall, but it fell, and instead of cutting the overhead, it's gonna be a raise. When will the inflation in Orbán be stopped bleeding the public out? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2023-05-22-103	Thank you very much, Congressman Zsolt Gréczy. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2023-05-22-104	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I'm in the market, and what's more, I went before 2010 when the left-wing crisis was dealt with. Then the country went bankrupt, and then the Orbán government pulled the country out of the ravine. The Orbán government also reduced their 11 percent unemployment to below 4 percent, and the number of jobseekers registered from 600 to 700 thousand people was reduced to one third by the Orbán governments. [[16.20]] Honourable Congressman, Economic indicators show that the negative effects of sanctions in Brussels peak in the first quarter of 2023. The decline in performance has reached its lowest point at this level, so the government's measures will allow us to see a more favourable growth process in the second quarter, and in the second half of 2023 we hope that a growth phase will begin. It is true, and we agree on this, that in 2023 we will also have to deal with inflation in addition to the dangers caused by the war, but we are on the right track. At the beginning of the year, inflation peaked in January, and after the turn of the trend in February, the decline started. The figures show that the improvement is moderate, but continuous and trendy. Due to the penalty inflation, the real value of Hungarian payments would have been reduced if the government had not protected the premium until the average consumption, if there was no interest rate stop or no food price stop. It has already been said here several times, among the walls of the House, that the currently cheapest electricity and gas prices in Europe are in Hungary as a result of these measures. Targeted measures have helped to protect wage purchasing power. The fight against inflation is primarily a central bank task, but the government has also actively intervened. We have already decided on more than 20 measures to curb prices and protect the economy. The measures put in place are working and their impact is becoming increasingly visible. I would like to draw the Member's attention separately to two important consumer protections. The government ordered mandatory action for retailers for the period from 1 June to 30 September 2023, with a net turnover of more than HUF 1 billion in 21 years. Twenty categories of products subject to action are defined. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] The government accepted the competition proposal of the President of the Economic Competition Office and decided to introduce an online price monitoring database. The online database will initially contain the price of more than 60 food categories. We expect this measure to continue to decrease prices and to stop overpriced and speculation by increasing competition. The government's objective has not changed in the current situation: it is necessary to protect the recession, to achieve economic growth and to reduce inflation to one digit by the end of the year. I trust that I have convinced the Member, but in the unexpected event that he does not accept my answer, I ask Parliament to support it. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-05-22-105	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. Mr Zsolt Gréczy has the floor to accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-05-22-106	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Of course, I cannot accept the answer, not even because, for example, he said that Hungary had become insolvent before 2010. That's a net lie! Hungary has never been insolvent. And by the way, you're saying that the crisis management at the time and the crisis management that we have now, that's how good this is. There was no such deficit in Hungary, there was no such debt in Hungary, and not a pound of bread was worth a thousand forints in Hungary. But I thought the answer would be that everything was fine, because self-criticism could never come out of the mouth of any government politician. The wrong economic policy is to blame for the current situation, said György Matolcsy. There is such a sentence for György Matolcsy, with which we can finally agree: Hungary's millions of Hungarians are poor because of inflation in Orbán.Therefore, they cannot pay rent, buy food, or buy medicine, so Hungarian children are not born, which is why emigration is increasing. For this reason, I must state that the Orbán government has destroyed Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2023-05-22-107	Thank you very much, Congressman. Since Congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply, I would like to inform the House that, according to our agreed agenda, the decision will take place tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Mr László György Lukács, leader of the Jobbik faction, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister:. Would the government wish to help the host companies by delaying the introduction of NTAK's reporting obligation? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Secretary Csaba Dömötör will answer you. Mr László György Lukács, leader of the group, has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-05-22-108	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Under the current legislation, the operator, owner or tenant of any catering business operating in Hungary must register its business at the National Tourism Data Service Centre, NTAK. In addition to mandatory registration, businesses will be required to provide data from 1 July this summer. In the autumn of last year, but again this spring, I have repeatedly called your attention to the serious technical burden of complying with the State Secretary's obligation to provide information which is detrimental to businesses, the fact that the acquisition of the tools that can provide data in the requested way means an investment of up to million, and the free software that you offer is not a solution. In fact, we have also drawn attention to the fact that it would be worthwhile to reschedule, as has already been done in the autumn session. In my view, the grounds for the proposal at that time still exist, as it is just as difficult now, if the hospitality workers and entrepreneurs are not in a more serious situation, and this is the basis for both the postponement and the request for cancellation. Both in the corona virus epidemic and in the current inflation crisis, these businesses are in a difficult situation, with increased fees for them, high cost of raw materials, and even variable and generally unfavourable price of forints, which is why they suffer serious damage. The gravity of the situation is shown by the fact that, in recent months, restaurants that have not managed to manage their premises have indeed been closed down. The reporting obligation, clearly, has become so high that it would again be a burden for them. It is also very difficult to imagine what such a reporting obligation would require for a school buffet or a periodically open flamer or hornblower, which should therefore provide information on all its customers in real time. The introduction of the new system will simply slow down service, causing annoying both businesses and guests. If there are two words to describe the NTAK reporting obligation in hospitality, then it can be said that it is not normal. In view of this, according to the conservative Jobbik on the side of the smallest enterprises, it is necessary to postpone further the reporting obligation, and even to say that a complete abolition or rethink of this whole reporting obligation should be considered. In view of this, I have also tabled a bill aimed at extending the deadline again or, otherwise, abolishing it later. I would therefore like to ask the honourable State Secretary, with all due respect, to help catering companies by delaying or abolishing the introduction of NTAK's reporting obligation from 1 July, to agree with the Government that, in this current situation, this cannot be introduced and to support the bill on the extension of the deadline, precisely so that businesses can be protected. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2023-05-22-109	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The answer, as I said, will be given by Secretary of State, Mr Csaba Dömötör, Deputy Minister. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
u2023-05-22-110	[[A moment's pause.]] Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Firstly, I would like to point out that the Hungarian Government regards tourism as a priority strategic sector. We would like to give all the help we can to the players in this sector. This can also be seen from the fact that during the epidemic, for example, we provided tax and contribution reductions, wage subsidies, companies could count on a credit moratorium, preferential loans and compensation for cancelled bookings. Then, in the war situation, the government decided on targeted overhead support and suspended the tourism development contribution for six months. This in itself is a significant help to those affected. The Hungarian Tourism Agency would also like to provide all the assistance necessary for the implementation of the reporting system or reporting system. As regards technical conditions, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that free software is provided to owners and operators as well as to accommodation providers. [[16.30]] This can also be used on mobile phones and tablets, with educational video and raised educational materials available. This is also important, I think, as early as 1 March, in order to give service providers sufficient time to learn how to operate the system before leaving on 1 July. It is also important that the daily traffic data of 45,000 accommodations are already received at the Data Service Centre. Why is that important? Because it helps the government to make long-term decisions [[Gergely Harvesto: Watching people!]] It allows for more targeted grants and marketing activities, but I would also like to draw Mr Arató's attention to this, for example, as a good basis for assessing energy aid. So it gives the government a clue as to where it deserves most support programmes. [[Gergely Arató: The answer is always Lőrinc Ripper!]] set aside. The operation of NTAK plays a major role in the fact that the performance of Hungarian tourism in 2022 was already close to the 2019 record TV, so, despite all difficulties, we almost reached the record level. So our position is that NTAK has passed the test successfully. Having an even more accurate statistical picture of the sector's performance can make the support system even more efficient. Finally, I would also like to point out that discussions with interest and professional organisations are ongoing. The date of data transmission was modified to a later date on the basis of these consultations. Of course, the government and the Tourism Agency continue to be open to professional proposals on all subjects. These will be examined by the Agency and, if any further decision is taken, information will be provided as soon as possible in normal order. Thank you for listening. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-05-22-111	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. I ask Mr. Group Leader to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2023-05-22-112	I don't accept the answer. I'm glad you're open to suggestions. Let me make a clear point at the very beginning: either abolish or extend the deadline, that is the opinion of the profession. It can be clearly read from social media, from various articles, basically everyone summarises that the person who made this regulation never stood on the other side of the catering counter, did not deal with a guest, and never tried to satisfy the guests 100% of their service to leave the restaurant satisfied. You can't compare it to accommodations because there are 10-20 or 30 guests in a hotel for 3-4-5-6 days, and in these places you may also be in the area of Lake Balaton and you can serve up to 100 guests in one hour. The same system cannot be applied to them. But to be clear, and I think that this is the solution, this is also a proposal for a solution: you know, Mr State Secretary, you will have to introduce this system to host businesses by introducing the online register in casinos. We recommend and tell you that stop NTAK, we want normal wages and normal Hungary. That's what entrepreneurs want. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2023-05-22-113	Thank you very much. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear House, It's 16 hours 33 minutes, we're at the end of the interpellations. Now we move on to questioning. Gergely Arató and Olga Kálmán, representatives of DK, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Why? It's an address. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the head of the DK Group said in advance that he would ask for a personal reply, so that he will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate questions due to his absence. It is now up to the representative of the DK fraction to ask the next question. Congressman Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:, How much is Hungarian if it is not NER? It's an address. In view of the fact that the head of the DK faction did not make a preliminary statement on the personal response to this immediate question, this should therefore be considered as not to have received a personal reply from the representative who asked the question on the basis of the House Rule of Decision. Accordingly, I would like to inform you that Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, will answer you. Congressman Gergely Harvesto has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-05-22-114	Dear House, It has never been more clear in Hungary than in our day that there are two Hungarys. There is a NER elite Hungary, a country of oligarchs and fidesz politicians, and there is a country of ordinary Hungarian citizens. The average Hungarian, when he goes into the store, sees that every day is more expensive. He sees that he can't buy the food, he sees that he needs to crouch the forints, he sees that his wages and pensions are getting less and less. You do not have such a problem, since the salaries of ministers and secretary-general have been raised. In Hungary, two things have doubled in the last two years: the price of food and the salary of Viktor Orbán. Your children go to private school, the children of Hungarian citizens go to public schools where there is almost no specialized teacher, where there is no one to keep the classes. I don't know, you've seen, Minister, Honourable Secretarys of State, how many have applied for pedagogical training this year. It is a shame and shows how Hungarian education is ruined. [[Bence Rétvári: Let's hear it!]] You heal in private hospitals and private doctors, while Hungarian citizens do not even know that you are coming to a serious case in the time of the ambulance. Of course, you do not have such a problem, as the Hungarian Rescue Service indicates that a VIP patient has arrived when it comes to you. Hungarian citizens are living more and more hard, struggling more and more, and you, the Fidesz, NER elite, are stealing everything, the Balaton, the castles. We are now at the point where Lőrinc Mészáros also steals iron from the reinforced concrete on the railways on which Hungarian citizens travel again until the first railway accident. My question, Minister, is how much longer this will take, when they will acknowledge their responsibility. [[Let's hear it for the DK benches.]]
u2023-05-22-115	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Congressman, I believe that there are things that can be discussed and that there are professional issues that are critical of ourselves. I think that stealing iron from the railroad is a little interesting, but the Minister will answer that. Here you go.
u2023-05-22-116	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The genre of political humor has ceased in Hungary because you make everything that used to be a sense of humor a reality. Your speech can only be included in this line, as you are here long-standingly listing lies about which school your children attend, what health care they can receive. On what grounds do you presume or claim these, since all these do not have any basis for reality. That racial and class-based thinking is not far from you, it is certainly reasonable to assume that if I had looked at your party's genetics and ally system, but if you hadn't noticed that, it would have been enough to hear their joint presidential candidate elected in the previous election campaign, because he wanted to represent the fascists and the communists simultaneously in the alliance that you created along with the forces you had been enthusiastically Nazid a few years ago. So much for your principle. Finally, I couldn't make it clear from your list, or couldn't make it clear which category Ference Gyurcsány was classified when he was talking about a really significant rise in food prices and the difficulties that this poses, as well as about the citizens of Hungary and the NER elite that had been compiled on some principle. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-05-22-117	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder will be given to Congressman Gergely Arató. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-05-22-118	Dear House, Political humor has not died in Hungary, Minister, but you do not enjoy it, because in Hungary half a country laughs at your bloated statements. It's true that what you pay so-called comedians for, really doesn't make anyone laugh. But what is more serious and more important, Minister, is that you have not answered my question as to when it will be enough, when it will be enough, that you and the oligarchs paid by you will be rich, and the majority of the country will be poor. But I will help you and tell you that it will be over when you are finally expelled by the Hungarian people, and there will be a government, the shadow government led by Dobrev Klára, which deals with the affairs of the country, and not to fill your pockets like you. [[Let's hear it for the DK benches.]] [[16.40]]
u2023-05-22-119	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Minister. Here you go.
u2023-05-22-120	Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, I must withdraw my statement that political humor does not exist, because your last sentence proves that it does exist, because the fact that Klára Dobrev forms a government in Hungary is part of this circle. It assumes a special relationship with reality that it is able to express these sentences with such enthusiasm. The problem is that you said that four years ago, eight years ago and twelve years ago. Compared to this, Hungarian voters have always voted in confidence to the civilian government in an increasing number, with a significant majority, but increasing numbers. I believe that your activities have also contributed significantly to this, and I would therefore like to thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-22-121	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear House, Fellow Members! Dávid Bedő, Ferenc Gelencsér, Szabó Szabolcs and Márton Tompos, representatives of the Momentum, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: It's an address. I will inform the Honourable Parliament, the head of the Momentum faction, said in advance that he would ask for a personal reply, so that he will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate questions due to Mr. Prime Minister's absence. We now have the question of your next representative of the Momentum fraction. Márton Kristóf Tompos, representative of the Momentum, wishes to ask the Minister of Construction and Transport an immediate question: "Do you support it, Minister? It's an address. I would like to inform you, Congressman, that in the absence of Minister Nándor Csepreghy, Minister of State, will answer you. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-22-122	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In connection with a very long-standing problem in Budapest, I would like to ask for your information and support. It's a rust zone near the Western Railway Station. Those who followed this theme know that for a very long time there have been a wide variety of ideas: government district, overpass park, circus center, and so on. János Lázár himself said about one of these plans, I think it might be just about the overpass park, how good it is, because the green area will grow by 20 hectares in connection with the Liget, which means 5,000 extra trees. Unfortunately, though, the reconstruction of the West and its surroundings has been removed from the agenda, and currently only the Artistic School has a building permit. This is a particularly serious problem, because Terézváros is the least green district and district of Budapest, which is why the district desperately needs new parks and new green spaces to be built. Therefore, Tamás Soproni's local government initiated that, as well as Eiffel Square, Podmaniczky Street, Ferdinand Bridge and the railway station, a park may be located temporarily for ten to twenty years. This would be Podmaniczky Park. Just so we understand the proportions: this is a 3.2-acre area, and if this could be built, it would double the size of the green spaces in Terézváros. My question is therefore, Mr Secretary of State, to you, as a representative of the competent Ministry, to support the establishment of this 3.2 hectares Podmaniczky park. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Momentum and Dialogue.]]
u2023-05-22-123	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I said, will be heard from Deputy Minister Nándor Csepreghy, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2023-05-22-124	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Thank you for the opportunity to talk about a project presented in 2017. Indeed, we are talking about the park concept known as Podmaniczky Park, which would have been built as a new government centre during the period of socialist governments. However, Minister Lázár presented a plan to the political and public publicity, which, as you said, was to create a new public park from the Western Railway Station along Podmaniczky road to the zoo. During the last four years, Dávid Vitézy, State Secretary, as head of the Budapest Centre for Development and then the National Transport Centre, has outlined a different concept for this park, which would have built a tunnel between the Western Railway Station and the South Railway Station, thus bringing the rails into the ground and creating a connecting tunnel. The Minister still maintains his position that a green area should be created here. Allow me to inform the political public here that, at the request and at the order of Minister Tamás Soproni, I have personally negotiated with Mayor Tamás in recent months, and we have agreed that, at the beginning of autumn this year, the municipality will put a plan on the table of the government that can take the first steps of establishing this public park, and we will look at how we can cooperate in this matter, because it is the common idea of the Ministry of Construction and Transport and the Minister that in this area a green park, a public park with an absolute recreational function, should be implemented, rather than new buildings in this area. So we are open to the Mayor's initiative. In the light of that plan and its resource needs, we will be able to make a joint decision on what will be later. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-22-125	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr Márton Tompos, Mr Kristóf, is to be heard. Here you go.
u2023-05-22-126	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The plan presented in 2017 was a little different. We are talking only about the smaller part, and at the moment it is only about a park that, I understand, would be covered by the municipality in all matters. So let me ask you a clarification: if the municipality, Terézváros, says that they will fix the plot, set up the green areas, cover their own money, would they be involved with some? So, is it an option for the Ministry to compensate or to waive the rent? Thank you.
u2023-05-22-127	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2023-05-22-128	Thank you, Mr. President. We agreed with Mr. Mayor that they would come up with this concept in a few months. Minister, I was instructed to stand with the greatest openness to the Mayor's initiative when I welcomed Mr. Mayor. If we see the actual municipal plans and the state needs related to the MÁV areas of the Ministry of Construction and Transport, then we will be open to the development of a concept that serves the interests of local residents and can be a common basis for the agreement between the municipality and the State. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-22-129	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Member Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question on the title of the Prime Minister's Office on current issues. Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that Minister Miklós Panyi has given you the right to reply. I respectfully ask that you accept the person of the responding person or ask the Minister himself for an answer.
u2023-05-22-130	I'll take it.
u2023-05-22-131	Thank you so much for accepting. Congressman Tamás Bellozó has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-05-22-132	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wish you'd been more elegant if you'd spent a few more minutes in this room, Minister. Mr. Secretary. The decision of the Győr Tribunal of 3 May 2023 gave the Győr people the opportunity to decide in a referendum that they wanted a battery plant in Győr. We were confident that at least one year before the municipal elections, they would not reject their mayor, acting as a party cadre in Győr, to take away the opportunity from the inhabitants of Győr to decide on such a decisive issue in a referendum. Yet you have done so. In addition, this was done in such a transparent way that the Constitutional Court submissions were submitted by the municipality and its company, owned by 100%, with more ridiculous and legally unfounded arguments. In fact, they did so illegally, without the decision of the General Assembly of Győr, which is, by the way, a legal prerequisite for a municipal Constitutional Court's submission is Mötv. According to him. They claim in these submissions that it is in itself that the inhabitants of Győr can express their views in a referendum, violates the rights and interests of the government. They claim that this kind of violation of government interest in Hungary is a direct violation. It is said that the interests of the government are ahead of the interests of the inhabitants of Győr. And the Győr people fear for their interests for a reason. Last summer, locals faced the fact that in the development of the 10 billion-dollar industrial park managed as a key public investment, the area can receive a Gipz classification, which is close to their homes, and is still a farm plowing plant, i.e. a dangerous plant. Secretary of State, before setting up such a plant, the most fundamental right of the people of Győr is, if you will, the human right to decide whether or not to expose themselves, their families, their children to such an investment and its consequences. That is why I ask why they ordered their party cadet in Győr to attack the referendum in front of the Constitutional Court. Why are you trying to stop the Győr people from making their own opinions and making their own decisions? And finally, Mr. Secretary of State, your wallet and the government office in defense of the rights and interests of the inhabitants of Győr, given that the local government has filed an appeal in violation of municipal law? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in the lines of MSZP and Dialogue.]] [[16.50]]
u2023-05-22-133	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I said, will be given by Secretary of State Miklós Panyi. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2023-05-22-134	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, We have had several debates here in the last few days, in recent weeks on the issue of battery factories. I would like to continue to stress that, as has been said earlier, the Government Office always acts with the utmost care during the authorisation procedure and lays down the strictest environmental conditions for licences issued. This is subject to EU rules, and within these limits the Hungarian authorities impose the strictest rules and the strictest standards. I would also like to point out that the maximum possible transparency for the operation and licensing of battery factories has been achieved, as it is a part of the procedure of the Government Office that it continuously uploads thousands of pages of documents, which is part of the procedure. In the case of the Debrecen battery plant, more than 300 questions were received during the approval process, these questions were examined by the Government Office one by one. Any irregularities that occur shall be examined by the Government Office and, if there is an infringement or infringement, it shall act in such cases. So these procedures are transparent, these procedures have been carried out, and if there is any such announcement, then the government office will act. I would also like to point out that there is a political debate on battery companies that is definitely against the interests of the country. There is huge competition for these investments, for these investments they are lining up, and the Hungarian government is doing everything in its power to ensure the competitiveness of the country, even in this difficult economic situation, with jobs that lead the country to the economy of the future. Thank you.
u2023-05-22-135	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr Tamás Harangozó, is the subject of the floor. Here you go.
u2023-05-22-136	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. Secretary. I didn't ask you about Debrecen or what kind of permission the government has to issue. It's worth checking out what happened in Göd, and then people can see it for themselves, based on photos and reports, how much your environmental license is worth, but I didn't ask you about it either. I didn't ask what the Hungarian government is doing to build battery factories. I'm asking you why you're preventing people from deciding on their lives, their health, their families' lives and their health. Why are they attacking a court decision in the Constitutional Court, and I asked you, as the responsible secretary of state, that the petition which clearly violates the municipal law will be reviewed by the government office, held accountable to the mayor of Győr for either doing so or not, or that you will wait for the people of Győr to hold the mayor, if not at any other time, to be held accountable in the municipal elections next year for this action. I'm still waiting for your answer. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2023-05-22-137	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State, please.
u2023-05-22-138	Dear House, Honourable Congressman, With regard to Göd, I would also like to assure you that the government office is acting, and that whatever violation you are experiencing, you will proceed in that case. In the case of Győr on the ongoing issue, I would like to say that if the Government Office finds any irregularities, it will, of course, exercise the right of judicial supervision and will act. However, I would like to reject your accusations concerning your maladministration. If there is a violation of the law of the government, you will proceed to this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-22-139	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Mr Brenner Koloman, Mr László György Lukács and Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What do you think of this, Prime Minister? It's an address. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the leader of the Jobbik faction said in advance that he would ask for a personal reply, so that he will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate questions due to Mr. Prime Minister's absence. We now have the question of the next representative of the Jobbik faction who would like to ask a question. Congressman Brenner Koloman, the representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister for Regional Development an immediate question:. What do you think of this, Minister? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Minister Csaba Latorcai, Deputy Minister, granted the right to reply because of his absence. I respectfully ask you, accept your response.
u2023-05-22-140	Yeah.
u2023-05-22-141	Thank you very much. My former vice-president has already indicated his acceptance of the response. Congressman Brenner Koloman has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-05-22-142	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, My question is simple: when will Minister Navracsics and the current Fidesz government assume the responsibility of not having Hungarian citizens access to the European Union's money? After all, if we just go through the fact that Minister Navracsics has been saying for nearly a year or about a year, in May, he said that in the second half of the year, these funds for Hungarian citizens will already arrive. In June Minister Navracsics said that these funds will arrive in our country this year. Then, in September, the deadline was a little late: the Minister promised to receive these funds for the first quarter of 23 years. And now, in March, [[Sic!]] Well, let's just say during the summer, that's the last promise. While, and this is the most important, Honourable Secretary of State, the Hungarian citizens face that extremely difficult economic and social crisis with inflation in Orbán on a daily basis, while the EU funds for our country will not be received by our country because the current Fidesz one-party overpower has deposed the rule of law, because it has practically implemented a system of corruption in our country with a system of overpriced assets, on which the European Commission is now withholding these funds. This is your responsibility! Don't point fingers at anyone else, because this is your responsibility, and Hungarian citizens have already lost serious billions of money from the recovery fund, for example, because of this slippage, while most EU Member States have used the money of this fund a long time ago. So it would be very, very important for you to finally stand up and tell the Hungarian citizens honestly: yes, because of the current Fidesz government, Hungarian citizens do not have access to the EU funds that are due to them. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2023-05-22-143	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Csaba Latorcai, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2023-05-22-144	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, The responsibility is not for Minister Navracsics, but for the left-wing opposition. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] And the Jobbik in it. Because despite trying to say, after their last turn, that the Jobbik are a conservative party, who also have an extraordinary European mindset, well, Congressman, the facts do not show this. The content behind the name will not change from compensation in Brussels. Because the facts show, honourable Member, that while here in Parliament they are expressing sublime thoughts and urging the return of European Union funds, even in April you acknowledged that Hungarians are entitled to European Union funds; yet, while in the European Parliament, what are you doing, honourable Member? Your pro-sanctioned president, Márton Gyöngyösi, went to Brussels and pressed a button to ban our EU funds. However, I could also mention the example of one day when you voted in favour of the amendment of the law on declarations of assets, which you say was adopted to reach agreement with the Commission at the beginning of the session, and the next day, with a turn of 180 degrees, you are attacking the government here in Parliament because, as you say, the European Union is negotiating as a market kofa. Honourable Congressman, If your party president, Márton Gyöngyösi, did not do mine work against the interests of Hungary as an integral part of the dollar left, the resources we deserve would already be at our disposal. At the same time, I would like to stress that the technical negotiations with the Commission on judicial commitments have now been concluded, despite the great counterwind in Brussels and back home, we have done what we have done. It is now time for Brussels: stop making excuses and send the funds to Hungarian people, Hungarian businesses as soon as possible! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-22-145	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Brenner Koloman, please. [[17.00]]
u2023-05-22-146	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Somewhere I find it shameful that both Minister Navracsics and you, in addition to this intellect, these fidesz propaganda speeches, cannot give Hungarian citizens any meaningful answer about the fact that, while Viktor Orbán and Fidesz have been ruling for 17 years out of more than 30 years since the change of regime, why the wages of Hungarian citizens are kept where they stand: one of the lowest in the European Union. And the fact that you are the Jobbik-Conservatives, the only right party in our country with a Euroatlantic commitment, is on the left here again a poverty certificate [[Bence Rétvári: He practiced this in front of a mirror.]] It shows that you really can't think of anything but the same three propaganda contributions that Comrade Rogán made up in his ministry. When Minister Navracsics finally resigns, because he promised that if the European Union money did not come, he would do so. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2023-05-22-147	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2023-05-22-148	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Speaking of explanations, please explain to me how you understood the statement you made recently, when the host asked you that Márton Gyöngyösi's goal is to get the EU funds or what Ferenc Gyurcsány is working on to prevent us from getting it. Well, Congressman, you replied: neither one nor the other. Mr. Congressman, you yourself have admitted that they do not aim to give Hungarian people, Hungarian businesses, the resources they receive under their law. Your immediate question is a perfect example of the lack of credibility that Jobbik is doing. In view of this, all I ask is that if you do not wish to support the government's objectives in terms of bringing EU funds home as soon as possible, then at least do not prevent the funds due to Hungarian people, Hungarian businesses, from finally arriving. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-22-149	Thank you very much. Dear House, Fellow Members! Ms Dóra Dúró and Mr László Toroczkai Group leader, representatives of Mi Hazank, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question with the title of "current Public Affairs." I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the head of the Group of Mi Hazank has stated in advance that he is asking for a personal reply, so he must answer in the hour of the third immediate questions due to Mr. Prime Minister's absence. We now have the question of the representative of the Hungarian Group who would like to ask the next question. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, representative of Mi Hazank, vice-president of the Parliament, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question: - Will the government let the WHO tell us how Hungarians live? It's an address. Madam Vice President, Because of Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. Tamás Menczer appointed Mr. Secretary of State to answer. I respectfully ask you, accept your response. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President indicates that she accepts the person who is responding. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, vice-president of the Parliament, has the floor. Here you go. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai in the notary seat.]]
u2023-05-22-150	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Another attack on human freedom and national sovereignty will be launched by WHO with the establishment of the Pandemic Treaty. The Mi Hazank Movement expects the Hungarian government to prevent this and to extend it to Hungary with binding effect. Although your Covid policy was at the forefront of pointless closures, and people were blackmailed with vaccinations that, if they weren't hired, were expected to happen, they later turned out to be Ursula von der Leyen's text with the leaders of global pharmaceutical companies as heads of the European Commission. So it should be about compensation, people's compensation these days, more about public speaking, but instead, we need to prevent another deniability. As early as 2021, WHO announced that it wanted an epidemic treaty to be adopted, and the wording of it had already begun. It clearly shows, and it says white and black, that there will be legally binding elements for nation states, not just any. For example, this contract should be applied to all future epidemics, and its implementation will be monitored by the WHO body specifically set up for this purpose. But even here they do not stop, they have to report directly to the Hungarian government to the WHO about the people who question the solutions proposed by the WHO, and here they also explicitly name vaccines. Therefore, the State should quasi report to WHO who are citizens who do not accept their solutions. My question, Mr State Secretary, is that you are finally willing to protect the Hungarian people from the lobby of global capital. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-05-22-151	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The answer, as I said, will be given by Secretary of State Tamás Menczer. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2023-05-22-152	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and He asked how the government would let the WHO tell us how Hungarians live. That's the question you asked me, isn't it? My answer is that no, the Hungarian government will not let anyone tell us how Hungarian people live. About how Hungarians live, as we have said many times before, only Hungarians can decide, come up with this question in any area. So, of course, it is also true of the health aspect that no one can force anything on us. We make decisions on health issues based on the opinions of the Hungarian people and, above all, Hungarian doctors and professionals. Now, as far as vaccinations are concerned, let me just say that it is clear that you are an anti-vaccination party, right, this has been made public, it has been advertised, it has been promoted, and we have been pro-vaccination under the coronal virus, and we are now. Let me add so much here that they are careful because the left is led by Ferenc Gyurcsány, so they will find themselves next to Ferenc Gyurcsány, along with their good right-wing colleagues. This trip is not a recipe for success, but it is worth paying attention to. And with regard to blackmail, let me say that I must respectfully reject this, that we have never blackmailed anyone, that is not our custom. We made our decisions on the basis of the decision of Hungarian doctors and professionals in the control of the coronal virus, and we kept the health, health and health of Hungarian people in mind in our work. With regard to the WHO, I can say that, as with all agreements, whether it is an agreement in health or in any other area, we will consider it carefully, and we will decide on the basis of the Hungarian interest. Thank you so much for listening.
u2023-05-22-153	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Madam Vice President. Here you go.
u2023-05-22-154	Dear Secretary of State, There is a specific text before the WHO, which also contains the texts that I have presented in my previous statement. Is that acceptable to you? I would like a clear and clear answer to that: yes there is no. This is a very clear and decisive question. Ferenc Gyurcsány and the left were not anti-vaccinations, and it was their health minister who wanted to make vaccination mandatory for everyone. So if you try to wash our country's movement together as a third-way opposition party with the Gyurcsánys, you should do so at least more demandingly, but you obviously do not have the opportunity to do so, because we fundamentally think differently about the world. Referring to the fact that they based their opinions on vaccinations on professionals, it is also not true, as Ursula von der Leyen has done this procurement for the European Union in text messages, so obviously no scientific or health considerations have been raised. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-05-22-155	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2023-05-22-156	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If you say that cooperation with Ferenc Gyurcsány is indiscriminate, then we agree on that. At the same time, we cannot go beyond the fact that, but they were also anti-vaccinations, several of their mayors and politicians wanted to forbid the Hungarian people from having access to vaccinations, and so are you. So that's why I'm telling you to watch Jobbik, this road, the Gyurcsányi road is not a recipe for success. We also agree that what happened with the European Commission and the President of the Commission is crying out after the inquiry, and there is no debate between us, but this does not affect what experts say about a vaccine. Purchasing and medical judgment are two different things. The third is, once again, that every draft text, including what you have brought here, will be considered, and we will decide at the right time on the basis of Hungarian interests. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[17.10]]
u2023-05-22-157	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: "What's going on? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Due to the Minister's absence, Mr Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister of State, was entitled to respond. I respectfully ask you to accept the identity of the responder. [[Bence of Turdai nodds.]] Thank you very much, Mr President, for expressing your acceptance of the response. Congressman Bence of Turdai has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-05-22-158	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In the last few days, we have faced and faced the crisis of public education and of the entire education system, but it seems that they are still not working on the solutions, but are trying to escape this political storm, which you believe is rapidly passing away. I've got some bad news. You're not gonna get away with this. You're trying to ruin the future of our children. It is no coincidence that the students, teachers, parents, grandparents and the entire Hungarian society are absolutely desperate and voiced. I am saying that they are treating the situation with lies, just the most amusing example of which: on Saturday I read about myself that I would have directed the aggressive protesters allegedly attacking the police. It's especially funny that I wasn't even there when any more exciting events happened. They didn't support it with pictures, videos or anything. That's the level of their lies in the Fidesz propaganda, but it's much more serious than what they say about real protestors, students, or teachers. My question is, in fact, Mr Secretary, that you would lie to yourself and lie about what you wrote to Brussels. It is indicated that the government and Parliament will not unilaterally introduce rules to increase the workload of teachers, to limit existing professional autonomy or to reduce the attractiveness of the profession, such measures should only take place on the basis of meaningful social dialogue with the largest teachers' unions, in particular by seeking consensus on acquired rights. Or do you agree, say, with your head of state, who said that regardless of all the resources and economic difficulties of the European Union or any other, that there must be an opportunity for teachers to receive the financial and moral appreciation they deserve in Hungary? So do you agree with yourself, or have you lied to me again? If you agree with yourself, you will withdraw it or not submit it for me, right? will the status law or the Vengeance Act be negotiated only on nine points of the pedagogical organisations? Answer me, please, Mr. Secretary.
u2023-05-22-159	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2023-05-22-160	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, So we learned that Bence Tordai was the politician who wasn't there. Obviously, you weren't here in Parliament's Chamber when you occupied the pulpit when Vice-President Latorcai was not allowed to run a meeting when you were sirening, when you were trying to prevent Parliament from making laws by any kind of noise and otherwise. Mr. Congressman, I'm sure you weren't there either, and you can't even see it on the camera, because you were holding the camera, so the other side was shown, and you have proof of that. What you've been doing over the last few weeks is clear as day. You know, honourable Member, back in the day, we've seen that when people organized these kind of aggressive street activities, they hired me, asked a few people to push the crowds onto the police. We now see that some politicians in the Momentum no longer have a friend, acquaintance, reliable man, but they are the ones who can now see the people in Hungary with their own eyes standing behind them, a line of people behind them, and they themselves, the politicians, are pushing people onto the police. That's where we've come! The people who have sworn to uphold and enforce the laws, they push people into the police line as politicians instead of giving their opinions peacefully. Everyone had, has, and will have the opportunity to give any opinion here in Parliament and in the debate of the legislative proposals and, of course, in peaceful assembly on the streets, because the laws offer everyone the possibility of peaceful assembly. But you, the left, are not on the side of the peaceful, but on the side of aggressive, provocative demonstrations on the American left, trying to gain political benefit. This is a well-known international method for Woke, BLM, Occupy and other movements. That's what you do at home. And we really sought consensus with the participants in education, which is why we held meaningful discussions, more than ten discussions with the unions, exactly three consultations with the teachers, to which 25, 33 and 18 thousand teachers responded with their comments, 130 thousand parents responded with their comments in the National Public Education Round Table and in the National Public Education Council, and we sought consensus everywhere, or at least to listen to each other's views. I have the good news, honourable Member, that in 45 of the 63 proposals raised, we accepted the proposals of trade unions and other organisations in whole or in part. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-22-161	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Bence Tordai. Here you go.
u2023-05-22-162	It is difficult to follow the argument made by the Secretary of State, so the fact that I was in this Chamber years earlier proves to you that I would have conducted any protests last Friday. I don't understand. Or what the momentary colleagues are doing at a protest follows from what I, who am the representative and co-chair of the Dialogue Greens, did at this demonstration. Seriously, so we expected a little more from you. I understand that he is good at deflecting, I understand that these kamukonsultations have been carried out, but my bad news is that he is not convincing Hungarian teachers, Hungarian students, parents, grandparents or Brussels about anything. So that appearance consultation, that national consultation aimed at educators didn't reach their goal, and now no one's sucking it up. So it's time to start talking about nine points for teachers, not the Vengeance Act. My question is that you are finally willing to do this, for example, this Wednesday with Minister Sándor Pintér.
u2023-05-22-163	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Deputy Minister, the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2023-05-22-164	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, His own ally, Péter Ungár's group leader, told us about this action, that this is a parody, the majority of the opposition voters expect a little less hysteria and exhibitions from us. He also said that a different policy should be taken instead, but it should be decided by each of us, but it is not acceptable to use violence in politics, in any place, in any case, in Parliament, in Kossuth Square, in party headquarters, in ministries, in the State Audit Office, in the National Election Office or in the Presidential Office of the Republic. In previous years, you have used violence at almost all the sites I've listed. There have been very few consultations: on March 1, 6, 13, 16, 17, 12, 21, 25, 2 May and 16 May, honourable Member, in order to introduce a bill that would introduce a number of hours among teachers, more intensively dealing with students, using more innovative methods, dealing with break-ups or dealing with talented people, organising several class trips, who would be more willing to be more competitive in the interests of children, and who would be able to receive more wage increases in substance. That's the law that we've put in place for consultation and consultation. That's the goal that leads us, and that's what you're against, the wage increase, and the wage ratio, so that anyone who cares more about the kids will earn more. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-22-165	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question: "How could this happen, Madam Minister? I respectfully inform you, Mr President, that, due to the absence of Minister, Mr Robert Répássy, Deputy Minister of State has given his right to reply. I respectfully ask you, do you accept the person who is responding, or ask the Minister for the answer personally.
u2023-05-22-166	Mr President, I think it is time for Minister to answer in person some important questions concerning the Völner-Schadl case, so I will wait for her to be present in person. Thank you.
u2023-05-22-167	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you, Congressman, and this House that the Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Congresswoman Bernadett Bakos, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Construction and Transport an immediate question:. Will you accept the position of the people of Budapest if you decide not to give your Lanchi to the drivers? It's an address. Minister Nándor Csepreghy, Deputy Minister of State, granted the right to reply. With all due respect, you'll accept the recipient's identity. [[Bernadette Bakos: Yes.]] Thank you very much for indicating to me that you have accepted the person you are responding to. Congresswoman Bakos Bernadett has the floor. Here you go. [[17.20]]
u2023-05-22-168	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The mayor of Budapest has rightly decided to consult the metropolitan people on, among other things, the Chain Bridge's traffic order, so the people living here can decide whether to let pedestrians, crowds and cyclists use the Lanchid unimpeded, or to repel it by car traffic. We very much hope that the result will be clearly the former, and we base this hope on the fact that the majority of Budapesters are already travelling on foot, by bicycle, by scooter and by public transport. They are the silent majority in Budapest, but their interests are not sufficiently taken into account. Meanwhile, the number of asthmatic children in Budapest has doubled in the last 15 years, 3 000 people die of air pollution each year, and according to a two-year study by the European Centre for Public Health, the pollution of air is estimated to cause damage of EUR 3 billion per year. The situation is therefore clear: in Budapest we need not more, but less cars, better public transport, better air and a more liveable environment. What is needed in Budapest is that pedestrians, publicists and cyclists can enforce their interests, because on the one hand there are more people, and on the other hand they make every single life in Budapest better when they do not get into a car. The question is that the government will accept the decision of the Budapest people, because so far we have been threatened that the government will not pay our tax dollars to renovate the Chain Bridge if it is handed over to the non-carriageing majority as decided by the Budapesters. But this money is due to the metropolitan people, it is not a donation, it is a duty on the part of the Government of Hungary. I therefore ask Mr Secretary of State to respond clearly, to accept the position of the Budapest people, if they decide to give Lanchid to public transport, bicycles and walking. Thank you very much.
u2023-05-22-169	Thank you very much, honourable Member. The answer will be heard from Deputy Minister Nándor Csepreghy, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2023-05-22-170	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Allow me, on behalf of all pro-government and, I think, opposition politicians, to say that it is our job, the task of politicians, to hear and listen to the opinions of the people on the one hand. This is true of Budapest and is true of the countryside. The Minister met with Mayor Gergely Christmas a few months ago. The next meeting between the two of them will also take place in the next few weeks. I'm sure this meeting will also be on the subject of the Chain Bridge. By the way, allow me, Congresswoman, to add that everyone's opinion is really important, including those of our fellow citizens who refuse to drive and those who are forced to do so. We are looking forward to the end of this consultation, after which the Government will be able to take any position on this matter, and I believe that Mr. Mayor will manage it in the same place as soon as this political programme is completed. Thank you. [[In the notary seat, Sándor Szabó replaces Dezső the Believer.]]
u2023-05-22-171	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder is due to the congresswoman. Congresswoman Bakos Bernadett has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-05-22-172	Thank you very much for your reply. If I understand this correctly, this was an, perhaps we agreed to the opinion of the Budapesters, because it was not clear enough and clear enough, so I am going to try again to make it clear, Mr. Secretary of State that yes, if the Budapesters decide to maintain the Lanchid car-free, they will accept this or not, and ensure the 6 billion forints promised to renovate the Chain Bridge. Thank you very much.
u2023-05-22-173	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Deputy Minister, the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2023-05-22-174	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Congresswoman, for the offer, but I am not yet looking for a spokesperson. I think that I have made it clear that the government will hear and listen to the opinions of the people of Budapest as well as of all Hungarians, but let me ask you, Congresswoman, to finish the investment first, because the capital has undertaken an investment, if the work is done, then we can talk about financial matters. In recent years, the government has proved that it hears the opinion of the Hungarian people and listens to the opinion of the Hungarian people. The government of Viktor Orbán was given four consecutive two-thirds power in a row. Thank you very much.
u2023-05-22-175	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister, Secretary of State. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, representative of Fidesz, would you like to ask the Minister for Regional Development an immediate question: EU funds held back at political pressure? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Minister Csaba Latorcai, Deputy Minister, granted the right to reply because of his absence. I respectfully ask you to accept the identity of the responder. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much for indicating to me that you accept the person you are responding to. Congresswoman Mónika Dunai has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-05-22-176	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, It is clear to the contrary that the dollar left is fighting hand-to-hand with Brussels bureaucrats, with all its might, for the EU funds due to our country. In recent days, MEP Daniel Freund, who constantly criticized our country, made an outrageous statement. A journalist's question that there really was no EU support for Hungary if he didn't let migrants in, Freund replied, and I quote: "The attitude that there is no migration, no one can enter the country, leads to a very clear withdrawal of EU funds. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Ladies and gentlemen, It is clear that the visit of the Committee on Budgetary Control of the European Parliament in Budapest is nothing more than part of Brussels' political pressure. It is important to note that the body is not a superior body of Hungary. So what they're doing doesn't actually divide, doesn't multiply. It is not an authority that could make binding decisions. It is obvious that Brussels does not like the fact that the citizens of Hungary refused illegal migration in a referendum or that Hungary has adopted a very strict package of child protection laws, saying no to the sexualisation of underage children. Is there a problem with democracy on the left and in the European Union? I'm asking. Brussels expects Member States to take a migrant-smoking position. Genderideological madness would make it a behaviour, norm in Europe. On the other hand, we continue to say no war, no migration, no gender. We refuse to allow it now or later. Dear Secretary of State, In view of what has been said, I ask you that the European Union really is holding back the European Union's resources and otherwise legitimate resources for our country under political pressure. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-22-177	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Csaba Latorcai, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2023-05-22-178	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Unfortunately, but it does seem that the debate on EU funds is increasingly about pressure and political blackmail. Before last week's visit to the European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control, left-wing MEP Daniel Freund presented the verdict he had for his visit, saying that we should not expect money from Brussels until we support migration, gender madness and war. It was also shocking to see that the Committee of the European Parliament, in addition to Sándor Rónai, DK, was led by Katalin Cseh, who had been involved in a serious corruption scandal in connection with EU support, and that the authority had taken action against his family company just recently. The Government has received the European Parliament's committee with the utmost constructivity, but, as you can see, there has been no susceptibility to this. In fact, the visit was not even finished, Daniel Freund was in a hurry to present the new blackmail on the left, which is this: it is not simply that the money must continue to be held back, but the Commission must think about the new pressure it would require in order to force a substantial change on the part of the Hungarian government. I think it is clear to the country-world that the left has betrayed Hungarian interests in exchange for Soros dollars. There is a list of left-wing representatives who carry out continuous minework. Just think that Csaba Molnár called it his patriotic obligation to harm Hungarian people, Hungarian businesses by withholding money. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: This is a lie! That's not true!]] So it seems that the Left continues its centuries-old tradition, and it would be good to recognize what the Hungarian electorate has long recognized that serving ideological colonialism is not patriotism, but political treason. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-22-179	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. Here you go. [[17 .30]]
u2023-05-22-180	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The Commission has examined Budapest for the third time in the European Union since 2010. It is interesting that between 2004 and 2010, when comrades of the European Left, the Hungarian dollar left-wing government, did not investigate any of the EU's committees in Hungary. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: Because we didn't steal, that's why!]] It could have been very much investigated, given that the brutal corruption cases took place during this period. For example, I could mention the 4th metro scandal, where the European Anti-Fraud Office found the theft of 160 billion forints. During this period, the human rights situation was not considered to be examined, even though in 2006 a violent police terrorist raged on the streets of Budapest. You can't forget that. Dear Secretary of State, I accept your answer, but it remains unacceptable that the Gyurcsány couple, Katalin Csaba Csaba Csaba Molnár, and their comrades in Brussels continue to dig against the Hungarian people. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-22-181	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2023-05-22-182	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I suggest we look ahead. The National Assembly adopted the bill of Justice at the beginning of May, so that the objectives aimed at Hungary not to lose EU funds have now been met. It is now the Union's turn: to fulfill, to refer to what is due to Hungarian people, Hungarian businesses. In recent weeks and months, we have had the opportunity to learn about the desire, selfish will of Daniel Freund, Ferenc Gyurcsány, Csaba Molnár, Sándor Rónai, Katalin Cseh and their other left-wing partners, so that Hungarian people and Hungarian businesses will not see a penny of EU support until they support migration until they support gender madness and until they support the war. Our answer to them is no, never! As much as you want, we won't let the Migraines flood our country, no matter how much you want it, we won't give our children into their perverted hands, and no matter how much they want it, we won't let them squeeze the country into the war. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-22-183	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister, Secretary of State. Dear House, Fellow Members! Mr Attila Móring, representative of the KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question:. How long will he continue his pro-war and sanctions operations with the title of the Dollar Left? Honourable Congressman, Mr. Speaker of Parliament. Because of Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. Miklós Panyi was entitled to reply. [[Attila Móring József nods.]] Thank you very much for indicating to me that you accept the person you are responding to. Mr Attila Móring has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-05-22-184	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, You're not losing the will to fight on the dollar-left. Although the overwhelming majority of Hungarian voters have already said no to war and sanctions during the elections in April last year, the Gyurcsány Party and its divisions would continue to send weapons to Ukraine, they do not want to hear about the ceasefire, and they continue to use sanctions on the basis of Brussels, which, of course, is not surprising, because in exchange for rolling dollars, they also have to comply with this order. That's why the pro-war and sanctions statements don't have a number. Just to recall the evergreens in a few words: Péter Márki-Zay said two days before the outbreak of the war that if NATO decides to support Ukraine with weapons, of course we will support this. Before the war, András Fekete-Győr also spoke about the supply of weapons. And last April Bence Tordai said that it would be high time for Hungary to start direct arms shipments. During a later confrontation, he even added that there was no need to be ashamed. Then, according to Márton Tompos, a ceasefire should not be concluded now, and even the preaching of the ceasefire is harmful. Dávid Bedő said that because of the rejection of arms shipments, Momentum will not vote for the proposal for a peace-making resolution that has been adopted since then. Anita Potocsány Kőrösi, on a forum, cynically said, "He who has gone to be a soldier, has gone there so that if he is sent to NATO, he can get on the plane and go to war, because that's why he gets paid. But perhaps this time, the most glorious idea comes from the fallen Prime Minister of the Left, Ferenc Gyurcsány: a lousy human being and quote, and every Hungarian who refuses to die for Ukraine. As regards sanctions: Márton Gyöngyösi, the former Russian-friendly Donyecki observer, said that sanctions are good and effective, and Hungary should stand in line, which is led by Brussels. Dear Secretary of State, Please state your position on the question of how long the anti-war and sanctions business can continue on the dollar-left side, there is one point where the dollar will no longer dictate. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-22-185	Thank you very much, honourable Member. I give the floor to Secretary of State Miklós Panyi. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2023-05-22-186	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The Hungarian interest of Hungary and all the Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin is beyond discussion, so that the war will end as soon as possible. Hundreds of people die every day in the conflict, and Europe's economy pays a heavy price for high inflation, high energy prices, problems for families and companies. It is also clear that the sanctions imposed by the European Union have not ended the war. In addition, Hungary has been seriously involved in the conflict for several reasons, since, on the one hand, it is a front country, more than a million people have come to Hungary from Ukraine, fleeing from the war. In addition, the Hungarians of Transcarpathia, who have changed their lives radically: hundreds of thousands of internal refugees, broken families, power outages, insecurity. Many Transcarpathians of Hungary lost their lives in the conflict. The longer the armed conflict lasts, the greater the risk that the war will demand another Hungarian sacrifice. So the war must end. Therefore, the Hungarian government's clear position is that it is not the withdrawal of the conflict, not the escalation of war, not the expansion of war, but the immediate closure of the conflict. This requires first a ceasefire and then peace talks. This pro-peace position was confirmed by the Hungarian Parliament's resolution. The majority of the world's countries and the Pope of Rome also advocate peace. That is why it is irresponsible, honourable Member, that the dollar left once again opposes the interests of the Hungarian people. Ferenc Gyurcsány and the dollar left are not in favour of peace, but of the length of the war, so they have not voted in favour of the peace resolution adopted by the Hungarian Parliament, therefore they are in favour of arms shipments, and therefore support the misguided sanctions in Brussels, as it has been shown by the Member's list. The Hungarian government will not allow the country to be forced into war by exerting foreign pressure. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-22-187	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Attila Móring József, the notary of Parliament. Here you go.
u2023-05-22-188	Guns and ammo can only be destroyed, and the longer the war takes, the more people suffer, the more value the fighting parties destroy. Our job is not to judge peace, what is just and what is not, because fighting only brings destruction. We want peace, and it would be good for everyone, perhaps now, to raise their word for peace, as well as for the dollar left. Whatever pressure we face from Brussels bureaucrats and the dollar left, we stand by peace and reject sanctions that cripple European citizens. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-22-189	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Miklós Panyi is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2023-05-22-190	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I explained in my previous comment that it is clear what is in Hungary's interest in this conflict: the ceasefire, peace. And the truth is that we are not surprised by the behaviour of the Hungarian left, it was also said in the previous debate that Ferenc Gyurcsány and his people have recently openly admitted that they are lobbying against Hungary in Brussels, so to speak, feeling their patriotic obligation to do so. And they, just as they are working against Hungarian interests in the area of Brussels resources, do so in connection with the war, for the drag of war, for arms shipments and for other acts that may pose a risk to the extent of war. This irresponsible and unacceptable behaviour is against the interests of the Hungarian people, and this is rejected by the majority of Hungarian citizens. Hungary and the majority of the Hungarian people are in favour of peace, and as I indicated, the Hungarian government will do everything in its power to prevent the country from being forced into this war by exerting foreign pressure. Thank you for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-22-191	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, It's 5:39 p.m., and we're at the end of Question Time. [[17.40]] We are now continuing today's work in debates. Dear House, Fellow Members! The Commission's reports on legislative amendments to the ex post impact assessment of the transformation in vocational training and the discussion of the summarised amendment follow. The government referral is T/3756. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Nagy, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-05-22-192	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 18 May 2023, the Legislative Committee discussed the amendments to the law resulting from the ex post impact assessment of the transformation in vocational training T/3756. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 26 votes in favour, 3 votes against and 6 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The provisions of the bill before us cover the subjects of the operation of vocational training institutions, the organisation of dual training, the broadening of adult vocational training opportunities, as well as the rules on vocational training contracts, professional examination and data management. Dear House, Allow me to briefly point out some elements of the bill. Several amendments are being made in the draft to strengthen dual training and to increase their opportunities, so that there will be two opportunities to conclude temporary vocational training contracts for a total of 12 weeks instead of one per year, and the dual training instructor will be given more opportunities to involve external partners in the education process than is currently the case. The range of organisations that can be registered as dual training places will be expanded, including with primary producers, as well as the employment contract for vocational training will be concluded in addition to the medical service relationship and the public employment relationship, allowing health and social institutions to teach their own workers profession as dual trainers. The proposal ensures that the school year, the school year's schedule, can also be regulated independently in vocational training. The proposal expands the scope of legal reorganization during the transitional period for professional examination, which runs until the end of 2025, and empowers multi-purpose public education institutions to organise vocational examinations with a basic task financed by the State. Finally, in the context of adult education, the introduction of lifelong learning and employability micro-certificates in adult education will also be incorporated into the legislative package, as recommended by the Council of the European Union, with the aim of promoting the spread of the Adult Education Act. Dear Parliament, The amending proposal negotiated and adopted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs contains language suitability and codification clarifications. To sum up, the presentation before us is the outcome of the development process, which reviews the professional results and experiences of the past period, with proposals for evaluation and fine-tuning purposes, which aims to help vocational training as an important pillar of investment in the future by putting the new type of vocational training system on a sustainable, growing path. I ask this House to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-22-193	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Zoltán Hankó Balázs, that he wishes to speak now.
u2023-05-22-194	No, thank you.
u2023-05-22-195	He doesn't want to speak. I would like to inform you, Mr Secretary of State, that you will have a total period of 15 minutes for your speech and closing in the course of any debate. I would like to inform this House that the designated Committee on Culture has not presented a rapporteur. The speeches will now take place in the time frame on the agenda, which will also appear on the billboard. I will also inform the House that there is no possibility of two-minute speeches during the debate. I ask my fellow Members who would like to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Member István Szabadi of the Group of our country. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-05-22-196	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear House, As Minister of Police, the motto of the Minister of the Interior in the field of education is that there should be order and discipline, as well as learning and peace. It seems that this is the way for them, with the status law to be introduced in public education, that is certainly what you want to achieve, Minister. In order to regulate teachers, it would introduce a different legal status instead of a civil servant status, significantly restrict the autonomy of teachers and educators and prohibit teachers from criticising the state of public education. In VET, this transformation took place three years ago with the entry into force of the new VET Act, and from January 2020 it significantly changed the system of Hungarian VET. The aim of the transformation of vocational education and training was to restore the prestige of secondary vocational education and training to a German model, which was published in 2011. At that time, the duration of vocational training was shortened to three years and, by lowering the age of compulsory education, the weakest students were pushed out of education and moved towards the public work programme. From the school year 2016/2017, the government changed the name of former skilled workers to a vocational secondary school and the name of vocational secondary schools to a vocational high school, but there was no change in substance. In the meantime, while the number of students in high school has steadily increased, the number of students in both programmes of vocational training has decreased, due also to early secondary school leaving. Based on the collection of data from the Assembly Information Service, 135,000 students studied in vocational training in the 2009/2010 academic year, 273,000 students studied in vocational secondary schools. Ten years later, for the 2020/2021 school year, this figure was reduced to 70,000 and 178 thousand, which means a reduction of 50 and 35 percent. This bill seeks to examine ex post the entry into force of the new vocational training law and system. We do, however, miss the fact that the results of the systemic impact assessment are not included in the bill, so we do not know how the new system fulfilled the preliminary expectations. In addition, on the basis of the indications of professional interest representatives, the portfolio did not provide for the possibility of direct consultation not only for trade unions but also for the institutions concerned. We do not agree that social consultation did not apply to detail rules, although most of the time the regulations contain substantive amendments. The problem is that the detailed rules are not only missing from the present bill, but the implementation of the new vocational training law in force from January 2020 is not fully regulated. What are we thinking? Based on the expertise received by our party, there are problems with the implementation of dual training. Vocational training jobs, despite their involvement in training, continue to pursue their activities on the basis of their own ideas, and do not adapt to the expectations that the vocational training institution expects of students, thus there is no consistency between theory and practice. Students learn in an extremely high number of hours, yet they don't get full knowledge. In dual training places, students are paid quasi-wage, in exchange for which employers expect them to work on a continuous basis. One day a week's exercise is completely inappropriate, and this exercise has proved it perfectly. Schools have solved this situation by completing the number of hours required for practical training in a row since the end of April, but until April, theoretical subjects were taught in a weekly scale. The dual management of vocational education and training is also objectionable: public knowledge training falls under the Ministry of Interior and vocational training is managed by the Ministry of Culture and Innovation, and therefore the coordination of theoretical and practical training is not consistent with each other, according to the instructors there is no effective cooperation between the two portfolios. At the entry into force of the new system, students will be in the third year of the 2022/2023 academic year, or the 11th grade. In vocational training institutions, former vocational training has traditionally worked well, and the problem is the newly created technical training. [[17.50]] There is much uncertainty, the details of the implementation of the law introduced three years ago are still not worked out. The 11th grade students don't know how they're gonna graduate next year, how long they're gonna go to school, until May or the end of the school year. In the 12th grade, Hungarian, mathematics and history of three subjects of public knowledge will be awarded an advanced degree. It's unlikely that they'll be doing a special graduation because of them, and they'll probably be doing a written graduation with the others in May. But then what about practical training, how will they prepare for oral graduation? All in all, therefore, the GED and VET regulations are not in line with each other. It seems they didn't even think about these two ministries, because during pre-school training, teachers were only informed that graduation was far from over. The situation is exacerbated by the fact that from 2024 a new graduation policy is expected, which is likely to result in a tightening of the examination, but there is no evidence of preparation. In addition, we do not agree that if, after completing three years of vocational training, a person decides to graduate, the two-year graduate can no longer do so in daytime education. With the entry into force of the new VET Act, teachers have ceased their status as civil servants. The government justified the change of legal relationship by the fact that the main obstacle to flexible work organisation and wage increases was public service relations. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] My time is up, thank you very much, and I'll pick it up next time for two minutes. Thank you.
u2023-05-22-197	There is no two-minute speech in this genre, but I ask my technical staff not to take the six minutes from the Fidesz time frame, but from the time frame of our country. It is fortunate that I am watching the events, so accordingly you cannot speak on this subject today, Congressman, I am sorry. I am asking my fellow Members, who would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Balázs Zoltán Hankó, State Secretary, if he would like to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2023-05-22-198	[[His mic won't say.]] Mr President, As I said in the general debate in my expo, this bill...
u2023-05-22-199	I'm sorry, we can't hear the sound. I don't know if your card's in there. [[For signal:]] He's in. Then I'll need a moving microphone. Thank you very much. Time starts from here, please.
u2023-05-22-200	[[For portable microphones:]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, As I highlighted in the general debate in my expo, this bill helps to maintain a close link between vocational training and the economy, improves the functioning of the vocational training system in a flexible manner, maintain a training structure adapted to labour market needs and broaden vocational education in a dual vocational training system. At the same time, in the general debate, I have unfortunately found that some opposition representatives form their views on vocational training without even knowing the Vocational Training 4.0 strategy on which it is based. Let me therefore briefly describe the seven priorities of the strategy and its results. 1. It is necessary to increase the flexibility of the vocational training system in order to respond to rapidly changing economic needs. 2. It is necessary to provide an attractive, modern learning environment. 3. Teachers teaching vocational subjects should be supported by further training opportunities adapted to vocational training and should be given competitive income. 4. Career guidance should be made more effective. 5. We need to take decisive steps to reduce the rate of unskilled school leavers. 6. It is necessary to strengthen uniform sectoral competences and to strengthen important dual training to meet the needs of the economy. 7. The relationship between vocational training and higher education needs to be further strengthened in order to facilitate further education. So let's see what we've accomplished. A single sector-by-sector basic education has been introduced to ensure interoperability within the sector. What is more, they can learn the whole profession within the framework of dual training, where the right statement is that the content of dual training is determined jointly by the vocational school and the company. A XXI is on the way. 100th century program for the development of vocational training institutions; we have spent no less than 156 billion forints on the development of vocational education schools in recent years. A track-following structure for vocational training has been developed to help better career orientation with its data. From 2020 until today, teachers' wages have increased by 45 percent, and greater participation of professionals from the economy and the competition sector in vocational education has also become available. 5. [[Sic!]] The system of flexible learning paths, guidance, Dobbantó programme, workshop school has been introduced, which provides a dense safety net for disadvantaged, talented students to gain a job. The introduction of input and output competence measurements and the related special catching-up programmes will reduce the drop-off. As a result, 2021/2022. So between the two academic years, the drop was 8.6 percent. That was 12 to 13 percent a few years ago. 6. With its own legal background, the system of vocational training is on its own, creating closer cooperation with the economy. And the fact that this is so indicates that the number of adults studying in vocational training institutions is thus once again: adults studying in vocational training institutions in this year's academic year exceeds 57,000. 7. Finally, higher education and vocational training are supported and confirmed by the curriculum developed together with higher education institutions, so the training of qualified technicians works, and we know that from last year to this year, the number of candidates for higher education has increased by 74 percent, and 23 000 have applied to higher education instead of 13 thousand. In other words, it is safe to say that the experience of the period since 2020 shows that educators, pupils and their parents have become familiar with the new system and that everyone is positive about the transformation of vocational training. This is also shown by the fact that, according to the recent application data from primary school, the techniques giving the profession and graduation at the same time took up 43% of the applicants, thus overtaking 34 375 students, i.e. all other types of school. I should also point out that, in the general debate, we are proud of the increase in the number of ecclesiastical educational institutions as opposed to some opposition speakers. In many areas of vocational training, institutions with different religious reservations have long been present, in the social sector, in the health field, and even in the field of technical training. They do excellent, high-quality professional work. I would also like to point out that they also play a significant role in preventing early school leaving by providing access to the profession in several cases, especially for disadvantaged students. Dear Parliament, Thank you for the broad support received from the elements of the bill. However, given that the general debate has taken place in the light of the figures, allow me to share some data in this regard and to disperse some distorting misconceptions, which clearly contradicts the errors of trade unions. 1. The number of hours taught in vocational training institutions has not decreased. In fact, the number of instructors has not decreased either, as the number of instructors has increased compared to the previous year, according to the October 22 data, at present 28 016. 2. Ninety-nine percent of the educated students have special educational needs, 14 percent in vocational education schools, 5 percent in technicians, i.e. development teachers, social workers, mental health professionals and school psychologists working in the vocational training institution, ensure that the number of SNI students per professional is 9-10 students in accordance with the national standard of education, i.e. vocational training does play its part in integration tasks, and the system of these flexible learning paths also serves this purpose. [[18.00]] False claim about the information on competence measurements for vocational education and training that 75 percent of pupils are insufficiently performing. On the other hand, the fact is that the official measurements made by the National Vocational Training and Adult Education Office in 22 last year show that 13.5 percent of young people starting their professional studies need to be developed in mathematics. Because we measure everything, we have accurate data and an accurate strategy for action. 4. In the general debate, contrary to what opposition representatives have indicated, the real statement is that the number of IT teachers working in vocational training has increased over the past period, exceeding 2,500 people, so IT education is provided at a high level in all vocational training institutions, and I could provide a great deal of information on how well the implementation of the Vocational Training 4.0 strategy is progressing. In view of the fact that, contrary to the Member's statement, we are constantly consulting the representatives of vocational training organisations, this is what the Vocational Training Innovation Council, the proposals that we have formulated in this bill, are formulated precisely by the organisers, participants and stakeholders of vocational training. It is therefore difficult to understand why some Members do not see the medium-term development concept of the past period, which is a systematic organisation, step by step progress. While the dual training system was first strengthened in the early 2010s, from 2015 it became more effective and more adaptable to the institutional structure of vocational training, and then, as I mentioned, we introduced the Vocational Training 4.0 strategy, which provided an internal renewal of its content; vocational training became a separate, flexible education arm. There is therefore clear evidence of a mutually-based, staged development process, and, moreover, the results of national vocational training are recognised at international level. Evidence of this is that in international comparison, we are silver medalists in Europe based on the recent years since the order in the employment rate of pupils in secondary and post-secondary vocational education and training, with a performance above 90 per cent. I would also like to mention one more topic that was raised during the general debate, which was a question of the possibility of preparing for the post-professional graduation exam in vocational training. First of all, I would like to point out that this provision was introduced in 2020 three years ago, and, as I mentioned, because we measure everything, so we have accurate data on whether we have changed in the right direction. In the old system, three thousand people were crumbled in the last year, before graduation, in 2021 we launched this new system, and in 2023 4163 students applied for graduation, which was due to a significant reduction in early school leaving. Dear Parliament, Returning to the bill before you: 1. The proposal will help to strengthen dual training, increase opportunities by amending the framework for temporary vocational training contracts for shorter education stages, and will enable blocked education precisely to achieve theoretical and practical content. 2. The number of dual training sites in the agricultural, health and social areas may increase. 3. The proposal supports the broadening of adult participation in vocational training. 4. As a result of events, specialities and aspects related to the organisation of training as a whole, the schedule of the academic year and the teaching year may be regulated independently in vocational training. 5. The proposal makes it possible to organise education and professional programmes better adapted to local circumstances. 6. It contains appropriate fine-tuning for non-State institutional support providers adapted to the experience of the past period. 7. The proposal also refines the rules on vocational training for self-employed workers. In addition, the proposal broadens the scope for the organisation of the examination during the examination period up to 2025, and the legislative package includes the introduction of micro-certificates for lifelong learning and employability in the field of adult education. Dear House, I believe that, during the discussion of the draft law, everyone understood the purpose of fine-tuning change. Supporting the bill is also a resolution in favour of development, progress, which is a clear profit for our society and for all members of the economy in the long term, as the results achieved in recent years indicate. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-22-201	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, I would like to inform the House that we are at second reading in the debates. So I would ask everyone not to try to reopen or continue the general debate. The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain economic, asset management and postal legislation and the summary amendment proposal follow up. Government referral T/3778. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I now give the floor to Congressman Sándor Fazekas, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-05-22-202	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 18 May 2023, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/3778 amending the laws concerning certain economic, asset management and postal matters. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 25 votes in favour, 4 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, The bill on the table of this House is an amendment to the regulation function of the Minister for Economic Development, as well as to other laws to assist in the application of the law on state wealth management and economic law. On the basis of practical experience, the submission proposes to amend the law on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings, according to which, if the winding-up proceedings are made on the grounds of cancellation from the list of liquidators, the court shall, at the same time as the winding-up order, appoint a new insolvency. In accordance with the need for amendment made during the Legislative Committee procedure, it lays down a special rule concerning the deadline for the completion of the winding-up balance sheet in the event of a criminal creditor's claim to the winding-up proceedings pending under the general rules, in which case the winding-up balance sheet shall be drawn up after two years from the date of secondment of the public insolvency administrator. With regard to the amendment of the Postal Services Act, the increase in the digital awareness of the population, the widespread use of electronic information collection and the epidemiological period caused by Covid-19 have significantly changed consumer habits, which justified a review of the legislation on postal services. The purpose of the draft law is also to lay down provisions relating to compliance with the registration and reporting requirements laid down in the Law on the control of smoking of minors and retail trade in tobacco products for persons engaged in retail trade in tobacco products. In view of what has been said, I believe that the proposal contains provisions to be supported. I ask this House to accept the draft. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]] [[18.10]]
u2023-05-22-203	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask the rapporteur, Mr János Fónagy, Deputy Minister of State, if you would like to speak now. [[Dr. János Fónagy: No, thank you.]] He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. I would like to inform you, Mr Vice Minister, that there will be a total period of 15 minutes for speaking in the debate and for closing it. I would like to ask my fellow Members, because the designated Economic Committee has not set up a rapporteur, and now there are speeches by its Members, which do not allow a two-minute speech, and the timeframes are about to appear on the billboard that someone wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he'd like to keep a close. [[Dr. János Fónagy: Thank you, a short one, Mr. President.]] Yes, he does. Thank you very much. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-22-204	Thank you. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As my fellow Member has said, the purpose of the bill before you is to amend certain laws falling within the remit of the Minister for Economic Development and concerning its responsibilities. The amendment to the bankruptcy law, which falls within the scope of the economic law of the bill, updates and complements certain provisions of the law on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings. A minor amendment to the State Property Act is a provision for a clear identification of the entity exercising ownership rights over the state property, which facilitates interpretation of the law. The 2012 CLIX on postal services will be amended in the light of the increased digital maturity of the population and the changed consumer habits developed during the epidemiological period and maintained after the end of the emergency. Law. Dear House, The bill contains several provisions relating to the transfer of state wealth to various ecclesiastical, civil and other beneficiaries. In view of their contribution to public, primarily social, health and cultural tasks, beneficiaries of asset relief receive free ownership of state-owned real estate and movable property. The terms of the transfer are laid down in the provisions on the transfer, in several cases by imposing a disposal ban in favour of the Hungarian State in respect of the real estate to be transferred in order to ensure the continued provision of the task. Dear House, The bill concerns the 2012 CXXXIV on reducing smoking of young people and on the retail trade in tobacco products. It also contains provisions on the amendment of the Act: on the one hand, the legislation on the current field of data use regulated at regulation level and, on the other hand, on the other hand, in order to rationalise the division of government labour, state tasks under the law fall into the hands of the Minister appointed in the Government's decree for the provision of this task. During the parliamentary committee's work, the bill has been substantially amended on a number of points. Due to the change in the economic environment, increased involvement of the tobacco retail supplier is needed to reduce the risks to tobacco supply chain operators. The amendment will enable the tobacco retail supplier to assume further tasks in the tobacco supply chain, thereby guaranteeing security of supply. Dear House, The Commission's amendment in Parliament's decision-making introduced further codification and language-rights clarifications in the text of the standard text to establish linguistic and legal coherence. Thank you for the supporting work of the committee, which has contributed to clarifying, clarifying and supplementing the text of the bill from a professional point of view. Dear Parliament, In our view, the regulatory objectives set out in the bill can facilitate the simplification of the procedures of economic operators and the inclusion of existing practices in an appropriate framework. That is why I ask the Honourable Parliament that the T/3778. Please support bill No 1 and its summarised amendment. Thank you for your attention, Mr President, for your opportunity. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-05-22-205	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister, Secretary of State. Dear House, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws relating to the simplification of public utility services and the discussion of the summarised amendment are now in order. The government referral is T/3780. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. The rapporteur of the Committee on Legislative Affairs will be the first to speak in the debate. I give the floor to Dávid Héyj, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-05-22-206	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 18 May 2023, the Legislative Committee discussed T/3780 amending certain laws relating to the simplification of public utility services. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 28 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, The bill on the table of the House is in line with the government's objectives, which ensure the protection of citizens against the energy crisis, thus promoting the protection of Hungarian families and the functioning of Hungarian businesses. It is of the utmost importance that domestic utility services can be used by consumers easily and quickly, as well as by providing them with personal and online services. As regards public utility services, customers are primarily required to be able to use services safely and to conduct their affairs smoothly. These simple expectations are supported by a number of measures in the bill that has just been tabled. For example, the obligation to carry out on-the-spot checks in the event of a user change should be removed, while both the user and the service provider may continue to indicate the need and need for on-the-spot checks in the future. The legislative proposal also envisages simplifying a number of administrative rules so far. For example, if the customer announces the change of data to a public service, the service provider, if it simultaneously provides several public services to the customer, may transfer the change for all the public services it provides. The rules for overpayment will also be simplified, as by breaking down the artificial limits so far, all overpayments will be possible in the user's next accounts unless otherwise provided by the client. Dear House, In light of what has been said, I believe that the proposal submitted contains provisions to be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-05-22-207	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am now going to ask Mr Tuzson Bence, Secretary of State, on behalf of the rapporteur, whether he would like to speak now or only later in the debate or in the closing section. [[Bence Tuzson: Thank you, only at the end.]] I would like to inform you that you will have a total timeframe of 15 minutes. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Economic Committee. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. There's no way to make a two-minute speech. The timeframes have appeared on the board. I respectfully ask my fellow Members that someone wishes to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he'd like to make a final statement. [[For signal:]] Yeah. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-22-208	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I just want to say a few words briefly. Congressman has summarised the substance of this bill. I would like to thank my fellow Members for their support, which has also been given here in the debate. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-05-22-209	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform the House that the decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws relating to the simplification of the administration of families and the discussion of the summarised amendment are now in order. The government referral is T/3769. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. [[18.20]] The first part of the debate will be the presentation of the position of the Legislative Committee, which will be presented by Dávid Héjj, rapporteur of the Committee. With all due respect, Congressman. Here you go.
u2023-05-22-210	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 18 May 2023, the Legislative Committee discussed T/3769 amending certain laws relating to the simplification of the administration of families. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. It accepted by 30 votes in favour, no votes against, with 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The proposal before us is an amendment to the laws currently in force along the logic of making life easier for families. Among other things, the proposal aims to simplify the administration of families. This bill provides practical assistance to family support administrations, since after entitlement to the child care fee, i.e. after the child's child's death, childcare care, i.e. the child's child's allowance, is automatically determined for the parent who was entitled to the child's child benefit. It is worth simplifying for parents that, except in some exceptional cases, the parent or student may not be required to prove the status of student from 1 September 2023 until the end of the academic year in which the student reaches 16 years of age. After the school obligation has expired, the student can verify his/her/her status as a student with a valid student card until his/her higher education student status has ceased. In view of the change in the provisions of the Civil Code Act concerning the exercise of parental supervision, the proposal amends the 1998 LXXXIV on support for families. Law on 50-50 per cent of family allowances in order to allow one of the separate parents to submit an application for the distribution of family allowances. A further change that the biological father may qualify for maternity allowance may require maternity allowance if the mother dies before the application is made and the father takes care of the child. Dear House, In the light of what has been said, we can see that the government would ease the administration of families and public administrations with this bill, and that savings in administrative burdens could lead to a more favourable situation for customers, families and public authorities. That is why I think that the bill that has been tabled should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-22-211	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask Mr. Secretary of State Tuzson Bence, as rapporteur, if you would like to speak now. [[Not now.]] He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. I would like to inform you, Mr Secretary of State, that you will have a total period of 15 minutes to speak in the debate and closing words. I will also inform this House that the designated Committee on Welfare has not presented a rapporteur. It is now time for the speeches by its Members, which will not allow a two-minute speech. I would like to ask my fellow Members if someone would like to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I'll ask Secretary of State Tuzson Bence if he'd like to keep a close. [[Tuzson Bence: Yes.]] Yes, please, you have the floor.
u2023-05-22-212	Thank you very much. Our government is the government of families, the government that has been helping families and helping them in the past. This bill contains provisions which, although primarily administratively, further facilitate the administration of families. And indeed, as you said, Mr President, whether the transition between children and children has been facilitated, the simplified proof of student status, the simplification of the distribution of family allowances, or even the simplification of other subsidies, or the possibility of changes that are important for the biological father, changes that help the administration in many ways. Mr President, Mr President, you have summarised the importance of this legislation. Once again, I would like to thank my fellow Members for their contributions to the debate and for their contributions to the committees. Most of these comments have helped to make the legislation better, the functioning of families and their lives simpler. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support this bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-22-213	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. There is a debate on the Commission's reports on the proposal for an administrative recess and the summary amendment. The government referral is T/3760. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. The debate will be the first to hear the opinion of the Legislative Committee. I give the floor to Congressman Dávid Héyj, rapporteur of the committee. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-22-214	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 18 May 2023, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/3760 on Administrative Recess. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 25 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 8 abstentions. Dear Parliament, According to the bill before us, the government decree setting the date of the administrative break for the year shall be published no later than 15 December prior to the reference year, so that the date of the break may be taken into account in the planning of the year's leave. Freedom is intended to ensure the rest and recreation of government officials. In view of the fact that the buildings of government administrations are closed during the administrative break, significant savings are expected during the winter administrative break due to heating and the interruption of the operation of climate control during the summer administrative break. During the administrative break under the draft, the employer should not be required to replace government officials on leave. It should be noted that the bill concerns central and regional government administrations and persons employed in them. Dear House, According to the bill, the government can therefore order a summer or winter administrative break in its decree, so that the Government's decree on the order for administrative leave, as I said earlier, must be published by the 15th December of the year preceding the year in question. In view of what has been said, I believe that the proposal submitted should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-22-215	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask Mr Miklós Panyi as rapporteur that he would like to speak now. [[Dr. Miklós Panyi: Not now.]] He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. I would like to inform you, Mr Secretary of State, that you will have a total timeframe of 15 minutes for discussion and closing. Dear House, I would like to inform my fellow Members that the designated Justice Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. No two-minute speeches are possible. The timeframes appeared on the billboard. I ask my fellow Members that someone would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State if you'd like to make a closing statement. [[Dr. Miklós Panyi: Yes.]] Yes, please, you have the floor.
u2023-05-22-216	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for the support of Congressman Dávid Héyj. As has been said, this is an amendment that has passed a good test at the end of last year, provides predictability for the public administration, saves costs, guarantees the right of government officials to rest, and also guarantees the customer rights of Hungarian citizens and the smooth functioning of the public administration. I also think it is important to point out that, prior to the submission of the bill, there were extensive consultations with trade unions at the Civil Service Stakeholder Forum. I therefore call on the honourable Parliament to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
u2023-05-22-217	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws to the status of President of the Republic and the discussion of the summarised amendment follow. The government referral is T/3759. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. The debate will be the first to present the opinion and position of the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the rapporteur of which is Mr Dávid Héjj. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-05-22-218	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 18 May 2023, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/3759 on the amendment of certain laws in relation to the status of the President of the Republic. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 25 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 7 abstentions. [[18.30]] Dear Parliament, Article 9 (3) (m) of the Fundamental Law gives the President of the Republic the power to set up his office in the light of his special role within the State Organisation and the specific features of his duties. The aim of the bill is to enable the President of the Republic to effectively exercise the right of organisation under the Fundamental Law when establishing the management structure and organisational and operational arrangements of the Sándor Palace. Given that the name of the President of the Republic is Sándor Palace, the bill also introduces amendments of a corresponding legal nature. This means that the bill before us amends, among other things, the law on national security services, the law on travel abroad, the law on public finances, the law on the use of Hungary's coat of arms and flag, and the law on state awards, the law on the legal status of soldiers, the law on the service of professional staff of law enforcement bodies, and the law on defence and the Hungarian Defence Act. The bill also amends the Act on the status of President of the Republic in some other subjects, including, for example, on the basis of practical experience, it sets out the most basic rules on the status of President of the Republic elected, sworn but not yet in office. Dear House, The amendment to the Act on the status and remuneration of the President of the Republic is fully in line with the regulatory logic of the Act on bodies with special status and should therefore be supported by the proposal submitted. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2023-05-22-219	I ask Mr Miklós Panyi, Secretary of State, as rapporteur, if you would like to speak now. [[For signal:]] I would like to inform you once again that you will have a period of 15 minutes to speak in the debate and in the closing section. I am now informing the House that the designated Justice Committee has not presented a rapporteur. Accordingly, there will be speeches by Members, between which a two-minute speech is not possible. I would like to ask my fellow Members if someone would like to speak in the time frame that has been published. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I'm asking Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Miklós Panyi, if you'd like to make a closing statement. [[For signal:]] There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-22-220	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Thank you, Mr Dávid Heyj, for your support and for the presentation of the amendments. Respect for the Presidential institution in the Republic must go beyond political debate. The proposed amendments stem from the fundamental freedom of the institution, organisation and use of names of the President of the Republic, and some of the amendments are of a technical nature. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-22-221	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear House, Now I'm ordering a recess for 18 hours and 45 minutes. (Sunning: 18.38 18.46 President: Dr. János Latorcai Note: Dr. Winner Vinnai and Sándor Szabó)
u2023-05-22-222	Welcome, fellow Members. I would like to inform Mr Kósa that the date in the information booklets is not worth taking into account. So what we know is that in the statement prepared by the Office, when it is expected to take place, it always depends on when the previous item is to be completed. So if Congressman's ready, we should get started. [[Lajos Kósa: Sure.]] Thank you very much. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws in the context of cooperatives and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow. Presentation by our fellow Members Lajos Kósa, István Vitányi and László Vécsey Fidesz T/3753. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Csaba the Great, the rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-05-22-223	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 18 May 2023, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/3753 on the amendment of certain laws in the context of cooperatives. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 24 votes in favour, 7 votes against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The general objective of the legislative amendment before us is to promote business in the form of a cooperative in Hungary. These provisions support the further development and efficiency of the cooperative sector. The bill focuses on the practical needs of existing cooperatives, helping them to function effectively compared to so far. The amendment tabled and adopted by the Legislative Committee mainly contains additional provisions. The purpose of the amendment is to provide the government with a regulation laying down general rules for the use of the fund of the school cooperative, thereby extending the objectives for which the aid can be used. Dear House, Given what has been said, I believe that the bill before us should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2023-05-22-224	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now ask Mr Lajos Kósa, on behalf of the authors, that he wishes to speak now. [[Lajos Kósa indicates his intention to speak.]] I would like to inform you, honourable Member, that you have a total time frame of 15 minutes for your current speech, for your further speech in the debate and for your closing. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-22-225	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Some of the amendments are basically more of a language-place change. It is now possible to argue about it, because I can't exactly follow the position of the MTA's spelling workshop on the need to write capital letters or lowercase letters in the list of paragraphs, but now the lower letter has won. I'll take that. I was still working on what had to be written in capital letters after the serial number, the terms in the list. Of course, I accept, in the case of school cooperatives, that the government establishes in a regulation the way in which the Community fund for training and recreational purposes is used. I also think it is particularly good to have a solution that, in the case of a founding member of a three-member cooperative, makes such a strip regulation regarding the need for President of the Board of Directors or not to be Chairman of the Board of Directors. I accept these, because this is all in the interest of improving, and I am very pleased to note that the parties to the debate and the authors of the amendment have been constructive in this proposal. I hope that Parliament will also support this when voting. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-05-22-226	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you, honourable Member, that, overall, you have a timeframe of 13 minutes and 28 seconds. I would like to ask you now that you wish to speak on behalf of the government, Mr Répássy Róbert, Deputy Minister of State. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Yes.]] Here you go. [[18.50]]
u2023-05-22-227	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear tableds, The Government supports the text of the bill, supplemented by a summary amendment. I'm asking for your support. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-22-228	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you, Mr Secretary of State, that you will have 14 minutes and 46 seconds to speak in the debate. I would like to inform this House that the designated Justice Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now time for the speeches by its Members, during which there is no two-minute speech. The timeframes appeared on the billboard. I ask my fellow Members, who wish to speak in a time frame. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Róbert Répássy, Deputy Minister of State, on behalf of the Government, to speak in the remaining timeframe. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. I will now ask Mr Lajos Kósa to speak. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. The Commission's reports on the amendment of Act C of 2012 on the Criminal Code and the discussion of the summary amendment are now in order. The presentation submitted by our colleague Máté Kocsis, János Halász, Lajos Kósa, István Vitányi, László Vécsey Fideszes and Lőrinc Nacsa KDNP T/3755. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate if the rapporteur is present. I give the floor to Csaba the Great, the rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-05-22-229	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 18 May 2023, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/3755 amending the 2012 Criminal Code Act. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 23 votes in favour, 8 votes against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The bill before us is a provision supporting freedom of the press. The prosecution of journalists has given rise to abuses, vendettas and has so far been an opportunity. The exception of this criminal instrument is a relief for both the State and the victim. This provision is in line with the unanimous position of the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights, and with the Fundamental Law, which states that Hungary recognises and protects the freedom and diversity of the press, it provides the conditions for free information necessary for the development of democratic public opinion. Criminal law is only considered as a last resort, i.e. criminal proceedings can only take place if instruments other than criminal law are not available. Criminal threats are far more disproportionate than others, putting the journalist on the same level as the law enforcement criminals. The amendment tabled and adopted by the Legislative Committee contains technical specifications. Dear House, Overall, the criminal policy path to dealing with possible abuse is unnecessary. That could easily be replaced by effective press and civil litigation practices. Given what has been said, I believe that the bill before us should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-22-230	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, As the rapporteur for the presentation of the minority opinion is not present in the Chamber, this is not said. Dear Parliament, I am now going to ask Mr Lajos Kósa, as rapporteur, if you would like to speak now. [[For signal:]] Yeah. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-22-231	Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, The amendment of the Legislative Committee is indeed legal, so it is fully acceptable. This is not why I am speaking, but I am only speaking because of the fact that what has been said here in this debate has shown that we have initiated something terrible here, although the decriminalisation of political debates is a very old story and a rather old endeavour of the Hungarian Parliament. My fellow Member, Tamás Isépy, who was also a fellow member of the bench, was very proud of him here in Parliament, constantly urged, as former Secretary of State for Justice, and then, as opposition, that, by the way, the criminal code could be or should be excluded from political debates, because sooner or later everyone ends up in court. And by the way, with these cases, the courts don't really know what to do, and the fact is, in particular, that if the opposition representative points to some maladministration, some problem, and we take out the journalist in that case. Now, if this bill is initiated by the opposition, we will simply support it. I can't understand why they didn't do this anyway, because this is more in the interest of the opposition than of the ruling parties. But we have also listened to European organisations dealing with similar issues and guidelines, and that is why we have put this forward. It best describes the situation; we heard everything here: a wine steam dictatorship, a terrible brown shirt and black booty crowds knocking on the cat's stone and all kinds of wild things, but it was so important to the opposition that the dog was not here from the opposition. So they told us about the big horse-zung, and then we left it at that. However, we would like to talk about our joy and say that this is once again an important step: we need to decriminalise politics. Politics belongs here. Another question is that it doesn't work some kind of self-control or some style, but style is man. I think it's not our job, it's our job. And every four years, voters say what they think. They told me now. We accept that. Thank you very much. We'll get back to work. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-22-232	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform you that you will have a timeframe of 12 minutes and 15 seconds for the rest of the debate and the closing hours. I now ask Mr Répássy Róbert, Deputy Secretary of State, that he wishes to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Yeah. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-22-233	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear tableds, The government supports the amended bill, supplemented by a summary amendment, and I ask you to support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-22-234	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to inform you that, overall, you will have 14 minutes and 40 seconds in the debate. I would like to inform this House that the designated Justice Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now time for the speeches by its Members, which will not allow a two-minute speech. The debate takes place in a time frame, the timeframes are visible to all of us on the two billboards. I ask who wishes to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. On behalf of the government, I would like to ask Mr Róbert Répássy, Deputy Minister of State, if you would like to close. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Kósa, on behalf of the rapporteur, if he would like to make a closing statement. [[No signal.]] He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. I would like to inform the House that the decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. The 2009 CLV on the protection of classified information now follows. Act CXII of 2011 on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Proposal submitted by the Committee on Justice T/3676. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. Now, this House, the position of the Legislative Committee, will be presented, but before I give the floor to Csaba Nagy, the rapporteur of the committee, I thank you for your cooperation and I give the chair to Vice-President Dóra Dúró. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[The chair is occupied by Dóra Dúró, Vice-President of the Parliament.]]
u2023-05-22-235	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 18 May 2023, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2009 CLV on the protection of classified information. Act CXII of 2011 on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information. T/3676. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. pursuant to Rule 26 of the Rules of Procedure, adopted by 26 votes to three, with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill is the 2009 CLV on the protection of classified information. Act CXII of 2011 on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information. Amendment to the Act in order to allow the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information to carry out the most extensive surveillance procedure under Chapter 33 of the Act on the Right of Information Self-determination and Freedom of Information. Based on the official working experience of the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, the Committee informed the Judicial Committee, which is the author of the draft law, that in its operational experience it had encountered the situation that, where a request for data in the public interest was made for data contained in a document with a special repeated rating mark and that, in relation to such data, it could not carry out the confidentiality monitoring procedure, taking into account that, according to the interpretation of the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, the confidentiality supervision procedure could only be carried out against the rating provider, because it could not be subject to a repeater of the rating. [[Sic!]] The proposal aims to regulate as widely as possible the situation in the activities of the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information. The proposal also includes a transitional provision for the application of the new extended legislation in ongoing procedures, helping to ensure the rights of data seekers and the highest degree of freedom of information available. Dear House, The amendment tabled and adopted by the Legislative Committee contains clarifications. The amendment was amended by T/3759 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the status of President of the Republic. Technical clarification aimed at achieving consistency with the provisions of bill No 1. In view of this, the proposal before us must be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-22-236	I welcome my fellow Members and ask the rapporteur if he would like to speak. Congressman Imre Vejkey, as chairman of the Justice Committee, I give you the floor.
u2023-05-22-237	Madam President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The primary objective of the bill before us is to allow the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information to carry out the procedure for the supervision of secrets in the case of a given rating. On the basis of its experience with the application of the law, the authority itself initiated the amendment with us, the Committee on Justice, which accepted the arguments and, on this basis, submitted the bill. Ladies and Gentlemen, I do not wish to repeat what the rapporteur of the Committee on Legislative Affairs has already described in detail, but I would like to point out that we are at the end of the debates in Parliamentary negotiations, and I am convinced that the bill eliminates all legal gaps in the application of the law, i.e. the fact that the repeater of the rating marking appears as a client in the proceedings, and that the work of the law enforcement bodies can also become more effective. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, I ask that you support the bill tabled by the Committee on Justice. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-22-238	Thank you. I would like to inform the President of the Commission that he has 13.5 minutes for further speeches in the debate. I ask you to speak on behalf of the government, Secretary of State Répássy. [[For signal:]] It indicates you're taking the opportunity. Here you go.
u2023-05-22-239	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Parliament, Dear Mr President, The Government supports the text of the bill, supplemented by a summary amendment. I would also ask you to support the adoption of the law. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-22-240	If the Secretary of State still wishes to speak, he has 14.5 minutes left in the debate. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I'll ask if someone would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I ask that on behalf of the Government, Mr State Secretary wishes to speak again. [[For signal:]] He doesn't wish, he signals. I'll ask the author if he'd like to take the opportunity. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Congressman. Imre Vejkey has the floor.
u2023-05-22-241	Madam President, I would just like to say that I would ask my fellow Members once again to support the bill tabled by the Committee on Justice. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-22-242	I would like to inform my fellow Members that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of electoral procedural rules to electronic administration and the summary amendment proposal follow up. The government referral is T/3777. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Fazekas, rapporteur of the committee, within a 15-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2023-05-22-243	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 18 May 2023, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/3777 amendment of electoral procedural rules in relation to electronic administration. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 21 votes in favour, 7 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, The bill before us ensures the smooth conduct of upcoming municipal and European Parliament elections and facilitates the effective exercise of suffrage and right of appeal. The necessary amendments to align the two elections will bring the e-administration law and the electoral procedure law into line with the requests for roll-lists, and will simplify the exercise of the law of voters and reduce the administrative burden of election offices. [[19.10]] The Legislative Committee adopted three amendments containing codification clarifications and additions. The first amendment sets out who can draw up a compensatory list in municipal elections. The amendment would give rise to the right of the nominating organisation which has nominated at least two thirds of the single constituencies. This provision is also true for parliamentary elections, so it can be said that there will be a single set of compensation lists in the municipal elections and in the parliamentary elections. The second amendment provides for empty mandates. This amendment will help to ensure that Parliament is operational at a time when interim elections are no longer possible. In a period of one year before the elections, it is of particular importance that the composition of the body in the representative bodies of the people change as little as possible in accordance with the will of the electorate. It is therefore necessary that the vacant seat be obtained by the candidate on the national list of that party. The essential need for the third amendment proposal is to bring the ban on the dissolution of the body of representatives into line with the interim electoral moratorium until there is an interim election. There are rules in this amendment. Dear House, In view of what has been said, I would like to ask you to support T/3777. Bill No. 1. The Fidesz Group supports its adoption. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-22-244	I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Secretary Robert Répássy. Here you go.
u2023-05-22-245	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, I would like to briefly describe the main points of the summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee. The proposal standardises the moratorium on the establishment of an interim election, so that the interim election of Members of Parliament, the interim election of representatives of local governments and mayors and the interim election of representatives of national self-governments cannot be set for the period between 1 April of the year preceding the general election and the day of each general election. I note that this almost one-year rule is the practice of a moratorium in many European states, such as France, the Czech Republic and Romania. In this context, the proposal will help to ensure that Parliament and the bodies of representatives are also operational during the moratorium period, as it is particularly important that the composition of the body in the bodies of popular representation be changed as little as possible in accordance with the will of the voters, so it is necessary to provide for the possibility of obtaining the mandate by the candidate nominated by the party on the national list or on the compensation list in the event of the termination of the mandate of the individual constituency representative who has been appointed as the candidate of the party. The proposal also provides for a standardization of the criteria for the nomination of the compensation list, so, like the parliamentary elections, the compensation list for the election of local government representatives and mayors in Budapest, the nominating organisation that has nominated for at least two thirds of the settlement's single constituencies and in the capital district will be entitled to submit a compensation list in Budapest. In addition, I think it is necessary to point out that the bill itself was also discussed by the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, during which the points raised in the general debate of the bill were also resolved, and that there was a possibility for further discussion on some issues for the future. Dear House, Honourable Members, I think it's important to say again that T/3777. Legislative proposal No. 1 mainly includes amendments made by the National Election Office to renew and extend the e-Accessibility toolbox. The aim of the bill is, in summary, to modernise the electoral procedure and to facilitate administration for both customers and electoral bodies. I ask this House to support the bill. Thank you.
u2023-05-22-246	I would like to inform the Secretary of State that he will have 11 minutes and 50 seconds later in the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now time for the speakers to be announced. In this context, Imre Ritter is speaking to a German national representative, the rapporteur of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, who is involved in the debate, who presents the first sentences of his speech in the language of nationality, and then translates them into Hungarian. Here you go.
u2023-05-22-247	[[???Köszönöm. Sehr geehrte Frau Vorsitzende! Sehr geehrtes Parlament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt bezüglich der Gesetzesentwurf mit Nr. T/3777 Über die Änderung der Wahlverfahrensregeln im Zusammenhang mit der elektronischen Verwaltung erörtere.???]] Madam President, Dear House, Allow me to express our position on behalf of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities at T/3777. on the draft law amending electoral procedural rules in relation to electronic administration. At the meeting of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities on 10 May 2023, as a committee related to the debate, the House Rules of Decision 44-45. It held a detailed discussion of the bill on the basis of Article 5 of the Act. The committee of the bill is set out in HSZ 32. Having examined its provisions under paragraph 2 of Article 44 of the Rules of Procedure, it concluded that they complied with the rules of the House of Decisions. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. No amendments were tabled to the bill, and the Committee did not intend to make any further amendments, so the Committee did not submit a Commission amendment closing a detailed debate. We have not tabled a legislative amendment, despite the fact that we raised three substantive points during the parliamentary debate on 3 May 2023: On the one hand, the need to align the bill with the 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities by the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities. Law 56. With regard to Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, pending amendments to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Secondly, we raised the Act on Election Procedure 179. § (1) to reconsider and amend paragraph 1 so that it can be clearly demonstrated and verified how many ballot papers the voter has actually received. Thirdly, we initiated a date for the deadline of registration and the elimination of the current anti-national discrimination in the register of nationalities, including in the course of the parliamentary elections. After the general debate, I personally and e-mailed Dr. Répássy Róbert, Deputy Minister of State, and thank you for your positive attitude, and then we also consulted Dr. László Péter Salgó State Secretary on the telephone and in writing from the Ministry of Justice. As a result of the negotiations, first of all Njtv 56. § 3 is accepted for the sake of coherence, together with the amendment of the Njtv. bill expected to be submitted by our committee on 5 June 2023 to the full 56. § 1 is being revised. Secondly, we will conduct further discussions with the National Election Office and the Ministry of Justice, so that the number of ballot papers passed to the elector during the electoral procedure can be clearly determined and verified. [[19.20]] This will hopefully be manageable under the implementing regulation. Thirdly, further discussions will also be held on setting a date for registration and registration, including for parliamentary elections. But given that this will not affect the local and national elections in 2024 but the parliamentary elections in 2026, we will still have the opportunity and opportunity to amend this in the autumn of 2024 or in the spring of 2025. In the light of all of this and on the basis of this, the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities decided that T/3777 was to be a member of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities. No amendment to the legislative proposal on the agenda is now tabled, agreed with the bill and proposed to Parliament to adopt it. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit! [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-22-248	Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute speech during the debate. Congressman Imre Vejkey, from the KDNP faction, asked for a normal word. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2023-05-22-249	Madam President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As the Justice Committee of Parliament and the Member of the Legislative Committee, who has just been heard, have also said that we, as well as the KDNP faction, are in favour of T/3777. This bill is very important, as the German minority advocate said, because it contains the amendments made by NTI. In addition to the above, it standardises the rules on interim elections, the KDNP considers this to be extremely important, as well as the unification of the system of nomination of the compensation list, and all that Mr Ritter also expressed and supported by his committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-22-250	I would like to ask that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. Mr. Secretary of State indicates that you are not taking advantage of this opportunity. In that case, I would like to inform my fellow Members that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of the laws on judicial matters and the discussion of the summary amendment follow up. The government referral is T/3776. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Fazekas in a 15-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2023-05-22-251	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 18 May 2023, the Legislative Committee discussed T/3776 on the amendment of the laws on the subject of justice. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 28 votes in favour, 7 votes against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, The bill before us has a number of implications for the regulation of judicial and private law areas concerning professional and certain civil proceedings, criminal substantive and procedural law, criminal law and enforcement law, as well as for the joint management of copyright rights, as well as amendments in the field of competition law. In view of the fact that the proposal concerns a number of laws on judicial matters, the amendment tabled and adopted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs is also extensive. I would like to highlight from the amending proposal the provision aimed at improving the effectiveness of dispute settlements relating to construction contracts, one of the legal guarantees of which is the establishment of an expert body for certification of performance. This institution is of particular importance in the light of the labour and capacity shortages currently affecting the Hungarian construction industry and in the foreseeable future, as well as the increase in the price of raw materials. In the vast majority of cases, the expert opinion prepared by the certification body provides an effective solution for resolving possible disputes. I would also like to highlight the amendment concerning notaries, which aims to clarify the norm, since it is currently unclear what constitutes a justified case. Thus, there is a possibility that the notary's competence may be challenged subsequently by the party, and therefore, even years later, the documents may be invalidated on this basis. This constitutes an unjustified threat to legal certainty and public confidence in notaries' procedures. If the deputy notary is entitled to take action by his office in the area of neighbouring competence by the Presidency of the Chamber of Territorial Affairs with a decision approving the replacement agreement or, failing that, with a decision on secondment, the competence shall no longer be contested. Dear House, In view of what has been said, I would like to ask you to support T/3776. Bill No. 1. On behalf of the Fidesz Group, we support its adoption. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-22-252	I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[For signal:]] Mr. Secretary of State indicates you're taking the opportunity. I give the floor to Secretary Robert Répássy. Here you go.
u2023-05-22-253	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, T/3776 on the amendment of laws on judicial matters In the detailed debate, the Legislative Committee made several changes in terms of terminology and technology. In addition, it is appropriate to highlight some changes that may be considered meaningful. Allow me to discuss these in more detail. The proposed amendment to the Public Prosecutor's Law complements the measures that may be applied by the prosecutor to monitor the legality of the enforcement of the legal disadvantage laid down by law, and establishes a time limit for the assessment of the submission of detention complaints. The amending proposal for the Law on the enforcement of penalties, measures, certain coercive measures and infringement detention lays down a special rule of jurisdiction for the conduct of judicial review against a more stringent initial classification, which allows for a proportionate distribution of the burden. The amending proposal also clarifies the cases in which the inmate's risk analysis is conducted by the Central Institute of Investigation and Methodology. Madam President, Dear House, In addition to the Act on the Prohibition of unfair market conduct and restriction of competition, it is intended to provide for the possibility of negotiating the competition council acting through an electronic communications network, in order to ensure the smooth and undisturbed conduct of the hearing in the event of exceptional situations. The amendment of the law on company disclosure, court proceedings and winding-up makes it clear that court-martial court non-court proceedings include non-court proceedings relating to the cross-border transformation, merger and division of capital companies, as well as the provision of court-martials, measures to the company-court IT system and disclosures. This also makes it clear that part of the administrative and IT system that assists business court work and provides a wide range of business registration systems is part of cross-border operations. [[19.30]] On the basis of the amendment to the Order for Payment Act, the Act on General Rules for Electronic Administration and Trust Services makes electronic delivery mandatory for those who are obliged to do so in the order for payment procedure, as, in principle, it is mandatory in all other procedures. Similarly, in the European order for payment procedure, the electronic route becomes mandatory for parties with a company gate, which is also provided for in the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a European order for payment procedure. Dear Parliament, In addition to the amendment to the Act on Parliament, the provision to ensure the provision of the activities of its representatives is transferred within the law, but it does not substantially modify it, since the provision of these benefits and assets is actually linked not to the offices, but to the person and activity of the representative and his representatives. The amendment also provides for powers which may be delegated to the deputy group leader. The activity directly linked to the cultural activities of the Office of Parliament is the publishing of books, which includes the publication of other publications in electronic or printed form. The amendment is intended to record this at the statutory level. Publications produced by the Office or produced under an undertaking contract shall constitute public property, the sale or free transfer of which shall be subject to the 2007 CVI on State Property. The provisions of law shall apply. Dear Parliament, The rules of action in the public interest relating to unfair general contractual clauses are set out in the Civil Code Act 6:105. § 2 of the Act. Although the Civic College of the Supreme Court is 3/2011. In its PK opinion, it held that, in the event of an action of general interest, the nullity of the clause which becomes part of the consumer contract should also be established, even if the clause is null and void for reasons other than unfairness, the case law of the courts in this regard is not uniform. According to the reasoning of the PK opinion cited, the unfair standard contract term used in the consumer contract also conflicts with legislation and is therefore or for other reasons null and void. However, only those who have a legal interest in or are expressly empowered by the law to do so may bring proceedings in order to determine the nullity of the contract. At the same time, the more effective exercise of consumer rights would be served if the person entitled to bring an action of general interest could also, for reasons other than unfairness, propose that the general terms and conditions of the contract be void, where appropriate, in the same procedure in which he also requests the finding of unfairness. Thus, regardless of the title on which the application for an action is made, the application of the unlawful general contractual condition could be prevented. The unfairness of a given general contractual term may not be established, but for other reasons it is invalid. In these cases, it was also justified to allow an action of general interest to be brought in order to complete consumer protection. In addition to the above, the amendment to the Arbitration Act should be mentioned. One of the legal guarantees for the effectiveness of dispute settlements relating to construction contracts is the establishment of a certification expert body. This institution is of particular importance for the Hungarian construction industry. In the vast majority of cases, the expert opinion prepared by the certification body provides an effective solution for resolving possible disputes. On this basis, it was justified to properly integrate this legal institution into the rules of arbitration proceedings and to have a legal consequence to avoid it. Madam President, Dear House, In conclusion, allow me to reiterate the following: the bill seeks to incorporate into the provisions of the laws concerned the needs that have been raised in practice in a way supported by professional representation bodies. The amendments also contribute to adapting the laws to changing technical, economic and social conditions and to maintaining the consistency of the various laws. I ask this House, with its vote in favour, to contribute to the adoption of the bill. Thank you for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-22-254	I would like to inform the Secretary of State that you will have 6 minutes 35 seconds for the rest of the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. [[For signal:]] First, I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey in a normal time frame. Here you go.
u2023-05-22-255	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As Chairman of the Committee on Justice, I would like to inform Parliament that the Committee on Justice itself has supported the proposed bill. The TAB made substantive and technical changes to the submitted bill. Mr Répássy Róbert has just explained this in detail, and I do not wish to repeat this. Ladies and Gentlemen, The KDNP faction supports the bill, please support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-22-256	I would like to ask my fellow Members that, in the remaining timeframes, someone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I will ask the author how he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[Dr. Répássy, Robert: No, thank you very much.]] Secretary of State says he doesn't want to. In that case, I will inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, It follows the discussion of the legislative report and the proposal for amendment to the Act on Complaints, Notifications of Public Interest and Rules on Abuse sent back for consideration by the President of the Republic, adopted on 11 April 2023. The text of the Act sent to the President of the Republic for signature is T/3089/12. Letter from the President of the Republic to T/3089/13. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Sándor Fazekas, rapporteur of the committee, within a 15-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2023-05-22-257	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 18 May 2023, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/3089/12 on complaints, announcements of general interest and rules on whistleblowers. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution 46. By 25 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 4 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The President of the Republic did not agree with the Act on Complaints, Notifications of Public Interest and Rules on Abuse adopted by the Parliament on 11 April 2023, signed and sent by the President of the National Assembly, received at the Sándor Palace on 16 April 2023, exercising the powers set out in Article 6 (5) of the Fundamental Law. President of the Republic T/3089/13. In view of the reasons set out in the letter sent back for consideration, the amendment proposed under Article III of the Act. Chapter III of the Convention on the Functioning of the European Union and repealing the preamble referred to therein. Dear House, In view of what has been said, I would like to ask you to vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[19.40]]
u2023-05-22-258	I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert:]] Mr. Secretary of State indicates you're taking the opportunity. I give the floor to Secretary Robert Répássy. Here you go.
u2023-05-22-259	Thank you for the floor. Madam President! Dear Parliament, The President of the Republic did not agree with the Act on complaints, announcements of public interest and the rules governing the notification of abuses adopted by the Parliament on the 11 April 2023 meeting day, exercising the powers set out in Article 6 (5) of the Fundamental Law. In a letter sent back by the President of the Republic, the President proposed that the Act should be amended accordingly. The Parliament shall leave the chapter of Parliament and adopt the law again without these rules. The government, considering the proposal of the President of the Republic, is ready to support a text version of the law which only implements the technical transposition of the EU directive, in order to conclude the ongoing infringement procedure as soon as possible, and only implement the regulatory regime resulting from EU law into the Hungarian legal environment. I ask this House to contribute with its vote in favour to the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-22-260	I would like to inform the Secretary of State that 13 minutes 48 seconds remain available later in the debate. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to the speakers who have been notified. Congressman Imre Vejkey is next. Here you go.
u2023-05-22-261	Madam President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Katalin Novák, President of the Republic, before signing the Act on Complaints, Notifications of Public Interest and Rules on Abuse, adopted by the Parliament on 11 April 2023, sent it back to Parliament for consideration under Article 6 (5) of the Fundamental Law. Directive 2019/1937/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2019 on the protection of persons reporting infringements of Union law. The aim of the directive is understandable, but its instruments can rightly be contested, as it serves to increase mistrust among the members of the community. The Legislative Committee has also drawn the same legal conclusion as the Sandor Palace, stating that, in order to achieve a higher level of protection of the fundamental values and rights enshrined in the Fundamental Law, and in view of the public interest in defending the Hungarian lifestyle, the Act III. The provisions of Chapter III of the Directive are not related to the transposition of the directive and Hungarian legislation has already existed on announcements of public interest, and this is the case with Article III of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Chapter 3 does not fit. Ladies and Gentlemen, On the basis of the above, in agreement with President Katalin Novák and the Legislative Committee, the parliamentary faction of the KDNP also requests the Parliament to refer the returned law to the III. It shall adopt it again without the provisions of Chapter III. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-22-262	Congressman Bence Tordai, from the Dialogue Group, has also applied for a speech. I'll give you the floor in the current time frame. Here you go.
u2023-05-22-263	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, The story of this whistleblower protection law is the story of a huge fidesz fall on the face and a great success for the Dialogue-Greens and Jávor Benedek, as well as for all decent, well-spoken Hungarian citizens. Let's see what happened. This Directive on the protection of whistleblowers was adopted in the European Union by Benedek Jávor, who was then a representative in the EP, and later carried this directive through Parliament and then the Commission, which was clearly not born by chance from a Hungarian Member, since the citizens of any other EU state are not living in such a corrupt regime, and it is here that the most necessary is to examine the lawlessness or various cases of corruption committed by power, and that justice must respond and investigate legitimate claims. This directive, this EU directive, was adopted in vain, and the Fidesz government could not or did not want to transpose it into Hungary, and in December 2021 the deadline expired. After all, we managed to bring him here in April this year, before the House. Then we had an argument with the Secretary of State, and he admitted in his closing statement that everything you think is wrong in this law is Benedek Jávor, and everything that is good, so to speak, and that is the work of Fidesz. Well, what you have found appropriate, what you have added to the bill, is now going to the trash can with all due respect. A small proportion of Hungarians who closely follow the events of Parliament are very happy to observe this. Thus, the Dialogue-Greens tabled a motion, an amendment, to the effect that it was the case with Mr III. The chapter, which we are going to delete now on the proposal of Katalin Novak, should be removed from the law, because then the original concept of Jávor remains, although it is a rather minimalist transposition, obviously would not risk much, and the nonsense parts that try to take account of the iconic, bigoted worldview of Fidesz are an XXI. In a society of the century, those homophobic parts that you put into it are certainly coming out of it. After you adopted this law by ignoring the dialogue and other opposition amendments, then Benedek Jávor and I turned to the European Commission, we also drew your attention to the fact that this directive has been ridiculed and transposed into the Hungarian legal order, and that not only has it reached the Commission's ears, but it seems that Katalin Novak also agreed with our argument, or that he should play the role of a good cop to Brussels. So, however it happened, the point is that in the Alexander Palace, they came to the conclusion that it was indeed necessary to support the Dialogue-Greens amendment, we were right to remove this incriminated, scandalous III. chapter of the law. I am very pleased that they listen to at least their own head of state, we are less pleased that they are so cowardly that they would have accepted this amendment instead of accepting it when we suggested it under the guard of a TAB meeting, slipping through thousands of other amendments, trying to get away with it in a sly way, and now here on Monday night at quarter to eight, they will only have to suffer this amazing loss of face in a very short-term debate. This will still be an amazing loss of face, and you can see on Mr. Secretary's face that there's not much left of it. [[Dr. Répássy Robert will spread his arms.]] So, this is a huge professional and political failure, and we are happy about it, and all well-spoken Hungarian citizens are happy with us. So there's gonna be a whistle-blower law, although we obviously have some doubts about how useful it is in such a built-up hybrid regime, where democratic sets are more of a paragon to cover up dirty businesses in the background. So, however, this is a pleasure for us, and I am also pleased that they have then seen our truth, they will support the amendment of the Dialogue-Greens, even if it does not come under our name, but under the name of Katalin Novak, because it does not matter to us, unlike you, who says it, but to what it says, it does not matter where an amendment comes from, but what the content is. If you were to follow the principles at any level, if you took democracy a little seriously, there would still be substantive debates in the Hungarian Parliament, then you would have been able to be persuaded by the III. It seems that you no longer have any relation to this, either to democracy, to the substantive debate, or to the examination of things in themselves, to examine the substance of the matter. So I'm sorry this had to happen, but if that's the case, then let's all be happy together, have fun together on the fidestes on the stomach and press that button. I know it's gonna be very difficult, I know your hands or your mustaches are gonna shake, I know they're gonna think about Javor Benedek while they're talking about the European Union. Instead, I propose a much more positive approach: look at the fact that they can use it a little bit for Hungarian people too! This is an exceptional occasion, so you should appreciate and appreciate that you can finally vote along with us, the Group of Dialogue Greenes, in good company. Enjoy this victory together. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the opposition ranks.]]
u2023-05-22-264	Mr Imre Vejkey has spoken again. I'll give you the floor in the remaining time frame. Here you go. [[19.50]]
u2023-05-22-265	Madam President, Thank you for the floor. I would just like to respond very briefly to what our fellow Member Bence of Turda has said. Obviously, I must reject what he said, because it does not correspond to the reality that there is a corrupt system in Hungary. As far as Benedek Jávor is concerned, I would like to say that the citizens appreciated his operation so much that I understand that he is no longer a representative in Brussels. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] It is clear from all this that there is democracy in Hungary, because the Hungarian Parliament has discussed the bill and is reiterating it to this House in support of what the President of the Republic has sent for consideration. If we look at where democracy is and where it is not, or rather talk about corruption, then it is clear that Hungary is a modern democratic rule of law, and it is clear that there is no corrupt system here, unlike what our fellow Member Bence Tordai said, but let us see what is in Brussels. Well, in Brussels, I think the left in Brussels is full of corruption cases, and you all know that, and I do not want to say this here, but I do not see that you are disturbed by these facts. But I am pleased that you support the bill tabled by the Justice Committee and the Legislative Committee. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-22-266	Congressman Sándor Fazekas has also applied for a speech. I'll give you the floor in the time frame, please.
u2023-05-22-267	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, Within these walls, we have been accustomed to the style of Congressman Bence Tordai, to his comments, to the way he used to express these thoughts or attacks. I don't even want to talk about it separately, but he said something like that, that there are dirty businesses in the background, or there are businessmen. I believe that the Member, for example, was referring to what your joint candidate, Mark-Zay, said. It's not a dirty background business, is it, because you're doing it; it's a nasty thing: Western dollars, who knows where the money went, could run into tax rules, and the rest, and all that. But here is another dirty business, my honourable Member: for what else could it have been when you joined forces with Jobbik for the great glory of the Balliberal cooperation; what was the dirty business there? Obviously, this question mark is there for him, but it's not hard to figure out the answer. And then perhaps I'll tell you another thing: Catalina Czech and her interests, the European Union's support, what is that, honourable Member? Are you sure that's something clean? I don't even go to Brussels anymore, and you obviously took the sample from there; the pattern is sticky, the example is sticky. What was going on there under industrial conditions has been and is currently taking place in your political small plant by handicrafts. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-22-268	I would like to ask that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no such signal.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I'll ask the author if you'd like to answer. [[For signal:]] Mr Secretary of State indicates that you are taking this opportunity, so I give the floor to Mr Répássy Róbert, Secretary of State.
u2023-05-22-269	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Dear fellow Members, Members, I don't want to discourage Congressman Bence of Turdai, but I don't want to upset Mr. Bence of Tordai. We take the chapter out of this law, and it remains possible to announce these activities or these practices contrary to the values of the Fundamental Law, since the Notice Protection Act is about the protection of whistleblowers and is not about what they can report because they are included in other legislation, such as the Criminal Code, the Fundamental Law or other legislation. So all the behaviours, all the aspirations that are contrary to the spirit and values of the Fundamental Law, can be assessed separately in their individuality; it obviously depends on what it is about; in some cases there is no legal consequence that someone thinks contrary to the values of the Fundamental Law, but in other cases it is important what the Fundamental Law requires, because if the Fundamental Law provides for a binding rule, it is obviously binding on the whole legal system. So I was going to say that the only reason the government has considered leaving this part, leaving this chapter, is because this is not the financial legislation of Section III. It was included in Chapter I, but included in separate laws. This is also true of all other reports, so it is also true for anti-corruption reports that the protection of the notifier or the notification is aimed at activities that are declared illegal by other laws, see criminal code, law of offence, and the rest, and so on. So no more or less has become this legislation because it falls short of Annex III. Chapter 1 [[Bence of Turdai: Which part...]] It is also possible that Parliament will strengthen the protection of the values of the Fundamental Law in other legislation, since this is not excluded by our current decision. The institutional protection requirements of the Fundamental Law are mandatory throughout the Hungarian legal system, so certain institutions, such as the institution of marriage and family, are protected by the Hungarian legal system as a whole, and we will continue to strengthen them in other laws. So I'm saying I didn't want to take your pleasure; if you were happy that the Fundamental Law might have become weaker, then I'd rather leave that mistake to you tonight. Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Bence of Turdai: Generous...]]
u2023-05-22-270	I would like to inform my fellow Members that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. They will be opened by Mr László Varju, who has applied for a post- Agenda address. You'll have the floor in five minutes, Congressman. [[It's a short break.]] Excuse me, Congressman, the microphone isn't working, so I'd like to ask you for some patience and at the same time to restore time. [[László Varju: Thank you very much. A portable microphone is placed in front of the congressman.]] Thank you very much. You have the floor.
u2023-05-22-271	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear House, When the Municipality of Újpest set up the local government budget for 2023, it established an operating budget to ensure the security of municipal institutions and services. The city's management pays particular attention to the renovation of municipal property. It did so despite the fact that, on the part of the government, we find that the systematic withdrawal of resources from the local government sector continued this year, as it has become clear in recent years. I can say that Fidesz's pro-state political activities also divide public money between districts and municipalities on this basis, without any clear and traceable criteria. In Újpesten, however, since 2020, the municipality has spent more than 1.5 billion forints on the renovation of nursery schools, kindergartens and social institutions in Újpesten, and in some cases even the renovation of primary schools has taken place. These included a number of smaller or larger energy investments, which were, however, partial. In the meantime, however, the situation of the world and, let us say, Hungary has changed, and everyone is forced to face the fact that, in addition to inflation in Orbán, the economic and energy crisis adds to this in the first step. In the absence of government assistance, the municipality of Újpest has allocated 600 million forints in the first round for the energy renovation of Újpest kindergartens and crèches. Based on the preliminary technical surveys, the institutions where the development in this direction is most justified were included in the first phase. Accordingly, energy renovations take place in the Hajló cradle and Karinthy Frigyes Kindergarten, Skin Painting Kindergarten, Sandbhorn Kindergarten and Kindergarten and Flower Kindergarten. In addition, in the case of Hajló cradle and Karinthy Frigyes Kindergarten there will be complete renovation, including insulation work on nearly 1000 square meters, which will be carried out with modern, 15 centimeters thick thermal insulation plates. [[20.00]] In addition, heat-insulated, high-locked plastic windows will be replaced. The roofproofing of the institution has already been provided by the municipality, and its work can start this year. In the case of several institutions, doors already in rather poor condition are replaced and shields are installed. Thanks to the developments, the municipality not only improves the comfort of the institutions, but also achieves significant cost savings. Energy initiatives are not new in Újpesten, as I said, as the medical clinic had previously received a new, modern boiler, and energy-saving LED lights were replaced and replaced continuously with conventional bulbs in municipal-owned institutions. At the end of last year, the municipality also held a free LED sweat division, so it continued with the population. The municipality took over the energy crisis-related increase in GP practices in Újpest and increased the interest rate on the municipal interest rate linked to the energy modernisation of the condominiums. Ladies and gentlemen, Here I would like to thank all IV members who have contributed to the preparation of the amending budget. to a district colleague for the thorough, high-quality professional work of guaranteeing the safe, balanced and responsible functioning of the district. I'm doing this here because, as I said, it has to be done in circumstances where the government is more likely to interfere with this work, making this activity more difficult by withdrawing funds. Therefore, I repeat, thank you for the work of the Municipality of Újpest. Madam President, thank you very much for the floor, thank you for your attention. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-05-22-272	Congresswoman Andrea Hegedüs, from the DK Group, also came forward after the agenda. I'll give you the floor in five minutes. Here you go.
u2023-05-22-273	Thank you very much. Madam President, Dear House, Miskolc celebrates its jubilatory institutions with a flood of programs. What's the government's plan, a gift package for birthdays? Has the Fidesz Members of Parliament in Miskolc informed you of who was celebrating? I suppose you've forgotten, because you have so much to do, it must be hard to learn all the central lies, to perform and spread truthfully, white to black, black to white. True, inflation in Orbán is difficult to explain. On behalf of my city's jubilatory institutions, I will help you, more precisely, so that the people who celebrated you will not be disappointed and receive a genuine gift package instead of a withdrawal package. So take out your calendar and make a note of why it is necessary to open that certain treasury door. The first stone theatre of our country, the Miskolc National Theatre, is 200 years old. 160 years ago, the only remaining synagogue in the city was built. Nor can it be forgotten about the symbol of Miskolc, the lookout tower in Avas, which was inaugurated 60 years ago, and the Miskolc Symphony Orchestra was formed at the same time. The Hungarian Woodstock, or Diósgyőr Rock Festival, is 50 years old. The Miskolc Zoo is 40 years old. The Miracle Mill Puppet Theatre in Miskolc is 30 years old and the Pannon Sea Museum is 10 years old. If we add the number of candles on the cake of the eight celebrated birthdays, we get 610. That's a hell of a way to light 610 candles on that particular cake. 2023 Miskolc is the year of culture. It's rare to have as many events and anniversaries as there are this year. My beloved city has always been one of the most outstanding cultural and spiritual bastions in the country. This year, these high places become even more visible, as more cultural institutions are united in jubilee than I have already said. We're celebrating this rare anniversary meeting with your real agenda. Miskolc is vibrant, full of life. The eight celebraters not only have cake with confetti, candles, balloons, toasting candles, but also gifts. But let's jump back in time for eight to ten months, what happened then. The government raised energy prices so high that blood literally cooled in our veins, referring to war inflation, which was also called nonexistent by the president of the central bank. Yeah, literally, because the ten-fold thermal charge was impossible for public institutions to manage. Swimming pools, libraries, sports centers closed in a row. And according to the domino principle, the rooks of culture have come to a close. The symphonics worked to ensure at least 12 degrees in the building that their instruments would not fail. The theater had a temperant heating of about 15 degrees, but in the orchestral ditch it was even colder. The actors and musicians were in the building with their phones lit up. Employees were affected by rotation; colds, flu, pneumonia, arthritis. The Wondermill Puppet Theatre tried to perform without heating and lighting in hats, gloves and coats. The National Theatre of Miskolc tried to prevent him from celebrating his 200th year with closed gates. Desperate circumstances, to which the answer from the government was just a shrug. Solve it, they sent a message from the monastery near the heat of the fireplace, where they don't light with lanterns or cell phones. This time, I thank the Miskolc-loving and supportive community for all they have done for our theatre, and thanks to the collaboration, we did not have to pause the performances. However, I have some bad news: winter will continue this year. The dog gets fat, but in the fall, it's on us, too. What does the government do to prevent these institutions from being in such an impossible situation again? How will they help? A few months ago, he fought beyond the power of our city to survive, and I'm afraid we'll have to prepare for it again this year. Many of Miskolc's artists, thinkers, and spiritual greatness are responsible for their unbroken endurance and protection of cultural life. The sky has given them lanterns, but the Fidesz-KDNP government must not be interpreted literally. However, the shadow government knows what the country needs: instead of the ruins of the Orbán system, it needs to give hope, predictability and security. We need unity and resistance from dissatisfaction. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-05-22-274	Mr Zoltán Varga, from the DK Group, also applied for a post-meeting speech. I'll give you the floor in five minutes. Here you go.
u2023-05-22-275	Thank you, Madam President. I think I am not far from reality if I say that 10 million Hungarians have been thinking for years about what Minister for Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó can do. We can't tell you that, but after the announcement of another water-eating battery factory in Debrecen, where he was the main character, obviously the Secretary of State doesn't know geography. It was no small surprise not only to the Debrecens, but also to the former geography teacher, perhaps even to the least familiars of our country, when he said that the new Chinese saviour Orbán, the new Chinese battery factory Eve Power, which will be installed again on Debrecen, will provide 95 percent of its water demand both from purified sewage and surface water. Now, this is where everyone was shocked, especially us Debrecens, at least two mistakes, lies, or jokes; let each one decide for himself which of the three was. In Debrecen, there is not enough surface water to satisfy the needs of a water-eating battery factory, but nothing could satisfy the needs of a minimal factory, since there is no river, no stream, and not even a small plant. If the Foreign Minister had raised the map of Hungary, it would have been immediately obvious to him. Apparently, he didn't do that. Pretty much everything in Debrecen, but I think everyone's known what's going on in Debrecen since she was in junior high. If by chance you were referring to the Civaqua programme on surface water, I would like to tell Minister Szijjártó that either you are lying or you are wrong in this case, and that the Civaqua programme, which transports the Tisza water to Debrecen via the pipeline, is the most important thing for Debrecen and the surrounding areas, not to serve Chinese battery factories. Even the mayor of the city of Debrecen, anti-Debrecen, knew this, at least on 22 November 2022, for he said this to the press about halfway through the Civaqua program. [[20.10]] And now again, I quote, this programme is not designed to meet, serve and support the city's water supply, environmental and water management aspects. I'll tell you once again, the mayor of our city against Debrecen knew that he had probably been suffering from partial amnesia or forgotten everything since he didn't remember what he said six months ago, but what he learned from geography. In fact, let us talk about the second part of the sentence, that it will be supplied with purified sewage. We know very well that waste water contaminated with fecal matter and then purified is not suitable for this task, very not. Grey water would be good for that. However, I have one more piece of news for the Minister, and even for the mayor of Debrecen against Debrecen, that there is no surface water in Debrecen, but there is no grey water anywhere. The possibility of this is not built either, the sewer system where it is collected is not built, and the system where it is cleaned is not built. So there's no such system. And the waste water contaminated with fecal matter, as I said earlier, cannot be used for this purpose, but let's assume that is what the Minister was thinking. However, the urban waterworks that produce this purified waste water are located about 10 kilometers away from the manufacturer in the airline, and within the 10 kilometers of the airline, there are an enormous number of surface utilities, roads, motorways, residential houses and millions of real estates, that is, if they want to do this, this would mean decades of preparation and indemnification at present. Péter Szijjártó told the Debrecen people that they were not stupid, I mean the government, that they were releasing dangerous batteries to Debrecen. The Debrecen, so we, uh, tell them back that we're not so sure about that. You can see that nothing is expensive for the Orbán tellers, and there is no lie that they would not burn just to make Orbán's sick dream come true as soon as possible, to destroy it, to make it desert, to make Debrecen unlivable. It's tragic! If it depends on Orbán, its organic dictatorship and the organized chinnovnics serving him, Hungary will become the prey, the victims of the toxic chemical plants of Chinese comrades, and it will become a barren desert, which we will not allow, and the Dobrev government will prevent. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2023-05-22-276	Although Mr Ferenc Varga was not in the Chamber when he was due to speak, I will now be fair enough to give him the opportunity to speak after the agenda. So I'll give the floor to the congressman in a five-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2023-05-22-277	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your kindness. Madam President, Ladies and gentlemen, How far does the government go in the world of extremes? The question is not unfounded, since in recent years our beloved government has taken a radical radical turn on the far right, from liberal to conservative, from secular to religious, from Soros agent to anti-Soros, anti-Russian friend. This is the nature of your policy, which has long been part of extreme right-wing thinking, the ideas and calling words borrowed from here, the deliberate misinterpretation. They've learned perfectly how to divide and conquer! It's an actress. They create enemy images, consciously instigate social groups against each other. To maintain power, they can do anything. It is never the government's job to govern, not to make good decisions, and then to defend with arguments the changes that are embodied in decisions, but to constantly attack the opposition, to build an enemy image, to create danger, to draw a hoofed devil on the horizon, and then to accuse this enemy of the most inconvenient accusations possible. Orbán said that in 2006. Well, we can see that the government has been doing this ever since, because let's just remember that in 2018 the Prime Minister compared the Hungarian Roma to the migrants in his Miskolc speech, to those migrants who, according to the government's communication, should be kept away from the country by any means possible. Then, in connection with the Pearl Pata trial, it was no different when the law-abiding government refused to pay compensation for the segregation of children in disregard of a final court judgment. And it was no different when Viktor Orbán began a racial discussion quoting Nazism in Tusnádfürdő and stated that we did not want to be mixed species. Then there are recent events, which we cannot go without saying, and in my opinion, our government has descended into yet more depths, since terrorists who have been convicted of acts of terrorism, who have been convicted of extreme right-wing ideas, have been released on the basis of the Pope's visit. Would they have been released even if they had attacked Fidesz politicians, not their opponents? And recently, we also learned that Adolf Hitler, according to our government, wanted European unity. Obviously, in a political sense, their aim is to blur the line between the right and the extreme right, which is why they also hold an extremist pair of drawers, towards which they are increasingly exercising unacceptable gestures to all well - feeling people. There is an economic and social crisis, and in Europe there is uniquely skyrocketing inflation in Orbán, increasingly difficult livelihoods and poverty. Of course, the hoofed devil drawn on the horizon is still there. Instead of ruling and dealing with the crisis, the government blames war and Brussels and distributes its lies on every channel through its propaganda. They can make enemies and they can't steer. The shadow government developed the 13-point anti-inflationary action plan to prove that inflation in Orbán could be broken down. We also have a plan to bring EU funds home in three months. We show that there is an alternative, we can replace the lying, extreme Orbán system and lead Hungary back to the European road. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2023-05-22-278	The representative of the Democratic Coalition, Mrs Judit Ráczné Földi, also spoke after the agenda. I'll give you the floor in five minutes. Here you go.
u2023-05-22-279	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On 12 December 2007, István Garancsi, a major contractor, gained 80 percent share in Fehérvár FC Kft., which operates the band. You know, István Garancsi, who is a very good friend of Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. István Garancsi is currently the 12th richest Hungarian owner and president of MOL Fehérvár FC. This year he was able to increase his wealth by 49 percent to some 132 billion. He's not affected by inflation in Orbán. Of course, there is also a new stadium for the operation of the football team, built with state money. In 2014, it was announced that a stadium of 14,000 seats was built in Székesfehérvár for HUF 9 billion. Investment costs doubled compared to the plans and reached HUF 18.6 billion, although inflation was below 5 per cent during this period, construction prices and construction fees did not increase significantly. The head of the winning consortium, the Austrian background STRABAG, has recently become one of the main sponsors of Videoton, and during this period they were also among the enthusiastic supporters of the Puskás Ferenc Football Academy. Is it a coincidence that the company's HUF 500 million grant is included in its 2018 report, while the same amount of support is also unnamed at Fehérvár FC Kft.? Even in the old stadium, Videoton has achieved one of the biggest successes in recent years and won a championship in 2015. From 1 July 19, MOL Fehérvár FC closed in second, third and fourth place, earning fewer and fewer points. In the stadium built for a great deal of money, 3175 viewers were curious about the matches in 2022, meaning that the utilisation is less than 50 percent, 2 percent of the total revenue is the ticket revenues, so they need support. The city of Székesfehérvár supported the football club with more than 700 million forints between 2015-21. It's about tax dollars for the people of the city. There are certainly many areas, social, cultural and health, that would have wanted to receive similar support. [[20.20]] According to their published reports, their Tao support amounts to more than HUF 1.5 billion. Of course, it is worth it to the owner, and the figures show that without the aid, this club would not be able to operate profitably on a market basis. We see that the key to staying or staying above is the connection to the NER circles. The Taoiras, which have been sued legally, of course, are not shown by this football club, just like the one on the road. The current football season brought the nightmares of the White Castles; the team, each week, threatened with the horror of the loss. Based on his recent findings, we can see how successful millions, billions of people cast into football are if not accompanied by commitment to the club if there is no skill if the team does not have a real owner. It shows incompetence that last year the association paid HUF 1.3 billion for the termination of fixed-term contracts; this was the cost of firings and coaching. This amount covers the entire annual budget of the Kecskemét football club. MOL Fehérvár FC has the second most valuable football tournament in Hungary. MOL Fehérvár FC is worth €15.9 million and Kecskemét is worth €6 million. However, this is inversely proportional in salaries: for Fehérvár FC they earn HUF 5 million, for Kecskemét they earn HUF 2 million a month. But the mayor of Székesfehérvár won't let go of MOL Fehérvár FC. Based on his registration on May 16th, he initiated in one person to enter the Saturday match free of charge. The municipality resigned its share of the ticket income, and took a HUF 1 million rental fee so that the match could be visited free of charge. It is outrageous that the 12th richest man in the country's club should be supported by the city of Székesfehérvár, which has been subjected to government withdrawal. It is outrageous that István Garancsi did not stand before the Székesfehérvár people in this situation! I like football, basketball, hockey and quality sports. I support all Hungarian athletes, I respect and respect real athletes, but what Viktor Orbán's government is doing with this sport and brings politics, the NER system, is outrageous. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-05-22-280	Mr Zoltán Sas, Member of the Jobbik Group, also applied for a post-meeting speech. I'll give you the floor in five minutes. Here you go.
u2023-05-22-281	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Since 1992, the day of Hungarian defence is 21 May. This date is linked to an important military event, specifically during the 1848-49 War of Independence, on 21 May 1849 the Hungarian troops recaptured the castle of Buda from the Austrian troops. I think that this is an extremely worthy event to be the day of Hungarian defence. Allow me to quote a sentence from the military oath of the Hungarian Army, in which there may be a lot, a lot of things. It is about the aspect of Hungary, which sounds like I will protect it at the cost of my life. This is a sentence that remembers patriotism, self-sacrifice, and professional vocation in an exemplary way, and I must say that there is not a single profession in which the word "at the cost of my life" would appear. Therefore, maximum respect for Hungarian soldiers. We can say without exaggeration that, regardless of the political systems, Hungarian soldiers, Hungarian citizens could count on the Hungarian citizens at any time and on any issue in the past, in the present, and I am convinced that they will continue to help Hungarian citizens beyond their ability to perform. There are many and many serious problems in the world that greatly undermine the international security situation, and this also affects the Hungarian Defence Office. Obviously, the Russian-Ukrainian war is a series of events that no one has desired, but in terms of the development of forces there are many opportunities that cannot be chosen in peacetime, the development directions that are necessary for the defence to fully comply with its statutory tasks. These developments, these technical innovations, have been under way in recent years, are ongoing and we also know that there are planned developments in the next period. The thing is, however, that every development, perhaps the smallest unit, is the man, the soldier himself, because if we don't have enough soldiers, then there won't be a man who can handle even the most advanced weapons systems properly and effectively, so we need soldiers. However, what we need to see is that soldiers must receive equal pay for their wages in the EU Member States, as they carry out the same tasks, put their lives at the same risk and fulfil their battlefield duties as their colleagues in Western Europe. So I am convinced, and the Jobbik-Conservatives support the direction that Hungarian soldiers should be paid the same way as European soldiers, so that the current shortage of personnel can be improved much better, and that the strength of the army and the ability to maintain the stock can be improved. Without a soldier, there's no military, so we need men. I'm still in the same age group that had the opportunity to serve as a regular soldier, but to serve the country. I must say that the oath itself, and the service itself, was an uplifting feeling. Although the military service at that time had several shortcomings that may now make us all smile or nostalgic, I am convinced that it has never harmed anyone, and even used the state and the community, the Hungarian nation, if Hungarian people, young Hungarians, have received modern and modern military training, and as dedicated citizens, even by sacrificing their lives, they have tried to protect Hungary and Hungary's territorial integrity. On behalf of the Jobbik-Conservatives, we thank every member of the Hungarian Defence Forces for their service so far, and we wish you strength and health for your further service. Thank you so much for listening. [[Ander Balázs applauds.]]
u2023-05-22-282	Mr Ander Balázs, from the Jobbik Group, also applied for a post-scheduled speech. I'll give you the floor in five minutes. Here you go. [[20.30]]
u2023-05-22-283	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Dear House, László Komár had a hit, he said America was here. She sang about the most beautiful woman in America. I also say that America is here, but I am going to talk about Latin America, the banana companies that mock democracy, about what we say, Mario Vargas Llosa, the Nobel Prize winner Peruvian writer, described Mexico as the perfect dictatorship. There were parties in Mexico, there were parties, there was a free election, but between 1929-2000, so for 71 years, despite all this, the Institutional Revolutionary Party was in power. I am not, by the way, one of those who, heated by some tribal logic, see the hoofed devil in political opponents only because they play football in other teams, but they do need to draw attention to the troubles, and it must be said that the current power has a cardinal responsibility in connection with the existing problems. When the philosophy of power is that people are subjects and not citizens, you have to say or recall this other hit, one of the P. Mobile hits, which said: "Shut the fuck up!" This is the everyday feeling of many Hungarian people, many Hungarian citizens, that power is like this to her; also to the elderly, socialist woman who is in front of retirement, who, in a small town, has made bad alliances, but has also put out her soul for her protégés, she has been dismissed from her job. This may also be the feeling of the high school student who produced a meme from the head of the college holding the national ribbon vice versa, and so they approached him with some subpair pettyness and kicked him out of college two weeks before graduation. So that's what I call a kind of new feudalism, a kind of NER-shevik approach. The essence of this approach is that you want addicted, vulnerable people. The more vulnerable he is to power, the better he is for them, and he strays like a devil from incense smoke from self-righteous citizens, he sees them as a suspicious element, as happened during communism. Let me get you some stats, say, from the GKI, statistics from my constituency at the end of 2022. The three poorest settlements: Istvándi, where the net income of 69 thousand forints is barely higher than per capita, Somogyaracs with 79 thousand forints, Kőkút 86 thousand forints. Last spring, the pro-government candidate killed 90 percent and 85 percent respectively in these settlements. However, if we look at the 1,400 young people who were forced to go abroad or to other settlements, the luckier parts of the country and voted from a distance, there were quite different voting rates. Well, that's them, that's the social class that's painfully absent from the multi-disadvantaged rural regions. Some of the people who stayed, however, will be able to be bribed with a birthday greeting to Little Count. But there is also another characteristic of these European banana public companies: huge social gaps. For example, the richest 1 percent own one third of the total assets in Hungary. Then there are some super-rich, including, let's say, the public procurement champion, a luxury parasite, a prominer of the government-like elite, Lőrinc Mészáros, who last year increased his fortune by HUF 180 billion, i.e. HUF 500 million a day. This amount is 350,000 forints per minute, this money is greater than what I took home as a teacher in September of last year. On the other hand, there is the population affected by inflation in Orbán. Twenty-four per cent inflation compared to the EU average of 8 per cent, the top 10 is food price increase with its 50 per cent level in one of the best agricultural countries in the world, where 20 million people could otherwise be supplied with high-quality food. Well, there are other gaps within the country. There are huge territorial differences, and if I think of my narrower Patriots, South Somogy, then there are amazing conditions there too, because the average net monthly wage is around 270 thousand forints. On the other hand, there is a settlement that has become famous for it on the spot, a 150 enthusiastic small settlements with a capital income per capita of HUF 7 million; not because the people living there would be so rich, but there is a local super-rich company established from abroad, which, by the way, preceded the capital income per capita on the road. These should be taken into account by the current government, reducing these gaping differences, and it should be noted that Hungarians are not servants, the Hungarian people are citizens in their own country. Thank you for your attention. [[Zoltán Eagle applauds.]]
u2023-05-22-284	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed.
