u2023-03-29-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] The 9th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Bernadett Bakos and László Earth will be notaries of my assistance. Welcome to everyone who's been monitoring our work. Dear Parliament, A parliamentary report by the President of the Curia on the activities of the Curia in 2021, the report on the provision of the legal unit and the control of local government standards, together with the joint general debate on the proposal for a decision to adopt it, will follow. Report submitted by the President of the Curia B/314. and the proposal for a decision submitted by the Judicial Committee, H/2018. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt András Varga, President of the Curia, author of the report, in a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Mr. President. Please come to the pulpit and the Parliament will hear your report. [[Dr. Zsolt András Varga enters the pulpit.]] I give you the floor, please.
u2023-03-29-1	Thank you very much. Yes, Madam Vice President. Dear Parliament, Thank you for putting on the agenda the President of the Curia's report on 2021, which focuses on two main issues: ensuring a legal unit and controlling local government standards. Before I begin, please allow me to thank the National Assembly of Hungary for the help that I asked for at the hearing in the last year's report in this Chamber: this was an anomaly concerning administrative secondary judicial powers. After my request, the Parliament amended the Act on Administrative Procedure and the related rules, and we did not feel this in 2021, but in 2022. I can say quite calmly that this restored these powers and the terrible strain that appeared in the administration of the Curia has been lifted. So once again, in my own name, on behalf of the administrative college and on behalf of the entire Curia, thank you very much. I say this objectively, because this circumstance shows that public cooperation between individual branches of power can also function normally, and in such a case all institutions, obviously all Hungary, will ultimately gain if there is such a relationship between the branches of state as is required by the Fundamental Law of Hungary. Dear House, As regards the 2021 report, if I may not read it from beginning to end, I will highlight three elements in total. The first element does not belong closely to the subject of the report, but in order to be able to judge our activities, the background must also be outlined. For the Curia 2021 was not an easy year. Obviously, the change of leadership that took place on 2 January meant waiting, and this initially made the work of the Curia difficult; however, at the end of 2021, we could go on a judicial break with initial concerns in the spirit of mutual trust, and that was because we did our job in light of the fact that the Curia has a president and not the president has a Curia. This has given us the right level of responsibility, and in this spirit we have sought to strike a balance with Hungary's public institutions, with international judicial forums, and not least with the judiciary and the co-vocations. If we are allowed to address a single sentence here, this is why, from an institutional point of view, we look forward to the presentation of the legislation that was the result of an agreement between Hungary and the European Union, because we were being punished in it, but we are being punished by what the Curia itself is doing: the more than 800-year-old Curia works in such a way that it has a president and not the President's Curia, so on the institutional side we look forward to this completely without any concern. So, in the year of the Curia, at the end of 2021, we had a calm year, and that was important because the next year was a 2022 election year, and this meant a very serious responsibility for the Curia as an exclusive electoral court. If it had not been possible to start 2022 calmly, it would be likely that this would have had a negative impact on electoral judgement as well. The second question I would like to address is the local government standard control, which is the traditional, very, very old competence of the Curia. Article 19 shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. This was the case in the 20th century, but there is no doubt that at that time it concerned not only the decisions of the meetings of the County of Várgyes, but also the levels of law in general. That is why it can be said that the Curia also carried out constitutional tasks, but at that time we did not have a chartered constitution, but the laws were the historical constitution, so the examination of legality and the examination of constitutionality meant the same thing. In any case, this was done by the Curia until 1896 when the task was inherited by the Royal Administrative Court. In this sense, the Curia is the common tribe from which today there are two outgrown branches: ordinary courts, led by the Curia and the Constitutional Court. It is no coincidence, therefore, that the powers of the local authorities were also moved later: since 1989-1990, the Constitutional Court also controlled legality and constitutionality, and with the entry into force of the Fundamental Law, the rule of legality in respect of the municipalities was restored to the Curia, the constitutionality control remained with the Constitutional Court. Dear Parliament, I said this for such a long time because everything has an effect that if there is a violation of the basic law of a municipal decree, the Curia cannot judge it: either attack it at the Constitutional Court if it itself detects it or entrusts it to the parties involved, to the high priest, or to the municipality or to anyone else against whom such a decree is applied. What the Curia can do is a close legal investigation of municipal decrees. There's a very interesting fluctuations here. There are years when we deal with more local government standard control, and there are times when fewer people arrive. In 2021 there were many, almost twice as many cases in the previous year, as in 2020: 55 cases, of which 17 were judicial initiatives, 37 were government proposals and one was a motion from an individual who was not entitled to submit them. The reason for this increase is the fact that the current chief ministers of the then government have paid great attention to how the local government legislation in the special legal order in 2021 is taking place. The municipal council completed 35 cases in 2021, of which 7 were from the previous year, 2020 and 28 were from 2021. Out of the 35 cases, the Curia took a substantive decision, six out of the 7 other cases the proceedings were terminated, and once the motion was rejected. [[9.10]] What was new between cases was the regulation of the use of public land, i.e. the solution when several municipalities attempted to replace the scarce financial resources by imposing different tolls. This was detected primarily by the Pest County Government Office, but also by some other county government offices. Undoubtedly, this must also be said that the situation has been simplified towards the end of the year, because the municipalities have begun to repeal their regulations, seeing that the Mansion has a consistent practice of extermination. Therefore, this was the municipal experience of 2021. Dear House, The next and final question, which I would like to summarise orally, is the activity related to the provision of a legal unit. Since we have started this year's fourth year of this new legal unit system, it is not so new to us. From the perspective of the report, however, 2021 was a novelty, because the limited precedent system, the institution of the related legal unit complaint, started to be practiced by the Curia in autumn 2020, but in 2020 there were very few cases, which we were able to assess. I told you about that last year. 2021, on the other hand, was the first full year, which is therefore not officially called the year of the legal unit. While a total of six complaints were lodged in the previous year, in 2021 38 complaints were made by law units, the division of which by division is the following: nine civil, classic civil, six economic, 22 administrative and one labour law cases. No complaints were received in criminal cases during the reporting period. This year, the Curia's Legal Unit Complaints Board completed 26 cases, while 13 cases remained pending at the end of the period. With regard to the legal unit complaint procedure, it is necessary to point out that the legal unit is provided primarily not in the complaint procedure but in the review procedures. The derogation from the published decisions of the Curia in the procedural laws is one of the possible reasons for the review. Therefore, a request for a review may be submitted by the holder by reference to a derogation from the published decision of the Curia on a question of law. Compared to this, the legal unit complaint is a special appeal procedure, which, at the request of the parties to the proceedings, contributes to ensuring the unity of rights. Not on a principle level, not generally, but on a specific, individual case, it examines the issue of unity of rights. At the same time, it is not intended to eliminate the infringement of the rights and interests of the complainant in the subject matter of the case, but is intended to remove the derogation from the published decision and to ensure the unity of rights. The nine-person legal unit complaint Board, acting in 2021, was to be designated by Bsi from a list of the Presidents of the Council of the Curia, reflecting senility, on the basis of an algorithm. in accordance with its rules. As a result of these complaints, the Curia itself began to examine its own practice, and where we found that different judgments and decisive orders had been published earlier in the Collection of Court Decisions, the councils themselves tried to correct it by initiating a procedure for a division of rights. In 2021, the penal college took two decisions, the administrative college took two decisions, the civil college took eight decisions, and the administrative and civil college took three decisions together. This was also accompanied by four views from the penal college, two from the administrative college and one from the civic college. Dear Parliament, The total number of our decisions on 40 legal units and units of law in the reference year also shows that the focus of the operation of the Curia has shifted to formal legal unification. We've had an investigation on this. The Venice Commission has examined the new institutional system and found it appropriate. So, as part of the convergence between different legal systems, this limited precedent system is in line with European rule of law requirements. In this connection, the Curia received only one important comment, or, if you like, the Curia and the Parliament jointly: that the nine-member legal unit complaint, which is required by the law of the court organization, should be increased, a larger legal unit complaint should be dealt with. This has been agreed, and it is not in the year, but since 2022 it has 21 members, so it is almost a Commission-sized legal unit complaint that investigates these matters. The two permanent councils, the two councils with a permanent composition of 21 members, shall be chaired by one of the chairmen of the ordinary judgmental council of the Curia 17, the heads of the college and their alternates, the secretary-general, the deputy presidents and the president. In addition, we informed the Venice Commission on this and were pleased to note that their recommendation was rectified by the Curia in its own power. They undoubtedly maintained that it would be good to say this in law, too, it is expected to happen once. The second point was that it was okay, that the legal unification involving the parties, the legal unit complaint procedure was correct, legal, but there was still the classic legal unit procedure known since 1998 and, in particular, the possibility for the Curia not only to resolve the conflict between conflicting judgments, but also to take a decision to further develop the case law. This, in the view of the Venice Commission, is an opportunity inherited from socialism, i.e. the fact that the Curia actually defines the binding meaning of the legislation as a co-legislator, this is not appropriate in the Supreme Court if there is no concrete matter behind it and there is no specific difference. The Parliament adopted this recommendation, the 2021 CXXXIV on the amendment of certain criminal law and related other laws. As of 1 January 2022, Law No 202 integrated this type of legal unit procedure into the legal unit complaint procedure, so that the Board of Complaints may now decide to discuss the matter in addition to the members of the Curia judge in the college concerned or even refer it to the entire meeting of the Curia. So our legal unity system would now really stand up to everything, especially the fact that the parties are no longer excluded from the so-called internal preliminary ruling procedure replacing the classic, old legal unit procedure. So we inform the parties that there is a procedure initiated by such a council, that the parties can comment, and that is certainly right and right. Our work is not difficult, but the right to a fair trial is guaranteed by not doing so over the heads of the parties, if I may say so. It is of particular importance that, before the end of 2021, the Board of Complaints has taken its first so-called Unity Decision. This is very important because it also clearly defined the relationship between the Hungarian courts and the Court of Justice of the European Union. In particular, the fact that the law of the European Union applies, and if the Court of Justice of the European Union gives a binding interpretation, the Curia shall examine earlier decisions which are contrary to the new interpretation of the Court of Justice of the European Union, and, if it is allowed to say so, the binding force of its previous decisions. [[9.20]] This is, of course, not primarily important to the Court of Justice of the European Union, but to the Hungarian parties. So it is important that, if you look into the Collection of Court Decisions, you know that what you find there is a mandatory interpretation of the law or is not mandatory, and once again, if you are allowed to say so, is a history of law. Obviously, if this is the way it works in relation to Hungarian law and the law of the European Union, it must also work in relation to the Curia and the Constitutional Court. In fact, it can be said that in the constitutional dialogue between the courts there is a situation where there is no institutional conflict between the Curia and the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Curia and the European Court of Human Rights, and the Curia and the Constitutional Court. This unity of rights in terms of constitutionality, but, if you will, is also a very, very important achievement in terms of the rule of law. Dear Parliament, This was achieved in a relatively short time by the Curia, for which I am, of course, grateful to my fellow judges and all our colleagues. I thank you for this every time, in full meetings, but I think it is okay for me to inform this House. We have very important results, which we have achieved in the fight against the Covid epidemic, with harsh criticisms. They are important, because the Curia was never just one of the public institutions. The Curia has essentially existed since the founding of the state, and only authoritarian eras have interrupted its operation. The Curia was never an institution for itself, nor is it today. The full meeting of the Curia commemorated the 160th anniversary of the restoration of its operation on 8 April 2021. A century and a half ago, the restoration of the Supreme Court also meant the restoration of the achievements of our historic constitution, and the re-launch of domestic law. It was an essential milestone on the road to the 1867 compromise. This heritage is still borne by the Curia, which is not an abstract institution, but not by a building or a judicial administration, but by the community of judges from the Curia who are judging today. And our duties today are no less than they were over a century and a half, but up to 300 years ago or 800 years ago from the Golden Bull. Together with all constitutional and other public institutions, we must protect Hungary's independence and constitutional identity. To do so, we continue to ask for the support of the honourable Parliament. Thank you so much for listening. God save the Mansion and Hungary! [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-29-2	After Mr President's report, Mr Imre Vejkey, President of the Committee on Justice, who is the author of the proposal for a decision, is coming. Mr President also has a 30-minute timeframe and we can also listen to his presentation from the pulpit. I'll give you the floor in a 30-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2023-03-29-3	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, With all due respect, Varga Zs. Mr Andras, President of the Curia, Vice-Presidents, Head of the College and colleagues. The 2011 CLXI on the organisation and administration of the courts. Law 117. Pursuant to paragraph 1 (b), the President of the Curia submitted to the National Assembly the activities of the Curia in 2021, entitled B/314. The Court of Justice of 15 November 2022 held its report on the subject, which was discussed as a committee appointed at its meeting on 15 November 2022. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Judicial Committee has heard a detailed report on the work of the Curia in 2021. The year 2021 report is the first one in the series of which the Varga Zs. They include the activities of the Curia under the direction of President Andras of Curia. The change of president is an exciting and challenging time for all organisations. However, as it turned out from the written and oral accounts, this transition did not interfere with the work of the Curia, it continued to maintain a high standard. However, the period of the report in 2021 continued to be burdened with the measures related to the Covid-19 epidemic and the additional legal tasks created by the legislative environment affecting the new administrative sector. During the presentation of the report, the President of the Curia thanked the members of the Parliament, as he did here at the plenary session, for the amendments to the laws relating to the appeal of administrative matters following his speech on the burden of the Curia in the previous year. Although the number of cases has doubled between 2019 and 2021, legislative amendments have allowed them to return to normal by 2022. Ladies and Gentlemen, The most important task of the Curia, based on the Fundamental Law, is to ensure a uniform case-law of the courts. The institution of the new legal unit complaint was set up in accordance with the recommendations of the Venice Commission. The Committee on Justice acknowledged that the Venice Commission also declared the legal unit complaint procedure to be an institution consistent with the consequences of judicial independence and providing legal certainty in the course of its practical implementation. The Committee on Justice welcomed the fact that in this context the Councils of Colleges and Legal Units of the Curia themselves initiated the creation of new decisions on legal units, thereby helping to develop uniform case-law as quickly as possible. The Committee on Justice also learned a summary of the role of the President of the Curia in the control of local government standards. The Committee on Justice expressed its appreciation for the consistent practice of the Curia during the period covered by the report during the control of the regulations of the local government in the special legal order, in particular the regulations relating to the use of public space. The members of the committee asked questions about the experience of the Court in relation to the regularity of municipal or mayoral decisions taken in the special legal order. On the basis of what was said in the debate, the Committee concluded that the professional objectives of the Curia for 2021 had all been achieved. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, at the meeting of the Justice Committee on 15 November 2022, the President of the Curia was entitled B/314. His report was adopted by 8 votes in favour, 1 vote against. The Rules of Procedure of the Judicial Committee are set out in Rule 84 of the Rules of Procedure. H/2018 submitted pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of this Annex. The President of the Curia recommends to this House a report on its proposal for a resolution. Thank you, too, for the work of the Curia in 2021 and, in particular, thank the President of the Curia for his work in 2021. I would ask the honourable Parliament, my fellow Members, to support this report. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-29-4	I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State that he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: No, thank you.]] He says he doesn't want to. In this case, we will continue with the keynote speeches. In this context, I will be the first to address the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, Mr Zoltán Kovács, who will also give his speech on the pulpit. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[9.30]]
u2023-03-29-5	Madam President, Dear President of the Curia, Dear Presents, Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, I am trying to stay within the framework of the report, because we are discussing the Mansion report on a specific subject, the provision of a legal unit and the control of local government standards, so as not to be rebutted by Madam President, that I am different from the subject. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Chairman of the Committee has already presented that the report was discussed in the Committee on Justice in November and has also been proposed for adoption by the Committee. As the President of the Curia writes in the report, I liked this very much: the year 21 is probably entering the history of the Curia as a year of legal unity. Indeed, this is true, because the oral amendment was also a plastic presentation of what had happened, and since then, what progress has been made in this sector at the Curia. After all, in the history of the Curia, competence, operation and work have been shaped by a number of legislative changes, and there has been a CDC that has made it particularly difficult to work in the Curia and in all other courts, and in this context it has been necessary to ensure the unity of the application of the law and to fulfil the specific role of mediator and balancing for the Curia. The Fundamental Law of Hungary, the CLXI on the organisation and administration of the courts, already mentioned. From 2011 and under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, the Curia shall assess the appeals against decisions of the court, the referee, and requests for review; but in addition, it shall, inter alia, take a decision of a legal unit which is binding on the courts, assess complaints of a legal unit, decide on the breach and annulment of the municipal decree of a higher level of legislation other than the Fundamental Law, and decide on the failure of the local government to comply with its legislative obligations based on law. In 2021, i.e. during the reporting period, the performance of the Curia's case-law and legal unit tasks was affected by several legislative changes, as I mentioned. It should be pointed out that, as of January 1, 21st, Bsi was modified. the provisions governing the complaint procedure for legal entities, which is what the President spoke about here in the oral amendment. The amendment clarifies the regulation of the complaint in several respects, such as the Council's decision on a substantive basis in the event of a complaint by unit of law and the order on all other matters. The scope of the attackable decisions is modified by Bsi. provides that a complaint by a legal unit other than a court order may be lodged against a decision of the Curia which may not be contested by a further appeal, a request for review or a request for review pursuant to the procedural law. This makes the possibility of lodging a complaint general. The law makes it clear that the complaint concerning the legal unit is based on a derogation from the decision of the Curia issued after 1 January 2012 and published in the Collection of Judgments of the Court of Justice. The task of ensuring a legal unit, which is the sole responsibility of the Curia within the judicial organisation, requires that the burden of the Curia's judgmental councils remain within a reasonable framework. We discussed this during last year's report, Mr President referred to this on several occasions, but the Act on the amendment of the laws adopted on 17 December 19 relating to the establishment of single-level district office procedures entered into force on 1 April, when it came into force in 2020 and brought about a number of changes that affected the tasks and operation of the Curia in the 21st year. Mr President mentioned, among these, the transformation of the system of administrative justice, the second-degree jurisdiction of courts and judges in administrative and public service matters, and the Curia became a general second-degree court, with jurisdiction throughout Hungary. The experience of the period since the introduction has shown that the burden of the Curia has increased disproportionately due to the change, I am talking about 20-21, and the arrival of the case has also been said to have doubled. This regulation was changed by the Parliament, which led this case-law to a normal course. It was the Venice Commission, which published its opinion CDL-AD (2021) 036, in October 21, and this was a positive assessment of the operation of the Curia on several points. With regard to the institution of the legal unit complaint introduced in 2020, the opinion stresses that the standardisation of case law is a very common competence of the Supreme Courts, the decisions taken serve legal certainty and are in line with the requirements of judicial independence. What we have just said, and will discuss in the accounts of the coming years, is that this has evolved and expanded, and has become even more circumscribed. It should be pointed out that the legal unit is primarily provided in the review procedures. The derogation from the published decisions of the Curia in the procedural laws is the basis for the review, and these rules determine that the Curia's published decisions may be subject to a request for review by reference to a derogation on the issue of law. Compared to this, the complaint on a legal unit is an exceptional procedure for unity of law and redress, which, at the request of the parties to the lawsuit, contributes to them in a way that affects them, and that is what the President spoke about in his oral amendment, not at the level of principle, but in a specific case. At the same time, it is not intended to eliminate the infringement of the rights and interests of the complainant to the subject of the case, but is intended to remove a derogation from the published decision and to provide for a unit of law. This is a very important criterion in the case of a single complaint. In 2021 we received 38 complaints from the legal unit, and Mr President said in what areas, and I do not wish to repeat that. In 21, 26 cases were completed by the Legal Unit Complaints Council, and 22 cases were rejected in 21. Before we think of a big issue, we can talk about the non-payment of the usual levy or, where appropriate, the incomplete payment of the levy, a complaint lodged in the absence of a representative, so the customer, in fact, could say, is due to his slendrianism. With regard to the City Council of the Curia, I would like to mention a few things regarding the control of local government standards. Today, the protection of municipal rights is ensured by the judicial path, in some cases by the constitutional complaint, and the Curia, as a special competence from 2012 onwards, examines the compliance of municipal regulations with higher but sub-standard legislation and the fulfilment of local authorities' legislative obligations, i.e. the control of institutional law enforcement. Although the organisational and powers framework has changed a lot over the past few years, administrative standard control is a Hungarian peculiarity and a Hungarian constitutional right which the President has also spoken about the results of the past long period is certainly to be appreciated. In 2021, 55 cases were brought to the Curia in the framework of the local government standard control procedure, and Mr President explained what they were. [[9.40]] I'd like to start thinking a little earlier from 17:00. There is a statistic that shows that, and the President has also mentioned this, that two-thirds to 70 percent of the cases were usually brought before the court, and this turned to 21th. The main role here was the government offices, if I remember correctly, 67 percent of the government office proceedings. This is due to a number of factors, on the one hand, to the specific legislative situation due to the Covid epidemic. As an example, I can say that there was a settlement in which the mayor of the mine did not manage to transfer the declaration to the mine site until then, because he decided to do so on his own in this procedure, he immediately modified HÉS and local construction regulations, so he had such cases, but that is not the characteristic. As a result, the government offices have decided to do so. In 2021, 35 cases were completed, so this shows their activities. The President spoke of his distribution, and I do not wish to repeat it. Overall, the distribution of cases is more balanced than in the last year. There, I may have always mentioned it myself as the leading speaker at the time, in general, it was tax matters that were the largest subject matter, land tax, municipal tax, and there was a paradigm change in legislation and the decision of the Constitutional Court, in 20, from the 29 completed cases on 13 tax matters. In the case-law of the recent years, the Law C on Local Taxes, Act C. The amendment of Section c) of the Act, which resulted in a reinterpretation of the principles developed in its previous decisions on the proportionality of property-type taxes in respect of the 2017 and subsequent tax years, as this changed, and from 1 January 17 the Act repealed the threefold requirement that the rate of tax had to be determined in line with the local characteristics, the requirements of municipal management and the taxable persons' ability to bear the most important burden. Compared to the new practice, all taxable persons must be subject to a burden-bearing capacity and the level of tax should be determined. The severe disproportionate rate in previous practice amounted to between 60 and 70%. It redefines this and thus the type of tax, the rate of tax, the rate of taxation and the tax relief can be established in such a way as to satisfy, in their entirety, the local characteristics, the management requirements of the municipality and the capacity of taxable persons to bear the burden of a wide range of taxable persons. So the weight shifted from bearing the burden to the world of proportionality, perhaps making the system more even. In accordance with the principle of proportionality of burden-sharing, differentiated taxation means the expression that the municipality takes into account the purpose of the buildings and buildings covered by its jurisdiction, geographical location, traffic values typical of the municipality and the differences in general. Several decisions of the municipal council confirmed or clarified the principles established in previous case-law to determine the differentiation of local taxation. We've been talking about the coronal virus epidemic. Two government decrees have been issued that have significantly limited local government legislation. One was that no tax could be raised and no tax reduction could be abolished, and the other was that the charges for the service could not be increased, and that legislation had to be done within this framework, and that this had its consequences, and now there is local legislative dumping. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, On the basis of what has been said, the oral amendment, as stated by the chairman of the committee, shows that the Curia has performed its duties at a high professional level and in the manner prescribed by law. In view of what has been said, I would ask Members to accept and support the report of the President of the Curia. This is what the Fidesz Group will do, and we support the adoption of the report. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-03-29-6	It is now up to the lead speaker of the DK Group, Mr László Sebian-Petrovsk. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2023-03-29-7	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, It is not the first time that I am forced to begin my speech on a report, my speech, that we have to speak as zero points about how this reporting system makes sense, then it makes sense that a section that has taken place in the life of an institution is responsible, and we are discussing it, commenting on it, criticizing it, and possibly providing them with a better advice, so it makes sense that when reporting and negotiating it as closely as possible in time compared to the reporting period. How can we discuss the year 2021 report here almost a year and a half later? I also know that it took six months for the President of the Curia to submit this last summer, but it has been three quarters of a year since then, while we have just heard that, for example, in the autumn, the Justice Committee had already discussed it, right, we were there myself. I would point out once again that if we want to give any weight to this whole system, if we think that there is practical use and meaning to report the various legally bounds here, then that report must be as close as possible to the reporting period. Once again, as we have done so many times before, we will make certain comments to the cases a year and a half and two years after what happened. But this is a kind of zero point, let's say, you've heard me say this several times, and you'll hear it again today, because today is such a discussion of the 2021 accounts. There's a much more important problem. There's a problem with justice as a whole, there's a problem with the Mansion. If you remember when Varga Zs. Andrew was elected by the Fidesz majority here in the House, not only did DK not support his appointment, but we have also long and every forum to say why we do not support him. We do not support it because we have seen it and the report confirms it, and what has happened since then confirms that it is one of the elements of Fidesz's exercise of power since 2010, another building block. What's this about? After the 2010 elections, Fidesz not only used and occupied positions of power to take over after the election victory, which is naturally an opportunity by law, but also the institutions of the executive branch that should in principle operate impartially, as the SAO and I could say, the NAIH, and then put their hands on justice. With this presence, we are honored by Zs Varga. András is an example of how a Fidesz appointed, a man who executes the orders of Fidesz, is the President of the Curia, who, without any case-law, became a constitutional judge, Péter Polt, who, if I remember correctly, had a right hand for six years, who was also politically appointed, shows that for nine years, an amazing, amazing career, I congratulate him. So when you were appointed or elected, we told you that this is a sign that Fidesz has taken over justice, and that is not acceptable. This cannot happen in a democracy. This is the end of the rule of law, the rule of law that has been spoken so many times and which you have so much loved, and that will be a problem, and that will be a problem, and you will see that there will be a problem. [[9.50]] It would be very easy to put yourself in the role that we told you to do, but what the hell do we do: we told you. Hungary is now in a situation where there is no mention of this in your report, but not even a footnote that Brussels has finally toughened up since last summer, and said that if you are a democracy, you should be a democracy, Hungary, or, if you want to benefit from the common money, you should indeed fulfil the conditions that you agreed on at the time of accession, for example, that there is a rule of law in this country. A significant part of the criticism in Brussels, abroad, is about the judicial system, about the courts, about their political independence; so what is going on today is that Hungary does not receive EU funds because Fidesz has taken over the justice system, it is a reality that is ingrained in our daily lives, and to this you, dear Zs Varga, do not receive EU funds. András, his representative, is an example of an eclatant. There will be a character before this House today, to whom I will say the same, because he is not alone, but there is no doubt that the institution you run and yourself represent this. We could list many, many criticisms, as we are currently at the point where the government is trying not to do so willingly, not because the government thinks that it wants to solve these problems, wants a rule of law again, wants democracy again in the Western sense, not just to build democracy in Hungary as defined by you. So the government is trying to somehow correct its previous missteps, past mistakes, past mistakes, so we know that in January there was a judicial package that would affect the operation of the Curia and other things within the justice system. Now, at the end of March, what we know about this is that it does not fulfill the government's expectations. To say the specifics: among the EU's problems, there is the need to strengthen the independence of judges in Curia from politics, to be more protected from political influence. For example, the judicial package does not affect your mandate or the possible extension of your mandate, so what happens when your mandate as a political candidate expires, and then how the House elects your successor. According to Brussels, this package is not enough to reassure us that its successor will not also be politically appointed. This package does not strengthen the role of OBH. The report is very minimal, perhaps dealing with the OBT and the OBH in half a page, and it has no significant role, while we know that this is already known from the press about the conflicts and disputes that have been opened, especially with OBT, obviously. It began there that OBT did not support your appointment, quite rightly, because it had the power of opinion, and then you were involved in such a hand-by-hand game, you and the OBT; it turned to the Constitutional Court in relation to the Code of Ethics, saying that it would even arise that OBT could not create this; and that we could list these steps in recent years, including 2021, which is covered by the report. Your report doesn't cover this. I understand that you do not speak out, because these are matters that are unpleasant, because they show that here the Curia and your role are politicised; it shows what we are talking about, and what now appears at Brussels level and at international level is that the justice system of which you are one of the leaders is not independent of politics. This particular January package does not settle what we call it, nor does it settle whether or not the retiring constitutional judges can transfer it to the Mansion. We are talking about the constitutional judges appointed by Fidesz, who are retiring political judges, and we are talking about those appointed by Fidesz, quite bluntly and openly politicalally appointed, and the plan is that they should then pass over to the judge of the Curia, of course, because Fidesz is absolutely in line with the power of the Fidesz; faithful people should carry out another task after leaving the Constitutional Court. Now, in January, as I understand it, the January package is about to include the fact that anyone who has already submitted an application or whose process has started should be able to pass through and not be a new candidate at the most. As far as I know, six judges are involved in this or six previous constitutional judges. Brussels continues to say that cases are not signed automatically, not without political influence. I understand, we have now heard from you in the report what mechanism you are trying or trying to explain how this works in your opinion; compared to this, all actors who look at it, whether they see it or look at it as an external observer, say that it is not independent of the political influence. I can tell you, I can see your amazing face, so let me give you a concrete example of DK's life when we sued MTI, more specifically the public media, in several cases because it refused to publish communications, despite the contractual relationship in which we made a negative statement about Lőrinc Mészáros, István Tiborcz, and I might add. We went to trial, and the public media lost first degree in every particular case, there were three such lawsuits in each case, and that, no, the whole case was transferred to Solnos, and from that point on, I was talking about the whole justice system, and the next steps took place on Szolnok. That, no, we lost them all, and then at the Mansion, of course, so the Mansion canceled things in the end. So it is quite clear how the mechanism that we all know in this country works, that there are politically reliable judges, that there are politically reliable judicial councils, that can be relocated, that the Curia plays a leading role in this, that the coordination of the Curia and your role are leading in this. One word, like a hundred, this report contains perhaps a half page at the very end, well at the end of what its goals were in 2021: In this, the goals and achievements are partly half-sided, everything is beautiful and good, but it is not just to maintain or operate a rule of law. If it were, then I could at least say that the account lies there, because there was no concrete action to achieve this goal, or even the opposite. It doesn't even include this, so I can't even say that we could at least find some kind of common line in terms of goals, some kind of agreement could be made between you and your team and DK on what justice in a democratic rule of law looks like or how a rule of law works. We cannot cooperate at the level of targets, and therefore, of course, as last year, we cannot accept the report of the Curia for this year. Thank you very much.
u2023-03-29-8	Among the keynote speeches, Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group, is now coming. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2023-03-29-9	Madam President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to welcome Zs. Varga. Mr Andras, President of the Curia, Vice-Presidents, Head of the College and colleagues. I do not wish to repeat what I have done in my expo as President of the Committee on Justice, nor what my colleague Zoltán Kovács, the speaker of Fidesz, has already said, let me focus on thanks and constitutionality. I would therefore like to express my thanks to you, in particular, in relation to the work of the Curia in 2021 and to Mr President's activities. [[10.00]] I thank you for continuing to ensure the unity of the application of the law of the Court, despite a number of legislative changes affecting the powers of the Curia, its functioning and its workload, unfortunately even in the midst of the epidemic situation that existed at the time, and to fulfil its specific role of mediator and balancing. Well, contrary to these facts, we have just heard an attack, an attack on the part of a lead speaker, on the part of the DK lead speaker, from our fellow Member from Sebian-Petrovsk. This attack was not based on factuality, it was a political attack, and it expressed political pamphlet. Such a political pamphlet is that there is no rule of law in Hungary; I reject that right now. But let's talk a little bit about the rule of law and the Fundamental Law. Here, I must first draw the attention of my honourable fellow Member, DK, to the fact that for me, who is important in the division of power in Montesquieu and important in the separation of individual powers, it was more than odd to hear the Member on the President of the Curia ask what the legislation in force looks like. The President of the Curia and the Curia do not need to create law, but they do apply law, they are part of the judicial power, and if this is coming from the mouth of a Member of Parliament, it is even more strange. According to Article 25 of the Fundamental Law, the Curia is Hungary's supreme court body, and as such it ensures the unity of the application of the law of the courts, and its legal decisions are binding on the courts. It is of the utmost importance that the Curia fully fulfilled its role as required by the Fundamental Law in 2021. Thank you. I would also like to thank the President of the Curia for standing up against voices incompatible with the rule of law and democracy in spite of the threats made by the united left in 2021, because in 2021 there were far more harsh voices than we heard in this Chamber. The Siren voice of the united left came up with the hair-freaking idea in 2021 that if they win in the 2022 Spring Elections with only one person and obtained a half majority, they would abolish the two-thirds law, including Hungary's Fundamental Law, by a half majority. Péter Márki-Zay, the candidate for Prime Minister of the United Left, Klára Dobrev, the list leader of DK, then the MEP Gergely Arató and the dialogueary Timea Szabó supported this idea. I would like to thank the President of the Curia for calling this idea an unconstitutional coup, which has not seen an internal political crisis for decades, and, in the final case, could have caused civil war situations. The united left campaigned as if it were only a matter of courage, by simple majority, to override the two-thirds laws and to abolish the Fundamental Law itself. Mr Gergely Arató, DK MEP here in the House, said that it should be clear that Klára Dobrev will not shake his hand when he has to throw this Fundamental Law in the trash. Ladies and Gentlemen, We are on the side of the rule of law, so we reject all such statements and all attacks on the Mansion and all other institutions. The amazing consequence of the story is that Péter Márki-Zay's ideas on this constitutionality were essentially blessed by the liberal progression in Brussels, since none of the two Commissioners responsible for the rule of law raised objections to this, although it was clear that in the event of a opposition election victory in 2022, the united left would have openly renounced the rule of law in Hungary. I would like to thank the President of the Curia once again for his decisive action to defend the Fundamental Law in 2021. Thank you. In view of all this, I find the attack on the President of the Curia from Brussels and Strasbourg to be a similar, almost literally identical attack by our fellow Member László Sebian-Petrovski, which was said here in the Chamber a few minutes ago. So, for the very part, the very ones from Brussels and Strasbourg who did not speak out against the constitutional coup attempt are attacking it. What does this look like, ladies and gentlemen? ! Mr President, you should know that in your fight to maintain independent justice and to protect the Fundamental Law, you can expect Fidesz-KDNP as well as your adoption of the 2021 report. For your work and the work of the Curia, I ask for the blessing of the Lord. I wish you good health and good luck. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-29-10	Our next speaker is the lead speaker of the MSZP Group, Mrs Zita Gurmai. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2023-03-29-11	Thank you very much. Dear House, There are three very important reports on the Parliament's table: the President of the Curia, the President of the National Court of Justice, and the report by the Attorney General, all of which determine the relationship between Hungary and the European Union, in particular given that the independence of these bodies is essential for the acquisition of EU funds. Thus, these reports should not only be examined in the light of the fact that the Hungarian Parliament was satisfied with the performance of these bodies, because although no one outside the governing parties is obviously satisfied, there is no possibility of any meaningful criticism of the reports and, above all, to achieve some kind of meaningful, positive change within the Parliament. However, it is important to examine these reports in the light of the fact that the Union has made detailed criticisms of the rule of law with these bodies, in particular with regard to their poor functioning and not worthy of the rule of law. This is important, on the one hand, because Hungary voluntarily joined the European Union, in which it committed to respect the legal standards established as a result of millennia of European law, also accepting that their violations could have negative consequences and sanctions. On the other hand, because, since 2010, the opinion of a body that is not under the control of the Fidesz majority has been expressed on behalf of the entire EU citizenship. The report should therefore be examined in such a way that, on the basis of its provisions, these bodies fulfil their function as a rule of law. Varga Zs. The election of Andrew as President of the Curia was scandalous in itself. In order to be able to appoint, a number of laws had to be amended: on the one hand, it had to be possible for members of the Constitutional Court to ask for their appointment to the Curia and, on the other hand, the practice of the Constitutional Court had to be recognised as an experiential time to be taken into account in the Curia's presidential tender. The latter amendment is significant because Dr. Andras Baka, former President of the Curia, I am talking about the period 2009-2011, because he was deprived of his post because he had only constitutional and human rights experience; by the way, his deprivation was unlawful according to the ECHR. At that time, the law was amended to unlawfully remove a president who didn't like him, and then, a few years later, it was modified so that they could appoint someone they liked. [[10.10]] By transforming the Supreme Court into a Mansion, Dr. András Baka lost his post on the grounds that he did not have five years of judicial experience, despite being a judge of the European Court of Human Rights for 17 years. This was then achieved by the majority of governments by the fact that international and constitutional judicial experience was not regarded as judicial experience. However, this rule was changed in 2019 by taking into account the experience gained in the judicial practice of the International Judicial Organisation as a judge, as a chief advisor, as a constitutional judge and as a chief advisor in the Office of the Constitutional Court in the assessment of judicial experience. By applying this rule, Dr. Andras Baka should not have been replaced in 2011, but it resulted in Dr. Zs. Varga. However, Andrew became a candidate for the office of President of the Curia. This, together with the provision that allowed the appointment of constitutional judges to the Curia without limitation, is an extremely damaging result of personalised legislation. This was accompanied by the introduction of a limited precedent system as a tool for political control, which is Zs. Varga. It becomes clear by the appointment of András, as the head of the councils in legal unit cases is the President of the Curia, who thus has direct power to force the Curia and his own will to the lower courts. And the acquisition of the Curia by Fidesz seems to be the result. Let's see the numbers. The judicial activity observed by the public was 40 per cent by 2021, and only 40 per cent of the respondents considered that the independence of the courts was more of a good quality. Even compared to the 48 percent in 2020, this is an extremely large setback, which shows very well Zs Varga. The quality of Andrew's activities. The judicial independence observed by the companies was even lower, with only 32 percent. With regard to the latter data, it is important to point out that these system-preferred companies or those who receive public funds through corrupt public procurement are involved. This assessment data is extremely important because Zs. Varga. András takes the position of President of the Curia from January 2021, so this figure is an opinion on the first year of his activities. According to this opinion, Zs. Varga. With the appointment of András and his first year of operation, he drastically undermined judicial independence in Hungary. There are also extremely serious problems with judicial appointments, where OBT has discovered a number of violations. According to the Council, in both the appointment exercise of the President of the Curia and the appointment practice of the President of the OBH, it can be seen that some applications are evaluated on the basis of unforeseen criteria. Both the President of the OBH and the President of the Curia have circumvented the powers of the OBT codecision. For this reason, OBT first issued a critical opinion in July 2022 against the appointment exercise of the President of the Curia, who in 2021 appointed five judges in Curia by way of unlawful proceedings, bypassing the right to co-decision of OBT. Later, in October 2022, OBT also issued a critical opinion on the appointment exercise of the President of the OBH, who appointed four judges in an illegal manner in 2021, bypassing the right to co-decision on OBT. This has very serious consequences. If the system of appointments and rewards is not transparent, the two top leaders elected by the parliamentary majority, the President of the OBH and the President of the Curia, can bring loyal people to them, the fidesz majority, into the key positions of the Curia and the lower courts, who can keep their subordinates under pressure with reward and other discounts or even with their withdrawal. This pressure also affects the case-law and management activities, as well as the practice of tendering in those courts. It means Varga Zs. András' lack of concern for the real problems, it shows that last year he tried to have a document declaring that his appointment practice for 2021 was otherwise without problems. However, the judges did not support this, but instead of Varga Zs. András would have changed his clearly inadequate practice, but, unfortunately, he continued to do so. The activities of the President of the Curia and the accounts thereof are therefore not acceptable. We can only hope that Mr President will continue his work in the future, bearing in mind the principles of the rule of law. And the majority of Parliament has a responsibility to increase the powers of the National Judicial Council to an extreme extent, so that the body can exercise real control instead of the practice that has given rise to abuse. This is a condition for Hungary to benefit again from EU funds as a whole. It's in everyone's best interest. Thank you very much. [[Laszlo Sebian-Petrovski applauds.]]
u2023-03-29-12	Our next speaker is Mr László György Lukács, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. I give you the floor, please.
u2023-03-29-13	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As an argument about the current account of the Curia, and perhaps it is worth starting with, it is painful that the timing that will be mentioned so many times today, that is, when we are in such a state that we can discuss it or make a decision about it, this is a bit of a mistake. We are also aware, obviously, that a report will be submitted later, less why the plenum will be discussed in spring instead of autumn in the parliamentary system, while the committee has already been able to negotiate it in the autumn. It is also worth looking at the report from the point of view of running the so-called mandatory circles... which is very right, so it reports on the work of the legal unit, the case-law work and practice that was at the Curia and the organizational affairs of the organizational system itself, they are all right. The man seeks to follow them as lawyers, always watch and watch what problems arise in the application of the law that we have created, and how the Curia tries to remedy them in order to standardise judgment, and how this will then affect legislation. It is always worth watching and it is interesting to follow, as this shows the life and development of the law. Lawmaking is about the same as a child's life. At the growing stage, he learns, he evolves, and then when he is in full power, you see what he has evolved into, and you see this in a similar way in the birth of a law, in the application of law, in the unification of case law, and then again in the legislative feedback. So, these parts of the report are okay, I don't want to deal with it too much, I don't see the point of reading the specific passages that are appropriate, with which one can agree. I would rather deal with the few problems that may overshadow the report. There's two of them. One of them wasn't the Curia's fault, it was a gift, it was the period of the pandemic. I will tell you about this later, but it seems that all the bodies involved in the judiciary have had to deal with it, and in all three reports to be discussed today, it will be marked, the Parliament has also had to wrestle in this area, the legislation has also changed in its own way, adapting to the year or two of the pandemic left behind us, and this was particularly the case in 2021. The other is a sadder question, the so-called appointment-gate. The year 2021, which was Mr President's first year and this was the first part of his work, was subject to a lot of criticism. There are many positions in it, whether the Curia, the National Judicial Council or the Helsinki Committee, and therefore the views of both civil and legislative organisations. I have also brought the Helsinki Committee here so that both extremes can be seen in the positions, because it is very important that, if we know the position of the Curia, we also know the position of those who, contrary to that, see in a completely different way how the appointments took place at the Curia. In addition, it is not possible to go, and this was not the development of 2021; it was the development of 2022 that something interesting had happened with regard to the appointment. There may have been a lot of things going on in the Völner-Schadl case, but perhaps it's also memorable that you criticized the appointment exercise. Far be it from me to give György Schadl his word in any way, but he criticized that appointment practice, and in response to the article that criticized it, he did not express his opinion and set the Mansion itself in a very good light and this kind of appointment practice. [[10.20]] It is also about the Hajas Barnabas, whose appointment is already independent of the Schadl case, regardless of this whole appointment mitzvah, that the system is not working properly. I can see Mr. Secretary of State sitting in the seat of the Justice Department, swallowing or sighing in this area. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert's glass showing around: I drank water.]] But the fact is, Mr. Secretary, that you have the Pál Völner, who is involved in this matter, and in his involvement in that case, it seems now that this judge, Mr. Hajas Barnabas, will be summoned as a witness. This is the question, is it not, that if he is summoned to whom his support is; I trust that he will be heard in support of the discovery of the truth. In any case, I say this because this uncomfortable shadow is still cast there in 2021, and although we can say that there is no correlation between these, it points out that it should have been more prudent than that, and that these rules should have been made, not on the appearance of the legality of the court and its legal formation, but on the reality. After all, this argument has been raised many times that, in the end, such an appointment may lead to the doubt that the formation of certain judges or judges in the Curia would not have been lawful. Perhaps this is also important for us to take this seriously, and to think more about it, and we will eliminate the errors in it, because perhaps one of the biggest challenges for every court is that this kind of mandate, that is, the people's 100% confidence that the judgments made there, the decisions taken there, will be taken in accordance with the law and in keeping the procedural and substantive rules... this is perhaps the greatest confidence that the client, the party that is suing there, can put in a court. Therefore, for each appointment, when the President of the Curia is putting this at risk, he must pay particular attention to the integrity of both the Curia and the court sections below. It was a dispute, wasn't it, this year the European interest in either the appointment or the operation of the Mansion. Here it was said that the various bodies of the European Community had an active interest in the Hungarian judicial reform, the functioning of the Hungarian justice system and the rule of law, and, let us say, some of these concerns are justified. It is not possible to go to the extreme position that the European Community can be right in everything and that all of its criticisms, regardless of whether it is worth hearing criticism from those who say and express it in a professional way... it is even important to listen to them. Those who are trying to approach criticisms of the rule of law or justice from the European Community on a political basis must be heard, but it may not be worth it. So I always thought with this question that, if criticism was made, we had to look at who said it, and indeed there was criticism of a place that the Mansion should have listened to and received; and now it seems, in agreement with the European Commission, that there were still legitimate criticisms that would be brought before the House in the coming period in connection with judicial reform or transformation. I don't know to what extent this Mansion will be affected and will be touched at all. I was pleased that there was a rightful criticism of what the Curia said about administrative justice, and I was particularly pleased that, let us say, it showed the good functioning of the legal system, that this criticism finally appeared at the legislator, and that it had succeeded in amending the legislation so that the burden that it had placed on the Curia, and that it had actually prevented work of good quality or better, could in essence be resolved and removed. This is an important feedback from the fact that the organs or courts, the legislation, and indeed, as if every individual Member in himself is also a small legislator, this kind of back and forth communication between the judiciary and the legislature is working here, and it has finally been resolved in a good way, I think. Although it will be seen from the accounts of the coming years that we have successfully and in the right direction resolved the problem of judicial proceedings in the Curia. What has posed the challenges of Covid, perhaps the Curia has so many roles or interests that there have been many changes and this will not apply to 2021, either in relation to the application of procedural rules in a different way, the speeding up of lawsuits, which will certainly raise legal unit issues and legal unit problems later on. If, therefore, we have all survived and survived this very difficult situation, I believe that in the coming years, there will be one in which the Curia will have to guide the way in which the judicial proceedings initiated during the coronal virus epidemic, when they are finally closed, how uniform and how appropriate the application of the law was, but of course, in the OBH's report, it will be necessary to explain how their judgment has evolved during this period. I would also like to add, and it is important to say, here, and perhaps it does not belong to the subject of the report so much that I think it is particularly important that such reports are discussed honestly and fairly by Parliament. Perhaps one of the obstacles to negotiation is, and this is, to the lawyers sitting here, that Parliament has been reduced in its personal composition in recent years from the point of view of lawyers. I would like to say this because I am not fortunate, because I have been lucky to be a Member of Parliament since 2014, then we were here with a number of lawyers and lawyers, and from then on there was a rule that raised a very serious or very strict conflict of interest with Members of Parliament, given that they could not exercise their legal profession. Parliament could benefit, in particular, when we are discussing a report, especially when we are making legislative amendments for the future or the regulation of entirely new legal areas, so that those Members of Parliament who can practice alongside it, who can gain experience from the application of law, have the opportunity to work in this area. I not only consider the rule of conflict of interest to be bad, but also harmful and harmful, to be between the parliamentary representative and the lawyer, because it is safe for an original producer, any other entrepreneur or person involved in an undertaking to be a Member of Parliament to be a Member of Parliament, which has little connection with the legislation, but the profession of lawyer, which is specifically linked to legislation and the application of law, to be completely prohibited by our legal status law. I believe that this would be timely for the legislative process to be reviewed only in terms of the quality of legislation, because it is much better and I think better legislation could then be created, and perhaps less courts would be in a difficult situation in the application of the law, or even in the interpretation of the legislation, and there would be fewer problems for the Curia in the standardisation of the case and the conduct of legal unit procedures. Overall, these criticisms were therefore important because they overshadowed 2021. Thank you for the work that the Curia has done for us before him, about the judgment and the work it has done for the unity of rights, in a fair and honest manner. Thank you very much for being able to endure this difficult time, when everyone had to work a little out of their comfort zone, away from their workplace or in very difficult circumstances, without customers or colleagues. Overall, in the light of all this, the adoption of the report will be considered. The shadowing circumstances and the ongoing amendments to the rule of law with the European Community and to the judiciary should be taken into account when deciding on such a matter. Thank you so much for listening.
u2023-03-29-14	Our next speaker is Congressman István Apáti, lead speaker of our country. I give you the floor, please.
u2023-03-29-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Pre-envelopable pro-government speeches with one-sided praises [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: Be modest!]] and after the more powerful or braked foam, but also rather boring opposition speeches, let's talk about the point. Let's just stick to the facts and forget the stories. The whole story is, ladies and gentlemen, that justice may be the only area that Fidesz has not been able to take effectively enough from 2010 to today. [[10.30]] There is an old struggle between the centre-right, the party alliance or faction association that has been governing for 13 years and the left or even the extreme liberal forces on the far left, because let's be honest that there are still quite a number of judges attached to the past system in the system of justice, either in the public prosecutor's body, but in particular among the judges, who will be able, where appropriate, to make final judgments as a result of many years of proceedings. In this respect, Fidesz cannot be satisfied, nor can the Prime Minister be satisfied. It is probably due to this fact that the appointment may have taken place in circumstances which make it a little uncomfortable for President. I would like to point out to Mr President that I do not wish to be personal, I have no reason to offend you personally, but the facts remain facts; without judicial and judicial leadership practice, one such practice of one day has not been appointed to you. As a prosecutor, he must have had a high fighting value, and as a member of the Constitutional Court, he did well in his work, and I do not wish to doubt that, but the fact is that he was at the head of the Curia without being a judge for a day, and he has not spent a day as a court leader. Those are the facts. It was probably an important aspect of reliability and, where appropriate, political reliability not so much in the background, because even though Fidesz gained a two-thirds majority in the last four elections, apart from the period between February 2015 and March 2018, so out of the last 13 years, it has governed the court system by two thirds thick, and it has not been able to transform the court system in the way it wanted. And there would be nothing wrong with that if, indeed, steps had been taken towards objective, impartial, independent justice. I'd be his most enthusiastic supporter, personally, both me and our country movement. The problem is, however, that this is not really the motivation, not to finally have an objective, independent, impartial justice, let us say, not independent of reality, this would be very important anyway, and not independent of lifelikeness, but to develop a system of judicial organizations, most of which show the majority of Fidesz-KDNP within the body, not the left. That's what I'm talking about. All the rest is bullshit. It's very embarrassing to talk about these things, but it's real. And let me mention to some of the groups of cases to the President that I should not only address a political opposition, in which perhaps, let alone perhaps, quite certain, he would have something to do, and if they were willing to do it well, make substantial progress, then perhaps the following annual reports will be judged differently by the Hungarian Movement than by this 2021 year. Of course, it is also a problem that you have appointed judges in spite of the OBT proposal, but if you have appointed one, or if so, we will clarify this circumstance, and now an excellent occasion this morning or early afternoon, who could not have been appointed with the consent of OBT. If that's not the case, then please disprove it, and we'll clear up an unpleasant matter for you or for you. Without the need for completeness, let me mention an important group of cases. In fact, 2020-2021, the year covered by the report is also the period seriously affected by the World Project Covid, the pandemic Covid. I do not want to go to the bottom of the fact that this was not a medical or health issue in the first place, but an important process of developing a new world order, an important station. In this context, there has been a huge social tension with the obligation to inoculate, and it has created an artificial fault line between the party's vaccinated and uninoculated, and it is possible to require Hungarian people to be vaccinated freely. Many of our countrymen have lost their jobs, many constitutional complaints have been filed, perhaps thousands of Hungarians with the help of the Hungarian Movement. Well, they didn't really express their beneficial effect; it seems that the Constitutional Court was also moved by manual control in a way that didn't properly stand on the side of the uninoculated. There are many harms to interests, many broken careers, illegally terminated employment, and many financial, financial, and economic harm to these matters. With great respect, I would ask the President to consider the possibility for the Curia to look at the possibility that our undisposaled compatriots who have lost their employment, their civil servant status because of this, have been fired from their jobs, can be reinstated, and receive the benefits which they would have been entitled to for the time being lost. Of course, this is a very significant sum of tens of billions, where appropriate, but if there is a resource for so much, unnecessary investment, 3000 billion forints of battery companies, then we will surely find these resources here, whether within the framework of the National Assembly, or if the economic government will find them. We have not heard a single word about the 2011 Mansion report that this was yet a year hit by Covid. And at any time such a so-called pandemic may occur, such a threat may arise at any time, and if we are talking about the introduction of a limited or partial precedent system, it would also be worth making such judgments with precedent, which would significantly increase not only the assessment of judicial operation, but also, in particular, the quality assessment of the Curia and its opinions on the Curia. Then let's look at another group of cases that have been poisoning Hungarian society for over 20 years now, which, at the end of 2001, was partly opened by Fidesz towards the end of the first Orbán government, but the main crimes occurred during Balliberal governments between 2002 and 2010, and this is foreign currency-based lending. I say this because foreign exchange-based lending, because very few in foreign currency were indebted; it was also a huge scam, a fraud to the Hungarian population and Hungarian businesses. Contrary to the government's success propaganda, Hungarians were not rescued. This is not, by the way, the fault of the Curia, nor the fault of the Hungarian judges; this is the fault of the Hungarian Parliament and the majority of the Hungarian governor. At the level of words, they obviously helped a narrow circle, especially those who could manage it on their own, but many, many, hundreds of thousands of our compatriots have not yet been able to escape the trap of foreign credit. They're still being skinned by executors. In this regard, too, there is the idea of the Hungarian Movement; I would like to know what the President might think about this. I'm going to raise that to you, because I'm curious how much a man in such a high position thinks it's feasible or just right. If I said earlier that there were curb-foamed opposition contributions, well, there may have been decisions about the law unit with brake foam during 2021, but they did not say the clear verdicts that would allow the Hungarian people to get out of this trap. The fact that the unilateral transfer of exchange rate risk is practically an instrument of national deduction, a legal usury crime, which is still allowed to date; that executives can work for high commissions, I am interested in the fact that Hungarian people lose their homes or family homes, which are most often their only property, should be said once and for all. Just as I was on my way to this meeting, an excellent citizen of Matthew Salka complained that his mother's house was being auctioned, ladies and gentlemen, that it had already been paid in one amount, that the charges had been paid after the auction notice was published, and that the executive had then received a message that he might now be willing to cancel the auction notice after receiving everything in full. But if it hadn't been for this victimlike, persistent procedure, the auction would have continued even though much of the debts had already been repaid in one amount. The fact that overdue debts can be recovered by executives is a disgrace to Hungarian law. And the fact that one of György Schadl's excellent recordings or an excellent idea of this is, of course, ironically, to say that it is an excellent point to see how absurd it is that they are not obliged to examine the fact that they are already overdue debts. Well, that can only happen in Hungary. And I think that the President of the Curia has something to do in this regard, so that we can save the Hungarian people from this bondage. Or suggest proposals to the Hungarian Parliament, where lawyers have really run out, there are very few representatives with legal qualifications here, so that they cannot at least disallow late claims, hire inks, write out movable or real estate auctions, because that is the case to this day. [[10.40]] Laughing at the hands of executives, who do not need to take exams, can become executives without them. Our Hungary Movement has a simple proposal: this profit-oriented, popular-skinning, pull-down, robbery system should be abolished by a pen stroke, the independent enforcement of the court where state employees work for fixed pay, i.e. they do not become interested in how Hungarian people are robbed, how debtors are looted. It could be the only way. This current judicial enforcement system must be blown up in the figurative sense of the word, ploughed, salted and forgotten for ever. Perhaps there is something to be done in this direction, too, so that anyone who is in custody for a year and a half will not be president of an organizational system, and this system will not be able to continue with the popular, legitimized, usury-criminal action, mainly foreign exchange-based lending, with likely seriously affected players. In this regard, we would very much count on your assistance and your expertise as well as your colleagues, Mr President. And last but not least, in criminal justice or criminal justice, if there is one, then the division of cases is a very high priority here, and, where appropriate, in matters of political interest or political sensitivity, we all know what we are talking about is very important to what judges we are dealing with. In this respect, too, a sharp struggle can arise between the left and the Fidesz, but there are also issues of particular concern, and I cannot help but not bring one of the most important and one of the most recent without the need for completeness. The whole criminal justice system is like a veterinary horse for György Budaházy and his associates. How do you think, Mr President, that for almost a decade and a half, four judgments will be delivered on this matter? The first sentence would impose criminal and serious long-term imprisonments, and then the first sentence would be the most correct, so it annulled the first instance and ordered the court to proceed with a new procedure, and then the repeated first instance would impose more than a hundred years of imprisonment, and then the second second instance would significantly alleviate, but still condemn patriots who, according to the judge's reasons, still have a highly questionable content to condemn to useful members of society. How can the courts judge the same case so differently? Well, if this is like an analysis of the poem in our high school, Mr President, that it depended on individual taste, character, personality, how we wanted to interpret the poet's words about that poem, then there are very big problems in Hungary. And last but not least, let me recommend to you that case, not yet related to your presidential term or the beginning of your presidency, closed a year ago, which has still stinged my eyes and I cannot get to the agenda. This is a serious case in which I will not intentionally tell one of the judging boards which, but I know, of the well-known and misrespected president of an attempt to commit a homicide that could have been closed in eight and a half years with surveillance cameras recording the entire crime, he could write down the following sentence, for which either of us, Mr. President, and I, would have been fired immediately from the legal faculties, we would not have obtained a legal degree in life if we had talked about such things, let's say, in a criminal law test. This sentence was said: From the fact that the defendants who were in significant numbers were listed from the samurai sword to the axe in the direction of the body of the devices, including the victim's vital organs, they stabbed several times, and now listen! It is not yet possible to conclude that they were going to kill him. And for a long time, I don't know that he was still the president of one of the Hungarian judgment boards. So I have only given this as a concrete example, Mr President, that there is a great deal of work to be done, and that it needs to be cleaned, preferably regardless of political attitude, the Hungarian judicial system, so that citizens' belief in the Hungarian court is somehow tried to return. Thank you very much. [[István Szabadi applauds.]]
u2023-03-29-16	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the keynote speeches, and no one has applied for any further speeches. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to take this opportunity. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application, so the joint general debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur for the report and he will already indicate, Mr President, that he wishes to respond to what he has said; he has a 30-minute timeframe for this. Once again, you have the opportunity to answer the question on the pulpit. I ask you to come to the pulpit and give the floor to President András Varga. [[Dr. Zsolt András Varga enters the pulpit.]] Here you go.
u2023-03-29-17	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Parliament, Thank you for your comments, which have been made, regardless of their critical nature, if they could be accepted. Thank you, of course, for your support, but I also thank you for considering the adoption of this report by someone or one of the political groups. I will first answer the questions to which I can answer, and I will say the rest very, very briefly, in summary terms. The first question concerned local taxes, Mr Zoltán Kovács indicated a change in this regard. Yes, the Constitutional Court has started to tighten its practice of when a local tax is considered to be confiscating, i.e. when there is such a degree of taxation in the bands, in the area of location within the band, in the case of exemptions, which does not even consume property within a year, but within two to three years. This obviously also affected the functioning of the Council of the Curia and the practice of the Constitutional Court had to start. Of course, it is important to know that the higher a court takes a decision, the more abstract it is, the Constitutional Court could therefore decide what it had to do, and the Curia had to translate it for further cases. However, there is no doubt that this action against the confiscating tax character also clearly follows the guidance of the Constitutional Court in the practice of the Curia. With regard to these tax substitutions, the written part of the report contains quite detailed information, obviously it will contain even more detailed information for the following year, so it will be seen where the Curia had to say that the laws are to be observed even if they cause great difficulties to anyone, if any, to a local government. I accept the very first of his criticisms with due respect, and therefore the fact that the report of the Curia is late before the Parliament is true. For the record, instead of being 30 years old, it is a ten-year exercise, because in the past only information had to be submitted, now a report on two issues. What I can tell you is that I'm ahead of the review, so we're gonna try to do it sooner this year. The reason why I went to meet my colleagues is because they know I've been asking for two years, and let's try to make it by the end of the first quarter, so that it's not up to us when Parliament will discuss it. This is not possible because 90 judges and a total of 300 people, written by 10-15 and slowly completed, so, let's say, statistical data are not available before the end of January. It starts in February when my colleagues turn this into a text, so it can't be much earlier. But once again, the first time we had to submit the 2020 programme, I said that summer was a little too much. No legislation obliges us to speed this up, but we will speed it up. So that's definitely true. The account obviously doesn't say a lot of things, and I don't really know what to say about that right now. I will not begin to explain why the report on 2021 does not mention the events of 2022. As much as could be said within the framework of the report, I tried to say it as an oral supplement. [[10.50]] Thank you, Mr Vejkey, for recalling the situation, the circumstance under which the Curia had to prepare for the 2022 elections. As far as I know, the Curia's work on this matter has not been criticised. Therefore, in the circumstances indicated by the Member, we have carried out our duties independently and fairly. Let me now reply to one of Mr Luke's comments in advance. He said that there was much on the election of the President of the Curia, including the opinion of the President of the Curia. I am obliged to say that I did not read the opinion of the President of the Curia, and the explanation is that the Parliamentary Journal of the 2018-2022 parliamentary term contains sections 33 140-33 147 and columns of what I said in the last report. Congressman, the election of the President of the Curia does not belong to the President of the Curia, so we have never had or will not have a public reaction to this. [[Dr. István Apáti: Good, good!]] Obviously, there is a consequence of this that since I have to submit a report, and since I cannot comment on the circumstances of my own election, so basically everyone is free to abuse me, I will not be able to refuse it, nor have I refused personal abuse ever. But to continue with the comments: thank you, too, Mr President, and you will understand this further in the light of my last sentence, I would like to underline, thank you, Member, that you believe that the Curia has done its work honestly. This is of great importance. I can also give Mr Abbot a few specific points. If you will allow me, I will not respond to the details of the appointment exercise in the same way as I will do to the speaker, Members. All I can tell you is that I haven't appointed any judges anywhere; the explanation for this is that I don't have that kind of authority. So that's the truth. But the point of this is that the fact that a judge is legally or not legally appointed can only be determined by a court. No such judicial decision has been taken by the service or other courts concerned, and the explanation for this is that no such proceedings have been initiated. I'm not gonna appreciate that fact, I'm just telling you the fact that it's because it's been said. On the other hand, with regard to the procedures relating to the affairs of the undisposals: you must understand, Mr President, that we all know that such procedures are in progress, but I cannot give an opinion on the ongoing procedure here or elsewhere. Completed, so I can make decisions and comment on them. In the case of foreign currency-based lending, Jpe is also mentioned in writing. I.60.015/2021/15. This issue is dealt with in the Unified Legal Complaint Decision. It has taken over the most distant framework the Court of Justice of the European Union has said in this round and has accordingly ordered the previous legal unit decisions of 13 and 14 respectively. What the Curia can do in this situation, the Curia will do in this situation. Since then, there have been ongoing review procedures for foreign exchange-based lending and otherwise legal unit complaints. I cannot comment on these, in particular because my report may cover only two issues: not administration, not generally judgment, but legal unit work or municipal work. Of course, this may also be odd, there is no such thing as a President of the Court in Parliament to report on decisions taken by other councils, and then the Parliament will vote on this. Yes, Honourable Parliament, that is what the Hungarian Fundamental Law and Hungarian laws say, and that is why we are ahead of it, but I cannot go beyond the borders. So I can report and answer what is in these two areas. The other particular element is anomalies related to executives. Here I have one thread, one detail, although it does not concern 2021. It will also be available on the Curia's website within days, and I will also say the number in the Hungarian Gazette, Jpe. IV.60.028/2022. I do not know the serial number of the legal unit decision, which clarifies, inter alia, the question of the procedure in which, if the auction is ordered as a result of the execution procedure, the debtor pays his debt before the auction is actually carried out, the procedure in which this question can be settled. So if we get a case before us, we will try, as usual, to look at it legally and fairly, and try to make a decision on a specific review or legal unit, which will solve the specific issue, and obviously in legal units, which is usually suitable for the whole country in order to deal with the situation, but of course I cannot say anything else about it. Also, I cannot say anything about a criminal case in progress, for two reasons: because it is ongoing or because it is not subject to the report. I must ignore the criticism of the composition of the court organisation, with the permission of the Member. So these were the questions I was able to answer at my best effort. Let me give you a summary of all the other questions that I can't answer. I just gave you the page number from last year's parliamentary diary, and you can read what my position is about political attacks, political debates, political objections. Out of respect for the Honourable Parliament, I will not repeat this now. If anyone wants to read this, I wrote it there. Therefore, I would like to thank you once again for your attention and to end with the time provided for your answer, in a saving way, by saying that there is a problem in the Curia and that there is a problem in the justice system, I would like to reassure Hungary as a whole: there is nothing wrong with the Curia and there is nothing wrong with the Hungarian justice system, despite the fact that a lot of people are working on causing problems. But, of course, judges and justice as a whole, including court leaders, will make every effort to ensure that no minework can cause any harm in the administration of justice. If there is a problem, then, of course, we will try to eliminate it as best we can. As I said, of course I can be dishonored, but, honourable Parliament, what happened in this Chamber today was a violation of the Curia, a violation of the judges of the Curia in such a way that they are not here and cannot answer it. It takes a great deal of effort not to use adjectives about what this is, but I also believe that respect for this House allows me to reject this most infuriatedly in the name of all the judges of the Curia. All the judges of the Curia are doing their job fairly, and criticizing the operation of the Curia as a court in this way is, in my view, wrong. Thank you very much. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]] [[11.00]]
u2023-03-29-18	I will ask the author of the decision. Congressman Imre Vejkey indicates that he wishes to respond. As Chairman of the Judicial Committee, you have the opportunity to do so, also within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2023-03-29-19	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear President of the Curia, The representatives of the opposition parties who spoke as lead speakers also pushed what the OBT falsely suggested at the time, the issue of legitimacy, the question of Mr President's legitimacy. And what was even more amazing was the mine work we saw in front of the Mansion. We reject this; we must reject it because it is unprecedented. And indeed, as Mr President said, with this attitude, the opposition has violated the Mansion here. I apologize for that on their behalf, too, from the Mansion. The opposition is in serious debauchery. But the OBT itself is also in serious misrepresentation; when it made this decision, it was a serious misrepresentation. The opposition representatives who have spoken are in serious disenfranchised because they had the right to vote under the law to accept the candidate's identity or not to accept the candidate's identity, and this vote was legitimately taken. Then I set this question in such a way that it was not so, it was more than false, it was unreal. On the part of the OBT, this is because the Varga Zs. has acted as a political organisation, over and above its own powers. When drawing up his professional position on the Curia Presidency of András. The de facto fact that OBT withdrew from its competence implies that it could not have been relevant to its opinion in this respect. The rule of law, ladies and gentlemen, means that, for all public bodies, it means what the law empowers him to do. You, fellow Members, have not been authorized by anyone to abuse the Curia and the President, which is why I apologised on your behalf. You could have delivered an opinion on the 2021 report. That's all your jurisdiction would have covered. OBT should have examined only the candidate's identity, i.e. his professional competence, but they bypassed these criteria. Like DK and the Soros network, all opposition parties in this Chamber have now tried to re-politize this issue, this professional issue, in line with DK. They tried to repolitize the professional question of how the Curia did its law enforcement work, its judicial work. You guys politicized this. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) The horse's foot hangs out best there when the constitutional question of the Hungarian laws in force begins to be asked to prove it, Zs. Varga. Andrew was not legitimate and would not have met these criteria. I refuse to do this because it's another false claim on your part. But if you have brought this up, allow me to stress, despite all your opposing siren voices, that the Constitutional Court itself is also a court where you served as a judge in the past, Zs Varga. Mr Andrew [[Dr. László György Lukács: That's not true!]] Since 2012, the Constitutional Court has acted as a judge. [[Dr. László György Lukács: That's not true!]] Even though my colleague, Mr László György Lukács, says that this is not true, I would like to stress once again that the Constitutional Court is also a court, because since 2012 it has actually been a judge, and likewise the real constitutional complaint is an appeal. You can say otherwise to the facts, but the facts are stubborn things, my honourable fellow Member. As a result of the fact that constitutional judges are judges, there is no substantial difference in judgment. Each judge is subject to the law and his conscience. You can't just yell at me right now, my fellow Member, on the other hand. The opposite opposition position contains factual error when referring to Zs. Varga. Andrew wouldn't have a judicial administrative record, because he did and he does. And that the opposition was Zs. Varga. He also questions Andrew's independence, an even more serious problem, which I also reject. I refuse, and I would stress the fact that Zs. Varga. President András has been operating in independent constitutional institutions throughout the last quarter of a century, representing them in full legal terms. Varga Zs. András has demonstrated his independence in his activities so far, and it is also certain that the international Soros network has no influence on him. Well, that's your problem. That's your real problem. That's why they're attacking Mr. President, and that's why they're attacking the Mansion. It is also important to emphasise what you are trying to wash away and indicate differently that the President of the Curia is not a royal position, as you say. It's not a royal position, because it doesn't tell us what judgments are made in different cases. The President of the Curia acts in councils of three and five, only one member of the council and has one vote. Therefore, the President of the Curia has mainly administrative tasks and cannot interfere with a specific matter. All of their contrary claims are completely false and untrue. I should also draw your attention to the fact that Amnesty International, financed by György Soros, on the day before the Justice Committee meeting, when we are the candidate for President of the Curia, Zs Varga. We have heard Mr András before the Justice Committee, imagine that he has posted on his website what questions left-wing Members should ask the President of the Curia. Don't you think that's amazing? 'Cause for my part, I think it's a massive attack on the National Assembly. Do you think this is the rule of law? Well, gentlemen, no, you're wrong. Therefore, I can only stress that I thank the President of the Curia for his work, thank you for the work of the Curia, and we will support the 2021 report. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-29-20	I would like to thank Mr Vejkey, President of the Committee on Justice, for his replies to the discussions. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general discussion of the 2021 report of the President of the National Court of Justice and of the proposal for a decision on its adoption until closure. [[To Dr. László György Lukács:]] If you don't mind, Congressman, I'll finish it immediately, thank you very much for your attention. Report submitted by the National Court Office B/1655. and the proposal for a decision submitted by the Judicial Committee, H/2016. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr. György Barna Seneyei, President of the National Court of Justice, author of the report. Mr. President, please proceed to the pulpit. [[11.10]]
u2023-03-29-21	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Members of Parliament, I will try to keep the report for the year 2021 short of what is possible, as the details of this report have been submitted in writing. On 10 December 2019 the National Assembly elected me President of the National Court Office, so I will report on the general situation of the courts for the fourth time and on the administrative action of the court. This is an interesting phenomenon that I report for the fourth time, but 2021 was the second year when I had a direct role in the central administration of the courts. Time passes, 2021, if we consider it a long time ago, but I do not need to remind anyone that the year 2021 was also affected by the epidemic, which obviously affected all areas of life, all professions, all occupational sectors, and so, of course, the judicial organization was deeply affected, and the central administration had to endure during the pandemic. Protecting the health of clients and court workers was a primary priority, while the courts were constantly available, accessible, and the courts were able to fulfil their constitutional role in the middle of the epidemic. In 2021, we remember multiple outbreaks of the virus, marked with brutal numbers. At the time of the pandemic, the case-law and administrative activity, training, meetings, so everyday work took place in the digital space as far as possible. There were times when several executive meetings were held daily to determine the epidemiological measures. This period was a challenge for central administration, court leaders, judges, judicial staff and, of course, for legal representatives and customers both through the negotiations and through the search for rights. The operation of the courts, as you know before, was continuous, the courts fulfilled their obligations under the Fundamental Law; only one number: during the pandemic in 2021, the courts completed more than 1 million 230 thousand cases, which exceeded 2.9 percent of the number of cases received. This means that the backlog also decreased during this period, i.e. in 2021. In 2021, it was fully demonstrated that the steps towards digitalisation were not in vain, that digital solutions in the epidemic situation were particularly appreciated and that the daily functioning of the courts was significantly facilitated. I may not be running forward in time if I say that progress in digitalization must be kept in the future, when, if the Good Lord helps, and perhaps the pressure of the virus and at all the protection of the virus may become of secondary importance, then access to the court and the economy. In 2021, the distance hearing systems are available in all courts in the country, and in 2021 the court organisation provided for the purchase of an additional 30 mobile termination points. The number of distance hearings has also increased exponentially over the last three years, three times in 2020 compared to the previous year, while in 2021 the number of distance hearings in the courts has increased by more than four and a half times. These numbers are still remembered in 19 of the last year before the pandemic, in 2019 6426, in 2020 20 569, and in 2021 29 157. Obviously, what cannot be exposed is the lack of smooth use of remote listening. Here, as in any other area of life, there were problems, and we have been constantly working to improve them, and according to the judiciary and the law-seeking audience, remote listening has become practically indispensable in everyday work. The pandemic obviously also had an impact on judicial training, the education with personal presence was cancelled and moved to the digital space. Despite the easing of the epidemic, the justification for the long-term maintenance of digital training has become clear, and overnight training continues to take place in the online space, while we return to personal presence in terms of multi-day training. In the year 2021, 1 201 711 cases were brought to the courts, which is 3.3 percent more than the year 2020. The national case conclusion: 1 235 984 cases were completed in the courts in 2021, well above 2020. National backlog: at the end of 2021, there were 15.3 percent less cases than at the end of 2020. In the first instance, the backlog was reduced by 23,8 percent and by 10,6 percent in district court courts. Every year we have to mention the central region, there is no change compared to previous years in the fact that the courts in the central region of the country, the Capital Court, the Metropolitan Tribunal and the Budapest Surrounding Court are the most overwhelmed, with the arrival of nearly 40 percent of the national arrival. This reported 444 910 cases in 2021. Obviously, when it comes to the operation of courts, timeliness is an important issue. High professional and timely judgment is the fundamental and most important task of the courts. Even in 2021, the priority was to improve timeliness and reduce the number of protracted cases. In 2021, the vast majority of the trials, 86,6 percent, were completed within one year of arriving at that level of judgment and six months on the judging boards. In the second half of 2020, a measure aimed at reducing long-term litigation was introduced, which continued in 2021. This had an impact on the decrease in the average trial duration of cases. The number of long-term cases, i.e. over two years in the first instance, beyond one year in the second forensics, over six months in court, shows a decrease of 18.8 per cent compared to the previous year, from 6324 to 5137. The proportion of prolonged cases has decreased compared to all pending cases at all level of the case-law. For cases over five years, the number of cases over five years has decreased by 9.8 percent compared to the end of 2020 from 738 to 666. A comparative figure is that in 2018 this figure was still 1001. Obviously, we cannot be satisfied with this number, perhaps the downward trend can give us some reason to be satisfied. Reasonability should be examined and taken into account in a number of ways. It is an indication of the social acceptance of court judgments if as few cases as possible are raised, i.e. the public seeking rights accepts the rise of cases to legal force. [[11.20]] The vast majority of the judgments are born at district court level in civilist cases. In this category, at the end of 2021, the ratio of the increase in legal force was 93.1 percent. The other, which is also a significant evidence of justification, is the repeal rate. This indicator improved in 2021 compared to the previous year. For example, in civilist cases, it decreased from 8.5 percent in the previous year to 8 percent in relation to district courts and second degree forensics. The unity of law and the quality of judgment. In the year 2021, the Constitutional Court received 28 judicial initiatives for individual norm control, and 31 court cases referred to the application of unlawful law in the context of a constitutional complaint. A total of 475 cases were challenged before the Constitutional Court for the judicial decision considered to be unlawful. In doing so, 23 decisions were annulled. I believe that this ratio is encouraging and that we will not miss the top effective category in a European comparison. I informed the Parliament in writing that, in 2021, two new Cabinets were created to carry out a case-by-case or permanent task. They put forward proposals for their activities, gave a resolution or had the power of opinion on administrative and professional matters relating to the organisation and functioning of the courts. Such is the cabinet supporting the establishment of a staff management cabinet or the rules of procedure of the labour colleges of the referee boards. Even in 2021, the Cabinet of Children's Rights, the Crisis Cabinet and the rules for evaluating judicial work continued its work. Some figures on human resources: at the end of 2021, 11,618 people worked in the judiciary, of which 2745 are judges, 989 are court secretaries, 212 are court writers, and 7672 are judicial employees. Proposals and appointments are obviously significant in the functioning of the courts. In 2021, 33 applications for employment were evaluated and 221 applications were received. As a result of the tendering procedure, I submitted a proposal for the appointment of 7 judges to the President of the Republic, in 25 cases I decided to transfer the already appointed judge to another place of service, and in one case the declaration of failure was made. In the case of 30 job applications, I have taken a decision according to the ranking established by the Judges. In two cases, I presented myself to the National Judicial Council. In one case, OBT is 50/2021. In its resolution No 85/2021, it did not agree with the President's motion, whereas in the other case, 85/2021, it did not agree with the President's motion. It agreed with the motion. I've made a decision with the consequence of that. At the end of 2021, he was 794 court leaders in the court system. The President of the OBH shall have the power of appointment of 121 of them. In 2021, 39 cases of appointing head of the court were subject to a tendering procedure, of which 15 were vacant before 2021. In 2021, out of the 34 proposals evaluated, 27 were appointed and 7 were declared unsuccessful. In two cases, there was a lack of a tender, in four cases a lack of majority support for the opinion bodies, and in one case another reason. In all cases, the appointments were in line with the proposals of the arbitration panel. The management of the court organisation. The budget provided by the Finance Act increased to HUF 140 billion in the course of the year, as always in previous years. The highest amount of expenditure appropriations was provided by staff allowances. Speaking of 2021, we should mention the judicial salary reform. The second phase of the court's salary settlement took place from 1 January 2021, thus the salary of the judges increased by 45 per cent on average compared to the period prior to the introduction of the salary reform and by 12 per cent the salary of the judicial staff. On the 15th day of June 2021, the third stage of judicial salary settlement was completed by the adoption of the 2022 Budget Act and the 13 percent increase in the judicial salary base as of 1 January 2022. We need to talk about priority purchases. During the pandemic period, health protection was a priority and the judicial body spent HUF 80.4 million on the control of the epidemic in 2021. Subject: There were 185 buildings in 113 cities with 462 220 square metres of floor space in the management of the court's organization, of which 154 buildings actually served legal purposes. In 2021, priority projects were the Kuria project related to the Kossuth tér Palace of Justice, the development of the headquarters of the Budapest Surroundings Tribunal, the energy development of the Baja, Komló District Court and the planning of the development of the Nyíregyházi, Egri, Gyula Tribunal and District Court as well as the planning of the development of the Ozd District Court. Excellent construction works, investments in 2021 are the new building of the Balatonszemes Training Centre, the Érd District Court and the Érd District Public Prosecutor's Office, the Ráckeve District Court, the Gödöllő, Deer, Balatonfüred Legislative Place and the Csorna District Court. IT. The objective of judicial information technology is always to simplify the process and process. In 2021, 2592 workstations were upgraded, 17 540 virus protection licences were renewed and 30 mobile remote listening endpoints were obtained. The so-called ITR, i.e. the system supporting judgment, has been further developed. The proceedings brought against the courts are always part of the report. In 2021, 495 lawsuits were brought against the courts, with a total of 525 cases pending at the end of the year, and usually most types of cases were litigation for damages, labour litigation and public interest data. In addition to OBH's representative activities, six out of 234 final cases were closed with the stay of the courts, i.e. about 97 percent of the actions were not conclusive. During the reporting period, the courts were obliged to pay HUF 4 910 530. The disciplinary position of the judges: 11 judges received written warnings, 2 judges suspended their immunity by the President of the Republic, and 4 judges were subject to infringement proceedings. I've already spoken about the remote audition. Some data that may be considered interesting: in 2021 more than 21 thousand loaded persons, 3100 persons subject to infringement proceedings and 2100 witnesses were heard by the courts in addition to a number of experts, defendants and plaintiffs. Central training. I stressed that presence training was not carried out, but 354 events were held in the digital space and 33 304 participants were held. The focus topics in vocational training were changes in legislation concerning civil and criminal proceedings, training needs generated by new legal material in the event of an emergency, and training courses for the judicial profession. About training trips, with 145 participants in 136 international training courses and events, 38 of them were personally involved in all in 2021 and 98 were held online. [[11.30]] About the job application for authors: in the first half of 2021, 20 job vacancies were issued, for which 56 applications were submitted. In the second half of 2021, 67 applications were received for 22 posts. In the first half 20 judges were appointed in the second half and 21 in the second half. According to Article 25 (5) of the Fundamental Law, the President of the OBH performs the central tasks of the administration of the courts, while the National Judicial Council supervises the central administration of the courts. These provisions of the Fundamental Law are contained in the Bsi. And the Bjt. the provisions of this Regulation shall contain the content, specifying the tasks and powers. On the part of the OBH, cooperation with the participating administrative and intermediate organisations, including the National Judicial Council, continued in 2021. In 2021, the OBH-OBT's relationship system had jurisdiction disputes, mainly due to differences in legal interpretation between the President of the National Court Office and the OBT, and within the relevant legislative framework there is no forum for resolving the conflict of interpretation of legislation, and consequently the difference in interpretation of legislation has been maintained. There were no major disruptions in the relationship system, by the way. In 2021, more than 70 percent of the proposals made by the President of the National Court of Justice and I were accepted by the National Judicial Council, the budget of the National Judicial Council was provided, and technical conditions of both physical and other nature were provided, and an agreement was also reached on the financing of the website. Dear Parliament, I have already mentioned in the introduction about the disease management, its difficulties, but I have not yet mentioned the most important measure, because it is very important to mention from 2021 that the judicial vaccination has also been organised. I think this was the most important measure of the year, because if we were able to save just one person's life, the year 2021 could be considered a success. In 2021, we made a joint presentation with the President of the Curia and the Chief Prosecutor on the prioritization of vaccinations in daily life, working relationship and court exposure, and this was the first introduction of vaccinations in spring 2021 in March. I consider this perhaps the most important measure from 2021. I respectfully reserve the rest of my written submissions, and I do not wish to repeat them further here. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-29-22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, President of the Committee on Justice, the author of the motion for a decision, who wishes to give his speech on the bench. You have the floor, Mr. President.
u2023-03-29-23	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome Mr György Senyei, President of the National Court of Justice and his fellow Members, to the plenary session of the Parliament. The 2011 CLXI on the organisation and administration of the courts. Law 76. Pursuant to paragraph 8 (c), the President of the OBH submitted to the National Assembly the B/1655 on the activities of the National Court of Justice in 2021. The Court of Justice of 15 November 2022 held its report on the subject, which was discussed as a committee appointed at its meeting on 15 November 2022. Ladies and Gentlemen, Under the authority of the Fundamental Law, the President of the National Court of Justice shall perform the tasks of the central administration of the courts. On the basis of the above, the Judicial Committee has heard a detailed report on OBH's activities in 2021. As the president of the OBH said here at the plenary session, he also informed us at the committee meeting that, unfortunately, even in 2021, the coronal virus pandemic had a fundamental impact on the functioning of the courts. Ladies and Gentlemen, The President of the National Court of Justice was therefore required in 2021 to ensure the proper and smooth functioning of the courts in order to carry out their duties under the Fundamental Law in full so as to protect the health of the judges, judicial staff and law-seeking citizens involved. The smooth operation has been ensured by Mr President, and we congratulate him on that, and it has not been an easy task. This smooth operation is shown by the fact that the number of pending cases has decreased at almost all level of the case, especially in cases with a prolonged trial duration, with a decrease of more than 18 per cent compared to previous years. The Committee on Justice notes that the number of cases completed has continued to exceed the number of cases received, as in the previous year 2020. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Committee on Justice welcomed the fact that the courts were able to broaden their digital competences in the epidemiological situation. The pandemic has accelerated the process of using the remote hearing system in four and a half times more cases than in 2019. Ladies and Gentlemen, According to President György Seneyei, access to the courts is based on electronic procedures, contacts with e-administration. This is supported by the fact that, in 2021, 2 066 683 e-submits were sent to the courts. The Committee on Justice recognises and notes the continuation of the development of the system of support for the case-law, the widespread use of electronic administration services, e-complaint, litigation calculator, customer file access system and bankruptcy portal. The Judicial Committee has also been informed about judicial posts and judicial lead applications, including issues of competence with the National Judicial Council. The Judicial Committee welcomes the results of the judicial salary reform in 2021 and expresses its hope for a subsequent continuation. The Judicial Committee considered it particularly important to implement timely and high-quality judgment at all judicial levels, in terms of transparency, predictability and control of the judicial and judicial work. Thank you. [[11.40]] Ladies and Gentlemen, The members of the Judicial Committee asked Mr President questions about the appointment of judges, applications for employment, cooperation between OBH and OBT, the problem of reporting judicial conflicts of interest, bias and the choice of a judicial profession. On the basis of the responses made in the debate, the Committee concluded that the technical objectives of the OBH for 2021 have all been achieved, one by one. Congratulations! Ladies and Gentlemen, On the basis of the above, at the meeting of the Judicial Committee on 15 November 2022, the President of the National Court Office B/1655 of 2021. His report was adopted by 8 votes in favour, 1 vote against. The Rules of Procedure of the Judicial Committee are set out in Rule 84 of the Rules of Procedure. H/2016 submitted pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act. In its proposal for a resolution, the president of the OBH recommends the report to this House for adoption. Please support me. Thank you very much, President OBH, for your work. We wish you good health and success. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-29-24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Répássy Róbert, Secretary of State, if he would like to speak at the stage of his debate. [[For signal:]] Mr State Secretary points out that he does not wish to speak at this stage of the debate. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Demeter, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2023-03-29-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear President, György Seneyei, At its meeting on 15 November 2022, the Committee on Justice of the National Assembly discussed in great detail the 2021 report of the President of the National Court of Justice, which was deemed to be admissible by the Committee. It can be said that the account before us is thorough and covers all relevant issues. I would like to emphasise this because it has been said in several cases that opposition representatives only make criticisms in their comments, or it is also a sad fact to me that parliamentary factions are not present in this report in Parliament, because they do not consider the appointment of either the President of the Curia or the National Court of Justice; we are talking about parties whose support is less than 1 percent, they are immeasurable, and they are sitting on someone's back. We people, however, feel that, in addition to criticism, sometimes it is good for us, as Members, to have one word of thanks, and that is what has already been said here. I would also like to express my thanks to Mr President, precisely because, as I have said, he is thorough, and all the relevant issues are covered by the report and the comments made in the speech. The Justice Committee has therefore put forward the proposal in this light. I think it is very important to emphasise that the National Court Office must primarily provide the courts with personal and material conditions. This report shall provide sufficient information on the effective work carried out by officials and seconded judges in 2021. The biggest challenge, as has been said, in the operation of the court organisation, since 2021 was the epidemiological situation, and we know that it has caused many difficulties not only in the individual family life of people, when the saddest of people had to live, had to say goodbye to family members, but it has also cut jobs, because people have passed out not only for days but for weeks. And I am happy to say from the report and from what I have heard here, and we can even conclude that the Court of Justice has been able to cope in this difficult situation, a very eloquent proof of which is that more than 1 million 230 thousand cases have been completed in the courts, which is 2.9 percent higher than the case, and thus the number of pending cases has been further reduced. The smooth and efficient conduct of cases is the cornerstone of well-functioning and predictable justice. In the last few years, it is also important to emphasise this, especially as the years go by, how essential electronic administration is, how essential it is to develop infrastructure and digitalisation. This is why I consider it important to point out that 2592 outdated court workstations have been modernised at national level in 2021, and 30 mobile video communication endpoints have been purchased, which are also suitable for remote listening, image and sound recording, as well as for hearing a protected person. The use of the system is shown by the fact that, in 2021, the number of courts has probably increased by more than four and a half times compared to 2019. It is also good to see that new generations, i.e. younger ones, are increasingly at home in digital space, and fast and simple administration is expected of all services and is thus expected in court proceedings. I also think it is important to emphasise that the system of the court must be adapted to changing social and economic expectations, which has been accelerated by the epidemiological situation. The developments in the report will help the future digital system to succeed step by step. It is also welcome that, in 2021, the National Court of Justice Office has put great emphasis on the provision of training, scholarship programmes and applications. Appropriate professional skills and up-to-dateness are essential at all levels of the court, the judge. These trainings contribute to the ability of the judicial organisation system to fulfil the obligation of Article 25 (1) of the Fundamental Law of Hungary, i.e. to carry out timely and high-quality case-law activities. Dear Parliament, On the basis of what has been said, it can be concluded that the President, alternates and staff of the National Court of Justice have been able to carry out their duties effectively. In the light of the results learned in the report and practice, of course, the head of the National Court Office, its staff and all their work should be thanked for this. I therefore respectfully ask my fellow Members to adopt the report and support the proposal for a decision. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-29-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Sebian-Petrovszki, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go. [[11.50]]
u2023-03-29-27	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, We are discussing, let's say, of the three judicial stakeholders, the report on which, years ago, when the President of the National Court Office was appointed, our position was that, although we did not support him, we should wait for the office to work in practice, or for the effect of the new leader. There is no doubt that the last of the three leaders, that is to say, as opposed to the leader of the Curia, who had just been welcomed by some of us, and to the soon-to-be-coming Peter Polt, are the least significant indication that he has a political record or a history of political influence, we said when it happened. We were also very pleased that it was then said that the National Court Office was trying to put its relationship with the OBT on a new footing, and I think that even the first reports may have included this sentence, but I have certainly read it from Mr President. Compared to this, we are now at a point where, on the basis of recent developments, it is not visible, and Mr President, in his report, mentioned this frankly and openly, that the conflict between OBH and OBT would have been resolved or resolved. Neither in 2021, nor in the reporting period, nor now. Obviously, we feel precisely, we know that this kind of relationship is woven through politics, we understand that this kind of conflict has not only professional and not only human or personal, but also political reasons, but also a very serious criticism and problem with the OBH that this is the case. Compared to this, I found in the report a half page on this issue, perhaps towards the end, after page 70, there is a half page and rather a piece of legislation on what kind of relationship the other way is or should be based on the rules. So the problem itself is not affected, it is not explained in this report, but Mr President has now added a few sentences as an oral amendment. So, that's a problem. Allow me, as a politician, to highlight the political line of this problem, so that it is obviously taking place, as one of my fellow Members said in the previous debate, that the takeover of Fidesz over the judicial system, and that in some cases it has not yet happened, is also seen in this debate between OBH and OBT, which also affects this matter. It is particularly important that we touch on this debate because we know that an important part of the criticism of the rule of law, which is now coming from Brussels, is the need to increase the independence of the judiciary and the courts, the institutional system from politics, and one of the ways to do so, could be, and even a proposed way to increase the role and independence of the OBT, so to speak. In other words, as if a situation could be encoded in the system that this conflict between OBT and OBH will even increase in the coming years because the role of OBT may increase. I say this because the judicial package prepared by the government in January has signs in this direction. In this regard, I said in the previous debate that, at the same time, it appears that the half of what the government is doing in this is not enough, so we do not know what will be enough for the whole step. But that's an important point. It's also not in the report, but I'm not allowed, but it has to be affected, because we live here, and now it's a current case, what we call the Völner-Schadl case and the press has been calling it for a year and a half now. This started at the end of 2021, but in fact it is already a story in 2022. I very much hope that this will be the case in the next year's report. Here I would like to say two things to Mr President, either as a question: on the one hand, what the personal role of the OBH and of you in this matter is and how far it has spread, and do not think that you are involved in this matter, or the unpleasant part of it. There is a recording that says that you have met György Schadl several times. You admitted to meeting with György Schadl, who, by the way, was trying to deal with a judge. You also recommended or set up Schadl with the President of the Metropolitan Tribunal by knowing what György Schadl intended, so why you would like this meeting. That's because they're talking about making a judge impossible, impossible. So you're involved, even if you're on the sidelines, in this case. Don't you think that raises questions and problems of mistrust about you? It is also a branch of this case that there was a committee of inquiry that examined the court's line in this complicated case. The OBT demanded this, you did it, you did it, but you encrypted your report last summer, so we don't know what branch of this case you discovered within the court system. Obviously, one has the very simple suspicion that when something is encrypted, there must be some kind of data, fact, action that reflects badly on the person involved in it. Now, in this case, we're talking about the leaders and control of the justice system, even you're expressis verbis. In addition to our main problem, my questions and criticisms, I would like to respond immediately to what was said in the keynote speech by my fellow Fidesz fellow Member before me. He stressed from the report how well digitalization is progressing, how well it works. and there are certain facts that show this. In every bill that usually comes before us, there is a proposal, about a quarter of a year, that is about digitalisation progress, and that is what we always support, because we think it is important. However, we always forget, and in this material, in this report, it would have been worth a sentence that, of course, it is very good to have smart and difficult lawsuits or some of them being dealt with digitally by citizens in the 21st century. In the 20th century, we do not see the government's ambition to have as few lawsuits as possible. The problem is, if there is a situation in which the courts or any other entities operating in the judiciary are required, it is a Band-Aid in this problem if they can do this quickly or digitizedly. There is little talk about it, and that is why I say that this part of the victory report should have been able to say that, of course, it would have been good not to talk about how quickly and digitally such procedures are taking place, but that there are, let us say, fewer procedures or fewer, simply because there is no or no need for them. The main problem, however, is not this, obviously Mr President, from my words, our main problem is that it is also a political situation, a political type of impact and a debate between OBH and OBT, which we believe to be detrimental to the future work of the OBH, and I say that we consider this to be an increase to be likely, so we cannot accept this report in this way. Thank you very much. [[12.00]]
u2023-03-29-28	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group, President of the Justice Committee.
u2023-03-29-29	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear President, György Seneyei, I do not wish to repeat what I have already performed in my Committee on Justice expo, nor what my fellow Member Zoltán Demeter has already said in his speech, so I would like to stress in any case that I thank you. Thank you, Mr President, for ensuring the proper and smooth functioning of the courts in 2021, the OBH has provided decent and fair provision in accordance with all the provisions of the law. In the light of these facts, it was once again very strange for me, as it did for the previous item on the agenda, the speech by our fellow Member, Mr László Sebian-Petrovszki, who, as on the previous item, called on the President of the OBH to be essentially responsible, and asked why the legislation in force did not talk more about the problems between OBH-OBT. Gentlemen. This is not, it is not the responsibility of the President of the OBH, it is within our competence, the competence of the Members, and it is strange, in particular, on the part of a Member, that a judge, a member of the judiciary, in this regard, is, in fact, accountable. That is why I ask that we reject this in the future, and I can say that I thank you for your work. KDNP will support the adoption of the report, and we wish you further success and good health in your work. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. György Seneyei Brown: Thank you very much.]]
u2023-03-29-30	Thank you very much, Congressman, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group, at your command.
u2023-03-29-31	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Colleagues, As I have just said, we are dealing with three very important reports; this is the second one on the accounts of the President of the National Court of Justice, and it is clear that this report also fundamentally defines the relationship between Hungary and the European Union, especially given that the independence of these bodies is essential for the acquisition of EU funds, which I believe is well known. It is therefore clear that we have to examine these reports at all by saying that we ourselves as Members are satisfied, and we obviously know the answer. And once again, I would like to emphasise that it is important to examine these reports, because the Union has made detailed criticisms of the rule of law with these bodies, particularly with regard to their poor functioning and not worthy of the rule of law. I repeat that this is also very important because Hungary voluntarily joined the European Union in 2004, almost twenty years ago, and we remember precisely that it has also committed itself to respecting the legal standards established as a result of millennial development of European law. So what I can say is that this report should also be examined practically from the point of view of the fact that these bodies fulfil their function as a rule of law. A report by the President of the National Court Office could be a joyful event, since an era with Seneyi György Barna ended in the OBH. The era marked by the name of the Hando Tünde was a period of intimidation and coercion against judges, a kind of open war, and when you were elected president of the OBH, the MSZP welcomed this. After the election, we also indicated that we hope that, as the new president of the OBH, he will perform his duties in a more democratic, more legal form than his predecessor. His predecessor had to leave because, in the words of a member of the OBT, because of his conduct and omissions, he became unworthy of his position in the administration of the court because of his uncontrolled pursuit of exclusive power. Unfortunately, we now see that you have failed to meet your expectations, at least those that we have made in connection with a more democratic, independent and more judicial system. Unfortunately, the opposite can be seen, i.e. the OBH continues to contribute to the breakdown of judicial independence. The report itself provides information on the results in relation to such judicial independence, stating in point 5.2 that in 2021 the President of the OBH decided to appoint 110 judges. This means that 110 judges have been temporarily transferred to a court other than your place of duty. These are briefly justified only by the fact that this is necessary to ensure an even distribution of the burden of the case or to facilitate professional development, which is not further justified. It is spectacular that the President of the OBH has not given any explanation to any of the more than 600 decisions taken so far, and the regulation also allows a single decision to assign up to 10-15 judges from one court to another in a group. Moreover, in recent years, judicial secondments have reached or exceeded 25 per cent of the total number of judges, i.e. one in four judges served as seconded judges in those years. This is a more serious problem, because the regulation does not give any consideration to determining the range of judges that can be ordered, it does not even guarantee that they have the necessary professional qualities and experience, so court leaders can choose the appointed judge from among the thousands of judges on the basis of opaque criteria. The absence of objective criteria for a seconded judge also allows judgment to be given at the Curia at the lowest level of the judicial organisation, with the secondment of judges serving at district court level, although fortunately this did not take place in 2021. According to the Court's interpretation, the secondments may be terminated unilaterally at any time, even without the consent of the judge concerned, which allows for the removal of the appointed judge from the cases he is discussing, even before the end of the original period of secondment, with which they can virtually remove the legal judge from the case, despite the fact that this is contrary to the Basic Law. It can therefore be seen that this method is both a means of discipline and a means of ensuring a proper judgment. Disciplinary means that if the judge fails to meet the requirements, he may be transferred to another place of service to deal with less problematic matters or to receive professional training under appropriate supervision. It shall ensure that, if it is found that the transferred judge would pass an incorrect judgment, his transfer shall suddenly cease, which implies the need to order a new Judge to the case. This solution is difficult to consider as a rule of law in this form. Similar problems can be seen on the other side, i.e. in the area of reward. There are basically two things that need to be highlighted here: one is about the appointment of judges and the other is about the system of reward. Both the President of the Curia's appointment practice and the OBH President's appointment exercise show that some applications have been evaluated on the basis of unforeseen criteria. Both the President of the OBH and the President of the Curia have circumvented the powers of the OBT codecision. For this reason, OBT first issued a critical opinion in July 2022 against the appointment exercise of the President of the Curia, who in 2021 appointed five judges in Curia by way of unlawful proceedings, bypassing the right to co-decision of OBT. Later, in October 2022, OBT also issued a critical opinion on the appointment exercise of the President of the OBH, who appointed four judges in an illegal manner in 2021, bypassing the right to co-decision on OBT. However, OBT also found other violations in this context. According to the Council, the information provided by the President of the OBH on his appointment practice in 2021 was not based on real data. [[12.10]] While the President of the OBH informed the judges that 30 out of the 32 evaluated applications had been submitted for appointment or transfer in accordance with the ranking of the Judges Council and requested the OBT's consent in the event of a deviation from the ranking, it became apparent to the OBT members after a review of the file that four further cases had been assigned substantially to the second-ranking judge without you having requested the OBT's consent. Due to the false prospectus, OBT members could only conclude that the powers had been circumvented after due follow-up. Similarly, OBT cannot verify on what basis and on what grounds the President of the OBH awards to the judges. This has very serious consequences. If the system of appointments and rewards is not transparent, the two top leaders elected by the majority in Parliament, the President of the OBH and the President of the Curia, can bring loyal people to them and to the fidesz majority in key positions of the Curia and the lower courts, who can keep their subordinates under pressure with reward and other discounts or even withdrawal. This pressure also affects the case-law and management activities and the practice of tendering in those courts. Based on the above, it can be seen that OBH could not comply without criticism with the Hungarian laws in 2021, and that it could not comply with European and EU standards at all. The OBH President's practice is opaque, dictatorial, violates judicial and judicial independence, destroys trust in the judicial system and undermines the case-law of the courts. This is precisely why the European Union criticized the existing system and that is why EU funds have been withdrawn from Hungary. The work of the President of the OBH and the report on it therefore cannot be accepted, but we can only hope that Mr President will continue his activities in the future, with a view to the interests of the rule of law. And the majority of Parliament has a responsibility to increase the powers of the National Judicial Council to an extreme extent in order to enable the body to exercise real control over the practice that has given rise to abuse. This is a condition for Hungary to benefit again from EU funds as a whole. I think it's in everyone's best interest. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2023-03-29-32	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László György Lukács, Group Leader, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2023-03-29-33	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to divide the speech into two parts on the OBH report. One: going through the generalities, I would like to highlight the virtues of the report or the major events of the past period from the point of view I see it, and I would like to look, to a large extent, at the point of view of how I have met it and how it has changed, and what I think is important about the way the courts currently operate and how the organizational system looks, and what has been achieved over the past period, which I consider to be forward-looking. And, of course, there is also a critical part, which, not with the work of the courts, but, let's just say, is a little more disoriented, an assessment of the political pressure on the President of the OBH himself or even on the court, if you will. These are more of a political issue, which is why this is more difficult to grasp, but I would like to hear the positive or perhaps critical comments that are important to the judiciary. From the 2021 report, it is very clear how serious changes have been made in the lives of the courts. These are the points where law-seeking citizens go to the lower-level courts every day in search of their rights, and therefore the greatest change could be seen here: just like the state offices, the courts had to take steps to organise life either by teleworking or by introducing different new, innovative or digital solutions in court proceedings. Thus, digital communication has also become a priority, and remote listening has become quite common. Obviously, they all had their own experience at the beginning, we can say that although the technology was advanced, the procedure itself was in its infancy; it was unusual for judges, lawyers or clients, or even for prosecutors. But nicely, slowly everyone got used to it, and perhaps now it is up to the point that all the benefits of this can be used further and that the judiciary has been able to use it more and more; it has been able to take advantage of the existing difficulties, and it has been able to make good use of them. I would like to make one warning in this regard that the courts, or even the representatives of customers, are typically trying and able to keep pace with the development of technology. Obviously, this cannot be done in a cost-saving way, but where we see it, customers or individuals acting without a simple representation are still in a very difficult situation. Although they are obviously not bound by procedural legislation, they are often in a situation where their rights in court are not adequately exercised if they are not engaged in digital communication. Thus, it will be worth reviewing from the benefit-making part of the past period what it is worth to take back, and from what it is worth bringing the courts a little closer to personal contact, personal negotiation, and hearings where everyone can be present in their real physical presence. In many cases, the search for justice and justice in the courts were also hindered, I believe, in the past period, because many feared that they could no longer participate in this way. This is also true of the lawyers, who have complained many times that they are more evasive because of the already relatively fast digital and electronic procedural transition. But it seems that the judiciary, the judicial system, and the system of the courts have passed a good test on this overall. Thank you very much for being a partner in this, and for this very difficult period of teleworking, home work, patient and well managed and resolved. Regarding the social acceptance of judgments: In 2021 we saw an increase of 93.1 percent to the first degree. It is said many times that this shows how right, how well it is accepted and how well it is with a sense of social justice, interpreting and enforcing the law, the court can judge. I would add that it doesn't always show that. There is a latence in it that is very difficult to detect, perhaps it cannot be measured, which is that in recent years there has been a significant change in who has been qualified in court proceedings as a court-costing party who has been able to allow him to use all the court tactics available to him. So, to put it so simply, a lot of people were prevented by the fact that they might find their truth in a second-degree procedure or appeal, that they were unable to bear either the costs of litigation, the expected costs of litigation, or the costs of the previous and possibly of proof to the expert, or the costs of the repeated and possibly of the expert in the second-degree proceedings. In particular, because these costs were or are so large in terms of a specific issue now that it is almost impossible to bear them in the lawsuit, so many times we do not even say that this was an acceptance, but rather a resignation on the search for further rights. This must always be borne in mind that it is not necessarily based on the fact that it is fully accepted by society. Many people may be excluded from the choice of second-degree proceedings, appeals or any other remedy because they are simply unable or not financially or otherwise. Regardless of the fact that there are discounts or tax exemptions, but the amount of these, let's say, is starting to break away from what could cover a wide or wider layer of society and can only be enforced very, very narrowly. With regard to backlogs, it is also good that we manage to work off the backlogs that have accumulated. The backlogs of the case are also a major contribution to timeliness and the delay in cases, and I also wrote my own thesis on how this could be modified and improved at the time. In the 2000s, this was a very serious problem. Since then, this has been a significant step forward, and I am very pleased that, as we enter beyond 2020, the courts are now able to cope with the reduction of these burdens and long-standing cases. What is more important, and then a few criticisms; not completely repeated, because I do not want to waste anyone's time, but it is also important to talk about what is about the independence of the courts, and the criticisms about this or criticisms about the independence of the organisation itself appear. [[12.20]] There is indeed a good idea that the rules on the selection of judges may be of concern, but the OBT has repeatedly expressed criticism, and I have also said in the previous speech, then the President of the Curia must, of course, always weigh up the criticisms. In many cases, there are outside actors who may be expressing such things for other purposes or even for political reasons, but many times you see that criticisms based on professional intentions also seem appropriate that the OBH and the President of the OBH should change the appointment of judges. It also raises the same question of independence regarding the secondment of judges, which has already been heard. There are, indeed, issues that the OBH has to deal with in substance, if it really wants and can, in my view, want and can embody this independence of the judiciary, and it can do such work. There were also embarrassing cases, and this must not be silenced, the waves of the Schadl case and the events related to it. It also did not reflect well on the president of the OBH, and I apologize, Mr President, for saying this in front of you, it has become known from the recordings that we have come up with from secret wiretap, you may know better how it was, or I believe, that there was a technical consultation, and that there was a technical consultation between you and the executive chamber. [[Sic!]] Between the president... However, the presidents of the various professions always consult each other in the case of justice, and I think that there is nothing new in this, which is why it would be good to know, based on the encrypted document, what is the full picture and what is the full truth, perhaps it would also greatly help trust in the OBH or the courts. And then I would like to end here with two questions, and hopefully I can be back by the time I can answer that, if not, then I will try and contact you in a different way. One is a local question. I live in Karcagon, Karcagon is the local district court and the prosecutor's office in the same building, it's a project that's been going on for a long time, and so far, no one can answer how the building of the Karcagi District Court and the building of the D.A. that they want to build, its construction, and there is some progress to be made. The last time I received information from Minister Lazarus was that he was not on the list from which the construction was to be pulled, so it is expected at some point. I just want to ask you when that part of our main square can be renewed there, especially with regard to the fact that the district court building is one of the most important buildings next to the town hall of Karcag, our village of Nagykunság. The other is a forward-looking question, and here I expect a well-meaning answer from you, given that this is actually a legislative task, and this is also part of the Schadl case. It is clear that the executor's organization, we can safely say, functioned as a criminal organization. The head of the criminal organization was the president of the Chamber himself. In essence, this system of public bodies has lost the social authority to represent the matters which it carries out in the state, in the court's mind, as implementing acts in order to implement the judgments, to society and to the people. That is why it arises, and that is the old position of the Jobbik-Conservatives, and Jobbik has long demanded that it be timely to reconsider and transform the implementation system so that it can return to the system of court organisation. This would in particular result in the fact that this would not be a result- and a profit-oriented organization, especially if, over the past period, browsing the reports, some executive agencies ran with revenues of HUF 300-400 million in 2020 and 2021, it is safe to say that they took tens of billions of HUF during the implementations, in a safe manner, under minimum sham conditions. So the question is that the president of the OBH could support the transformation of the enforcement system and the transformation of the implementation system into a similar way that, as it was after the 1990s, it would be placed in the court system and be part of the organizational system, and that employees, executives, should not work for their own pockets or work for their farmers' pockets, or work for the Tonies' pockets, but actually work for the state. After all, the task they perform and the public power they exercise is a state task and a state-led public authority. So, if this is possible or authorised, I look forward to it if you answer them and we intend to decide on the report later. Thank you very much.
u2023-03-29-34	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Apáti, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Group. Here you go.
u2023-03-29-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Before I turn to our national position on the item on the agenda, let me point out that I am experiencing an unusual vehemency and even more unusual aggressiveness on the part of Commission President Vejkey here in relation to opposition criticism, and I think it is important to clarify one thing: I hope that it is only a misunderstanding, Mr President, but if not, it is better to straighten it up or change it so that it does not mix it up and do not by chance avoid the slightest misunderstanding in this regard between the left-wing opposition and the Hungarian Movement. So in every way, there is a huge difference, only from your reciprocating remarks against the opposition, it seemed that this was not clear enough for you. And just because there's some pretty strong criticism to be made, I think it's just gonna be a better debate. I'm sorry, but those smearful and unilaterally flattering remarks do not serve the reform and development of the Hungarian justice system, and let's not pretend, and I'm telling everyone that everything is fine here. Well, when we have listened to the OBH President's report here, I assume, and the chief prosecutor's report will also be on this plane, we may have the wrong idea as if this were the best of the existing worlds; there is a Swiss clockwork in the Hungarian justice system, there is nothing to see, everything is very well, the sinners will be punished and justice will be given in civil affairs and in all other cases. Well, that's far from true, ladies and gentlemen. Well, it may be this pink dream world for you, and in your affairs, that's how you perceive it, but it's a long way from reality. It may seem this way from Budapest, not from the countryside at all. Without any kind of personalization, Mr President, you have said that you have not always been this way, do we not see that you are very free to cultivate the Hungarian language in connection with certain telephone conversations, but that does not make you a bad person, it happens to anyone. The first stone to be cast on him is the one who has not sometimes used worse terms. That is not the point, but the point is that from the phone conversation or the conversations you've been listening to, it doesn't seem like you're simply keeping in touch with or keeping in touch with György S., but there seems to be a little deeper, more direct human connection between you. This is a little more worrying, or this may be a cause for concern. Let me take it further, because more people here have started, but no one has gone through this story, that what you know from the press is about the fact that György Schadl's eyes were very much pricked by the work of an executive he was trying to fire. In this connection, he contacted you or turned to you, who, if I remember correctly, directed him to the President of the Metropolitan Tribunal, and the head of the Metropolitan Tribunal told this seven-pronged impostor executive that, although he could not fire the judge whose position made him unable to remove the unruly, obviously not good enough dairy or at all dairy enforcement colleague, he could not fire him, but the sense of comfort could be achieved by not having a good time with the judge at work. Don't you feel like you have something to do with this? Because the story is about to end here, or at least the part that we know is that something should be done here, something should be said, something should be done. It's amazing, though, that the president of a public body seems to have been running a Swiss clockwork crime organization for a long time to the highest end, so let's not keep it quiet like everything's going to be all right. In the Vejkey Committee, this is what you should be concerned with, what matters Mr Répássy's glorious predecessor has been involved in, that in the most despicable series of crimes in existence, it seems that he is concerned that when Hungarian people have been looted, the hyenas implementing their real estate and movable property, their salaries and incomes, just so that they can get richer and pay back to Schadl, the owner, Pál Völner, who else knows who is in the current state of the procedure. [[12.30]] Well, under these circumstances, let's not pretend that everything here is so fine. We are trying to make sure that the reports will be accepted here, of course, but I am afraid that this Schadl-Völner case will end with the fact that, in the end, the employees of the National Defence Service who were so bold, precise and truly truth-loving would be fired that they dared to reveal it. And who could be Adam and the Toni and Barbara? I wonder who it is. Well, hold on a second. In such a case, which is the highest in politics, when the president of the OBH is asked to fire the judge who can't remove an enforcer, would everything be all right here? It's pretty amazing. I ask you, Mr President, that you do not think that you should speak, give an opinion or go to concrete action on this terrible serious matter, which is likely to go a long way. So I'm afraid that the Schadl-Völner case will be exactly the case that won't improve court statistics in criminal cases, so I think they might be able to drag it away from obvious political motivation and political interests for half a decade or decades, which can never be proved. So you can smile at opposition criticisms, but we know the size of the jacket, we live in this country, we know what it is. Besides, I have a lot of questions for you. Old debate can also be said about prosecutors, but to talk about the courts now, let us stay in the courts on the issue of the number of judges and the distribution and distribution of numbers. Some say that now, as has been said, a significant part of it is, for reasons of income and wealth, that more and more judgments become final in the first instance and do not come second. Obviously, the number of ordinary, exceptional remedies is also drastically reduced, so there may be no need to increase the number of employees. What is your position on this? Do you think that the Hungarian court organisation now has an optimal number of employees, or that even a downsizing can be considered, or if there is a shortage of staff, how many posts should be filled? I've been interested in this for a long time personally, but I think the public is concerned, because personally, even though I'm not currently a practicing lawyer, I sense a lot of citizen feedback that has come back to me that things are still going a lot longer than the average citizen's expectations. So from this, it seems like more judges are needed, and I don't think it's likely that we might be able to think about downsizing. In particular, the courts have a sufficient number of courts in the district courts, and, let's say, no waterheads have been formed elsewhere? So are there any disproportions within the system? I have a question similar to what has been said here on behalf of László György Lukács in a slightly wider extension. Two locations in North-East Hungary were named, Ozd and Nyíregyháza, this is highly appreciated, that is absolutely fine. I would like to ask whether, in particular, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén or Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, or in other counties in a disadvantaged or difficult situation, even at the level of district courts, for the next, say, three years, so that we remain within the parliamentary term only, what improvements are expected to be made. I also mean the renovation of buildings and the real technical and IT developments. It has been said that judges' salaries have increased to 45 percent in several steps and 12 percent in the case of judicial staff. Don't you think that's disproportionate? So you don't think there's going to be internal tension, wage tension? Wouldn't it be necessary for a higher percentage of the salaries of judicial staff to be settled by the Hungarian Parliament or the Hungarian budget? Because they may be the grey emincidents or the pianists, but without them it would certainly not work, even at the current level, the Hungarian judiciary would not be able to function anyway. Finally, we would expect greater activeness from you and the whole organization in relation to the bombing of proposals, because I think it would be very important to look for Members in a Parliament where the number of legal representatives is at a low point in history, in terms of how we can establish a simplified set of rules, because it is old truth that either in simple administrative matters, in a municipal case or in a very complicated civil case, we can rightly say that the ruling or judgment-making notaries, administrative executives or judges, that we would like to apply much simpler rules, that procedures would last for a much shorter period of time, that only legislators would establish procedures that would be insurpassible time, and, despite our best intentions, we cannot say the decision-makers, to do shorter procedures than we do at present. In this respect, perhaps significant progress could be made, because I am here, unlike the eulogy, and I am talking less about the judicial system than I am talking about the whole Hungarian administration in general, respect for the exception that thins the pair; this should always be added not to generalize unfairly, I see that the state machine is very difficult to operate, often the feeling of man, even as a Member of Parliament, that the transmission of stimuli is about the same as dinosaurs, so we cut on his tail, and three weeks and a hectare of land until it turns around. It is therefore very difficult for us to operate a state-of-the-art state, and it is very difficult to talk about state-of-the-art case-law. So in this respect, I would also like to see your proposals on how these rules could be simplified. Actually, let me finish with a bit of a spicy remark. Seeing this not so much catfight, but a real fight between OBT and OBH, OBT and the Curia, in our opinion, either a drastic redesign of the OBT is expected, or even if in some form it will not be placed on the flag, because if they do not succeed in such an organizational system, it will probably be eliminated from the system sooner or later, or renamed into another name, or changed in the upper power of the personal composition by setting it in line, and then there will be no more problems with it. Again, while this would serve the purpose of leaving the system before 1990 permanently behind us, eliminating it, and establishing a truly objective, impartial, impartial justice, I would be your most enthusiastic believer, or our country Movement would be your most enthusiastic supporter. The problem is that this is not what the story is about, but that instead of a system under the authority, control and, where appropriate, manual control of the left parties, a fidesz hand-operated and under influence system should be developed. This may not be the case for a large majority of cases in quantitative terms, because I am obviously not talking about the average cases with political involvement, not even incidentally, or unpoliticised. By volume, this overwhelming majority, who says so, is undoubtedly right. In terms of volume and number, such cases may come up in a rarer, almost small proportion or proportion, but they attract the attention of the general public, they become the media target, they become really famous, interesting, and severe, and they also concern the professional public, and that is why they can develop, most of the time for thorough reasons, the idea of the average voters that there was a strong political influence on one side, there is now on the side that has been exercising power for 13 years. So I look forward to your reply to the questions raised, Mr President. Thank you very much. [[István Szabadi applauds.]]
u2023-03-29-36	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No one came forward for a two-minute speech. I would like to ask that someone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak within the framework of our agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the joint general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Barna Seneyei, President of the National Court of Justice, to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2023-03-29-37	Yes, thank you.
u2023-03-29-38	Mr. President, step outside. You have the floor. [[Dr. György Seneyei Brown enters the pulpit.]]
u2023-03-29-39	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, First of all, thank you very much for your detailed comments and questions, and I will try to answer in detail and respond to the speeches in chronological order. [[12.40]] Mr Imre Vejkey also spoke as President of the Committee on Justice. Thank you for the words of appreciation, and thank you specifically for the detailed data knowledge, data recognition and data recognition that is addressed to the court organisation. In the same way, I would like to thank Mr Zoltán Demeter for having met and presented the report in such detail, its numerical data, and specifically for his recognition of efficiency, but most of all for the words of appreciation to my colleagues. During the speeches, digitalisation was discussed, and other speeches were also addressed by other representatives. As a matter of fact about digitalisation, perhaps the only benefit of the protection against the pandemic was the age difference mentioned by the Member in connection with the use of digitalisation, the reduction in generation gap and the increase in the number of staff using and using digitalisation results, and the recognition of digitalisation increased. But, of course, nothing is ever mandatory. As I return to the words of Mr Abbot, far be it from me to shout pink. I've been on the field for 30 years, and it's pink, it's not, it's not gonna happen, but if you'll excuse me, I'm just gonna tell you how much we've finished, there's nothing we can do about it. These are the numbers that I thank and thank you for. In order, the ideas raised by Mr László Sebian-Petrovszki will follow. First of all, if you'll excuse me, there is a National Court Office and not a National Court Office. It's a type error, we use it a lot. That's the official name. He sees more in the conflict between the National Court Office and the OBT than he sees in it. What I've always said, and I'm telling you right now, is a difference of interpretation. As long as the law-interpreting authority does not have a court, everyone says I'm right. I've worked as a lawyer for a long time, and I've tried every time as president of the OBH, and I've tried to make a decision as a judge. If one disagrees with the decision, then this is the fact, but cooperation has nevertheless been continuous. Mr President, Mr President, you raised the ratio between the OBT-OBH system and other data in the report. The task of the OBH is the central administration, an important part of it, and it is indeed an important part of the nexus with the OBT, but it is the task of the National Court of Justice to maintain the service of social needs and the functioning of the justice system, namely to ensure the conditions for ending the case over one million. This primary, compared with OBT, is a significant but secondary sub-area. Mr President, with your permission, I will briefly answer questions involving 2020. In this regard, in the context of encryption, a legal decision has been taken, and to consider that this legal decision was appropriate, there is the NAIH and the court, and there will be a decision accordingly, Congressman. It is not important, where appropriate, to immediately call out the intention behind the judicial decision or the decision I have taken. If the encryption was inappropriate, the consequences of this will be deducted. In the context of the number of litigation cases, the Member used the word "the victory report." I would like to inform you that the number of lawsuits in this country has been steadily decreasing, not just in the last three years, but in recent years and decades. Obviously, there is no society in which there is no dispute, and the continuous reduction in the number of cases has already reached the functioning of the courts. I have also experienced, even sitting on the pulpit, that the timeliness of decisions will become topical, among other things, due to a reduction in the number of cases. With regard to Mrs Gurmai Zita's comments, I would like to say that it is difficult to respond specifically to the general opinion, but I can do it in general. The secondment of a judge in Hungary was carried out only and only with consent, without consent. And what I can tell you about the reward system is that it happened according to the pre-arranged criteria. On the other hand, the president of the OBH has, in essence, the powers of reward only in relation to the judges assigned to the OBH, and the reward from the point of view of OBH is quite small, since it is the competence of the local administration. In the context of the termination of secondments, I find the Member's comment somewhat contradictory, as she condemns the secondment and then made comments on the termination of secondment. I repeat, in Hungary, the secondment took place according to the law. With regard to the appointment of a judge, I would like to say that the president of the OBH does not have the competence to appoint a judge. In relation to the order in which judicial applications are evaluated and in relation to the reference to the OBT Decision, I note that this was done according to previous years' practice. As far as the explanations are concerned, since I have served as President, I will also justify a decision which does not need to be justified on a normative basis. More than that, the appointments of judges and judges were also discussed. Every time in Hungary, in particular in 2021, the appointment of the court leaders appointed by me was in line with the views of the opinion bodies. I said that in particular, because in 2022 there was a court leader who did not receive the majority of the opinion panel, and in this case I turned to the OBT, which supported my motion to appoint him in this round. The fact that there was any pressure on a judge or a court of law, I didn't hear an example. I do not know such an example, and it is difficult to answer such criticism without an example. In the context of Mr László György Lukács's speech and comment, let me say that digital contact is indeed important and of particular importance, but the party acting without a legal representative is not obliged to do so, and, where appropriate, can keep in touch on a paper basis. I believe that social acceptance is significant in the case of decisions which have become legally binding in the absence of an appeal, but in the case of the financial situation, the cost reductions can be used by the parties and, accordingly, there is indeed a part of the claim enforcement that cannot, where appropriate, be passed on to the State. At present, there is no will to change this legislation, and consequently, the consequences of unsuccessful claim enforcement, at least some of them, must be borne by the party. In the context of judicial secondments, I also maintain the very important fact statement that today in Hungary only a judge is appointed with consent. [[12.50]] The fact that I would have communicated any false data to the National Judicial Council, I believe that it is also a specific and legal debate. In the context of the Karcag District Court, I will send a separate written reply to the Member. In the context of the legislative issues raised, if the draft legislation comes to me, I will, of course, give a fair and professional answer. In the context of Mr István Apáti's suggestion: the proposal may also be made next year, but I am responding to you right now, Member. There was neither an illegal purpose nor an illegal content of any discussion. Above all, the fact that I acted on how I acted goes beyond the framework of the report, since it is not our job to review the legality of this. He also asked a question in connection with the number of judges. It is also included in my report, which is precisely why the staff management cabinet is currently in operation, so that, in the case at hand, the applicant, as the Member has indicated, internal disproportions are settled. It is an optimal difficult word to say that, but currently the number of judges in Hungary is appropriate, taking into account the current number of cases and the trends in the arrival of the case. The call for proposals is, by the way, continuous and the staff management cabinet makes proposals in this area based on data. In the context of court buildings: as the Member has seen, there is a very large number of court buildings and there is a great deal of dispersal in terms of the state of court buildings. He raised it precisely in relation to North Hungary: the renovation of the Miskolc Tribunal building, among other things, from other parts of the country, for example, Szeged, which is also a big court, is indeed current. Of course, any demand in this area cannot be met in a single amount due to material and other capacity shortages, but we are trying to meet everything. In the context of the wage increase, which was raised by the honourable Member, I agree, of course, with the wage increase. I'll add two things. The role of judicial staff and notaries assisting judges cannot be debated; their role is essential and is always of paramount importance. The rate of wage increase was also affected by the honourable Member. In this context, we need to go back a few years. In 2017, the judicial staff had a significant wage increase at the time, and this was followed by the establishment of a judicial salary increase system, so the two were divorced in time. In addition to the fact that I naturally share your position, and obviously what else I would do but fully support all wage increases and ideas. The speed of judgment. Congressman, judgment can't be much faster. Indeed, I recognise the social need for speed and speed of judgment, but there are cases, types of cases, the nature, complexity of which, because of the versatile, multi-directional nature of the evidence, there is simply no speed. Of course, there are types of cases, I will give you an example: it is a legitimate expectation that if the party, where appropriate, the plaintiff, the defendant, wishes to divorce with the same declaration of will, let us say that it will take place within weeks, because this does not have any aspect of proof or any other reason to make this kind of claim difficult. But I think this is happening. In the context of the election of the national judicial council: the members of the National Judicial Council are elected by the judges, and I can say this. The OBT is chosen by the judges, and their decision on this matter, their responsibility, and their decision is for six years. Indeed, the question has been raised as to how the powers of the National Judicial Council will be extended and how cooperation will be. It's the end of March 2023. What will happen in the future after the entry into force of a given legislation, I can say that we will cross the river when we get there. Of course, I still thought it important and followed the cooperation with the National Judicial Council, and I still think it is important. The fact that there are legal interpretation disputes, I do not believe that they represent a rule of law deficit. Thank you so much for listening. I wish you all good work and good health. Goodbye. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-03-29-40	I would like to thank Mr President for all his detailed answers and meaningful answers. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, President of the Committee on Justice, who also wishes to respond to what was said in the debate as rapporteur. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2023-03-29-41	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, To conclude, in summary of what happened here in the Chamber, I would like to say that in its dynamics the joint and general debate, i.e. the joint and general debate between the OBH's report for 2021 and the proposal for a decision of the Committee on Justice, was very similar in dynamics to what we had seen at the previous item on the agenda for the Curia. The President of the OBH was also under attack and the OBH itself. Therefore, I apologise to Mr President and to the OBH, but this was not given to them by the Fidesz-KDNP, but by the opposition, but on their behalf, I apologize because I feel that this is appropriate now and here. What was this argument supposed to be about? This debate should have been about what this report contained, which the president of the OBH submitted. If they put their hands on their hearts, they would be able to confirm that this report was about nothing but that, yes, the OBH provided for the proper and smooth functioning of the courts in 2021. Any statement contrary to this is untrue, not real. And he did it in full compliance with the Fundamental Law and the applicable laws. Thus, the contrary claims only serve to create a political mood for Mr President and the OBH. Once again, I must point out that the way in which Parliament has ruled in terms of legislation at the moment, what is the law in force with regard to the OBT and the OBH, is extremely odd to ask the President of the OBH to do so on behalf of a Member of Parliament. But it is also a strange narrative that when it comes to OBH's accounts, the Schadl case is brought in here. [[László Sebian-Petrovski: Well involved!]] This is the year 2021 OBH report. Then my fellow Member does not understand the substance of the report; he does not understand what Parliament has to discuss about a report. [[Dr. István Apáti: Is it uncomfortable to talk about it?]] I think, in this regard, that breaking the law is a violation of the law, whoever does it, and there the criminal authority will act, the prosecution will act, the court will act, and there will be a final judgment in a case. This is the rule of law, even though you do not like it, but it is the rule of law. This is the rule of law that Fidesz-KDNP represents against you. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]] [[13.00]]
u2023-03-29-42	Dear Parliament, Thank you, Mr President, for your answers. I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. I would like to thank you for your cooperation and to give the session to Vice President Sándor Lezsák. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2023-03-29-43	Welcome, fellow Members. The report on the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office in 2021 and the joint general debate on the proposal for a decision adopting it will follow up until closure. Report submitted by the Attorney General B/950 and the proposal for a decision submitted by the Judicial Committee, H/2017. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Attorney General Péter Polt, the author of the report. Attorney General, you have the pulpit.
u2023-03-29-44	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, Congresswoman and Lords! The written report, as we have heard, is at the disposal of all Members, so allow me to add only a few details that I consider important in my oral amendment. The main constitutional task of the Public Prosecutor's Office is to enforce the State's criminal needs. In terms of the effectiveness of this activity, the final closure of criminal proceedings is of crucial importance as compared to the fact that it is committed. The pandemic situation required the prosecution to choose those with less personal contact from among the procedural options. Experience has shown that this can have a positive impact on the timeliness of criminal proceedings, because in many cases and in this regard, I would like to mention the swift completion of proceedings in this regard also coincided with strengthening the legality of proceedings, and that the two cannot exclude each other, the combined requirement of legality and timeliness. Accelerating can therefore only be supported if criminal proceedings are closed by legal decisions in accordance with material truth. The following trends should be highlighted for specific areas of expertise and statistical indicators. It is clearly a positive phenomenon that the number of registered offences has consistently decreased over recent years. In 2021, the indicator dropped by more than 5 percent compared to the previous year, and if you look at the ten-year approach, you will see that the decrease was more than 67 percent compared to 2012 and that the number of years was not positive, but rather the trend of the phenomenon. I believe that this can provide a basis for extremely optimistic assumptions, even if we obviously experience a relapse in a year or so. Two factors are really important for the effectiveness of enforcing state criminal demand. On the one hand, for the prosecution to make a motion for criminal prosecution before the court in all cases where there is evidence that someone or someone has committed a criminal offence. On the other hand, it is at least as important that persons who have not committed a criminal offence should not be unduly prosecuted and should not suffer any legal disadvantage. In the light of the effectiveness of the first mentioned factor, statistical methods can be used to determine the proportion of courts to share the position of the prosecution. In 2021, the prosecution was 98.8 per cent, and the courts made a decision in all respects in relation to 87.9 per cent of the accused. The latter indicator is at least as important or perhaps even more important than the result of the prosecution, since in these cases the prosecution and the court considered the criminal case to be entirely identical. In the context of the validity of the decisions on refusal of complaints and termination of proceedings, it is worth considering an investigation into the work plan of the Public Prosecutor's Office carried out in 2021, i.e. in the reference year. In doing so, we analysed the extent to which the additional private proceedings in which the replacement private prosecutor filed an indictment for the court between 2018 and 2020 resulted in results. In 37 cases of 613 such cases, i.e. only 6 percent of the proceedings, 94 percent of the cases were, therefore, correct. Although the prosecution has no direct influence on the extent of crime, it is worth noting the observed trends in some types of crime, because the prosecution's work can also play an indirect role in this. First of all, I would like to express a few thoughts on the crimes committed to the harm of minors. This category of crimes is accompanied by special attention from society for understandable reasons. According to available statistical data, in 2021, more than 5800 minor victims could be identified in connection with registered offences, by the way, slightly less than in the previous year. It is also worth highlighting that there are a number of Btk. the harm of minors of different types found in different chapters, and this fact must be taken into account when drawing conclusions. Over the last decade, a number of legislative amendments have been made that have contributed to effective action against crimes against minors. In particular, I would like to highlight the change in Btk. that made it compulsory, as a general rule, for perpetrators of crimes against sexual morality against minors to be banned from employment. As a result, the perpetrator, regardless of his or her profession at the time of his or her commission, may no longer pursue a profession or conduct any activity in which he or she pursues the education, supervision, care and treatment of a person under the age of 18 or in which he or she is in a position of power or influence. Following the amendment, there was uncertainty in the case-law, so in 2020 and then in June 2021, the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office issued guidance and we indicated difficulties in the application of the law to the legislator. As a result, Btk took place in July 2021. to clarify the provision of that provision, making it clear that the ban on permanent occupation is also mandatory for the perpetrator of child pornography in each case. [[13.10]] In this context, I would like to mention in particular that in 2021 the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office typically submitted to the Curia a motion for review against the defendant in more than 70 cases which were finally closed, in which the compulsory ban on employment was not legally imposed. In these cases, the Curia has changed the final decision to provide for the prohibition of occupation. In part, I would like to share some thoughts on the criminal activity of trafficking in human beings in connection with offences committed to the harm of minors, in part as regards changing substantive legislation. The Btk. the legal situation governing this was amended from 1 July 2020 and 2021 was the first year in which the new legislation had to be applied for a full year. Practical experience clearly shows that the comments previously made by the prosecution to the legislators were well founded. On the one hand, the new facts can be applied more effectively than before, and on the other hand, the case law established on the basis of them is better suited to international expectations. It is also a positive result that, as a result of the legislative amendment, and here, the issue is linked to the offences committed to minors to harm certain minors, such as certain forms of abuse of child prostitution, are subject to stricter consideration than before. Furthermore, the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office regularly provides training for prosecutors and even other law enforcement authorities on the subject of trafficking in human beings, so that the application of the law is effective and sufficiently consistent. In 2021, fiscal fraud, which includes all offences that harm the domestic and EU budgets, was still a key factor in economic crime. Whether we look at the evolution of the number of proceedings initiated or the number of registered offences, it can be concluded that the quantitative indicators have not changed significantly compared to recent years. At the same time, these offences remain characterised by a very complex factual and legal assessment, which requires specific professional competence and thorough, precise work from the prosecutors who act. At the same time, statistical data show that the number of money laundering proceedings increased in 2021 compared to the previous year, the number of registered offences increased by 16% and the number of proceedings initiated by 38 percent. As of 1 January 2021, the substantive rules of criminal law have changed and acts previously considered as an economic activity have been treated as money laundering since that date. For a long time, the prosecutor's office has paid particular attention to the possibility of withdrawing the property generated in the course of a criminal offence from persons who have proven to be guilty of criminal offences. Effective action against money laundering is an essential condition for this. It should be noted that the legislator amended the legislative provisions in the light of the experience and professional arguments of the prosecutors. In addition to complying with international requirements in all respects, the renewed legal situation in force since 2021 shows that it can be better applied in practice than before. The fact that, in 2021, a total of HUF 35 billion of assets were ordered as a coercive measure is to be mentioned partly in connection with criminal offences that harm the budget, partly in connection with money laundering, while, after the final closure of criminal proceedings, the courts imposed a confiscation order on more than five thousand persons as a legal disadvantage. On the basis of the statistical indicators of corruption in the criminal sense, it can be concluded that the number of official bribes has not substantially changed in the reference year. The increase in registered acts compared to the previous year can essentially be explained by a number of cases in which a mass of acts against the purity of public life have been detected. To give an example, in one case there were more than four thousand cases in progress. The significant 32 percent increase in the number of proceedings initiated in relation to economic corruption offences has also been the result of a change of legislation that entered into force on 1 January 2021, which has punishable the adoption of so-called "thank you' money and its provision. The prosecution's criminal activity determines the whole course of criminal proceedings. During the investigation, he conducts judicial supervision, conducts the investigation, conducts the second stage, represents the prosecution in court, and then supervises the legality of the execution of the sentence. The report provides detailed evidence that the prosecution's activities have been effective at all stages of the proceedings. As in the previous year, data concerning the types of indictment showed that in 2021 it was of particular importance that the court be able to take a decisive decision, as far as possible, without the personal presence of the parties to the proceedings. Accordingly, the prosecution's request for 74.5 percent of the indictments, which shows an increasing rate compared to the previous year, was 71,7 percent in 2020 and 58,6 percent in 2019. In the case of this form of procedure, the court may, in the event of legal conditions, take a decision which is decisive on the basis of the documents. This solution should be without prejudice to the principle of a fair trial, as I mentioned at the outset, since, in addition to the prosecution, both the defendant and the defender may request a hearing if they do not agree with the provisions of the decision. It is also important to point out that the criminal proceedings carried out by the court have increased to a legal force for 85 percent of the defendants concerned. The quick and fair termination of the procedure is also served by the legislative option whereby the prosecution may make a motion to the extent of the legal disadvantage in the event that the defendant admits his guilt at the preparatory meeting and waives his right to trial. To this day, we have endeavoured and strive to ensure that the so-called large motion is made by the prosecution, in justified cases, in the light of, among other things, the requirements of a fair procedure, and that it should be omitted only if these conditions are not met. It should also be borne in mind that the expected penalty in numerical form encourages the defendants to admit in many cases. The statistical data show the success of the prosecutor's work and the legal institution. In 2021, the court accepted almost ten thousand charged confessions at the preparatory meeting. This indicator was only 8800 in the previous year. The legality of decisions to close criminal proceedings involves the application of an appropriate legal disadvantage which adequately serves the purposes of punishment. In view of this, in cases where the prosecutor considers that the penalty imposed by the court does not comply with this requirement, we shall lodge an appeal for seriousness. It should be pointed out that in 2021, 85,4 percent of the defendants affected by appeals notified by the Public Prosecutor's Office were seeking redress to increase the penalty imposed. It is regrettable, and this is a negative phenomenon, in my view, that only 27.3% of appeals were effective. This fact clearly shows that, on the one hand, the positions of the prosecution and the court differ in many cases as regards the imposition of penalties, on the other hand, it also indicates that it is not necessarily necessary to tighten the substantive rules of criminal law, but, on the other hand, to change the application of the law. [[13.20]] Briefly about the public interest protection activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office. The number of cases registered in this department increased by around 20% in 2021 compared to the previous year. This shows that this area plays an increasingly important role in the lives of both the prosecution and society. Despite the fact that there is no decision-making power attached to the activities of the field, the prosecutor's office represents the interests of the state and the members of society as a more co-ordinated actor in these cases. Public-interest prosecutors worked closely with environmental authorities and, if necessary, criminal law in the course of their activities in the field of environmental protection in 2021. Statistical indicators indicate an increase in this area. The number of priority measures increased by more than 32 percent in 2021 compared to the previous year and the number of prosecutions initiated by prosecutors doubled compared to the previous year. According to the Criminal Procedure Act, the General Prosecutor has the exclusive right to bring an appeal to the Court in the interest of legality against the final ruling of the court or the final decision of the court which is not decisive and cannot be challenged by any other extraordinary remedy, but which is contrary to the law. In the context of this appeal procedure, I would like to refer to the fact that, on the basis of such a motion, the Curia can only change the contested decision in favour of the defendant, in addition to declaring the infringement. In 2021, seven appeals were lodged for legality. The Curia shared the arguments set out in the appeal motion in the proposals already examined, and it is also worth mentioning that four of the proposals submitted were specifically aimed at eliminating the infringement of the law against the defendant. And very briefly, at the end of the day, about international activity. The international activity of 2021 was clearly affected by the pandemic situation. Here, too, direct personal contacts have been replaced by Internet contacts. It should be pointed out, however, that in April 2021, as a result of previous consultations, I and the Prosecutor General of the European Public Prosecutor's Office signed the cooperation agreement between the two institutions. In this context, I would also like to refer to the fact that the European Attorney General, Ms Laura Condruţa Kövesi, assessed the one-year operation of the European Public Prosecutor's Office last year, stated that the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office is a positive example of the working relationship between the European Public Prosecutor's Office and the prosecutors of the non-participating Member States, stressing that cooperation is harmonious and that all requests are made by the parties. I would also like to say that, despite the known difficulties, the public prosecutor's situation and management were solid and sound in 2021. Dear House, Hungary's prosecution celebrated its 150th anniversary in 2021. This has also given us an opportunity to look back, to take stock of past successes and possible failures. At the conference held at that time, all the main prosecutors in the V4 Member States, as well as the Austrian Attorney General, took part and the President of Eurojust honoured the event. Rather than qualifying for 2021 work for myself, I would suggest that all of these participants, without exception and with equal recognition, have expressed their appreciation for the performance of the modern Hungarian prosecutor's office and their successful fight against violations. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-29-45	Thank you very much to Péter Polt, the Attorney General, the author of the report. I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, President of the Committee on Justice, the author of the motion for a decision. You have the floor, Mr. Vejkey.
u2023-03-29-46	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome Mr Péter Polt, the Deputy Prosecutor General and their colleagues, to the plenary session of the Parliament. Pursuant to Article 29 ( 5) of the Fundamental Law of Hungary, the Attorney General submitted to Parliament the B/950 on the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office in 2021. The Court of Justice of 15 November 2022 held its report on the subject, which was discussed as a committee appointed at its meeting on 15 November 2022. Ladies and Gentlemen, According to the Fundamental Law, Hungary's prosecutorship is the sole enforcer of criminal law claims in respect of the Hungarian State, as well as other tasks assigned to it by the law. The year 2021 continued to be dominated by a pandemic caused by the corona virus, which also posed extraordinary challenges to the functioning of the prosecution's organisation. During the discussion of the report, the Committee on Justice welcomed the measures taken by the Public Prosecutor's Office after the completion of the epidemiological situation under Article XXI. In compliance with the requirements of the 20th century, the prosecution continues to maintain. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Judicial Committee again commends the prosecution's work as a result of which the number of registered offences has been reduced every year over the last ten years, which continued during the overall crime rate in 2021. Although the level of money laundering procedures has increased significantly, this was mainly due to legislative amendments, since acts previously assessed as an economy should now be treated as money laundering. That's what the Attorney General said in his exposé. The Judicial Committee will also continue to support the prosecution's efforts to detect fiscal fraud affecting the domestic and EU budgets, as well as the prosecution's efforts to whiten the economy. The Judicial Committee acknowledges the prosecution's efforts to remove the property generated in the course of the crime from those carrying out criminal behaviour. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Committee on Justice welcomed the further increase in the number of proceedings to be completed without any personal involvement, with a criminal order, and has now been subject to nearly three quarters of all charges. The Judicial Committee also expressed its appreciation for the fact that the prosecution was able to maintain the results of the prosecution and that the court had taken the same decision as the prosecution in almost 88 percent of the cases. The Judicial Committee welcomed the prosecution's investigation into the rejection of complaints and the merits of decisions to terminate proceedings, the result of which also confirmed the professional activity of the prosecution. [[13.30]] Ladies and Gentlemen, The Judicial Committee also dealt with the public interest protection activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office. The growing importance of the field shows that the number of cases registered by the prosecution has increased by 20 percent. The Committee on Justice welcomed the prosecution measures taken to protect victims, such as the initiation of procedures for raising public prosecutors' awareness in matters of distance, protecting children or keeping relatives away, as well as environmental protection measures. These measures are particularly important given the changing circumstances of the pandemic period. The members of the Judicial Committee raised questions to the Attorney General during the hearing of the report in connection with the detection and prosecution of corruption offences, the prosecution's institution and international relations with the prosecution. The prosecutor's organisation has carried out its work in 2021 under the legal framework and in accordance with the requirements of timeliness. Thank you for the work of Attorney General Péter Polt and all prosecutors and prosecutors. On the basis of the documents at its disposal, on the one hand, on the basis of the report submitted by the Attorney General, and on the other hand, on the basis of the answer given by the Attorney General to the questions set out, the Judicial Committee found that the report also provided detailed information to Parliament on the wide range of tasks related to the prosecution's criminal justice, its public law activities, its judicial control work and its work in connection with the enforcement procedures. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, at its meeting on 15 November 2022, the Committee on Justice shall be B/950 on the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office in 2021. His report was adopted by 8 votes to one, with no abstentions. The Rules of Procedure of the Judicial Committee are set out in Rule 84 of the Rules of Procedure. H/2017 submitted pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act. In its proposal for a decision, the Attorney General recommends his 2021 report to this House for adoption. Please support me. Thank you again for your work, and thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] H/2017 submitted pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Article. In its proposal for a decision, the Attorney General recommends his 2021 report to this House for adoption. Please support me. Thank you again for your work, and thank you very much for your attention. (Applause in the ranks of the governing parties.)
u2023-03-29-47	Thank you very much, Commission President Vejkey. Dear Parliament, No one on the government's side came forward. The speech will now take place in a 15-15-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Demeter, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2023-03-29-48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, I would like to continue with the idea that, at the meeting of the Committee on Justice held on 15 November 2022, the Attorney General's parliamentary report on the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office in 2021 was indeed discussed in great depth and in detail, and, as we have heard, this was considered acceptable by the Committee. He considered it appropriate to accept it because both the report and the oral amendment by the Attorney General said that the prosecutor's office had performed its duties in 2021 at a high level of professionalism and in the manner required by law. Dear Parliament, By submitting the parliamentary report, the Attorney General fulfils one of his most important obligations, presented the operation of the organisation and its results. We also know, Members of Parliament, that written questions can be asked to the Attorney General, and in 2021, Members of Parliament turned to the Attorney General with 127 written questions, and, of course, the Members of Parliament received the appropriate answers to their requests within the legislative framework. It has already been said that the year 2021 was about the pandemic, the coronal virus epidemic, that is to say it was very similar to the year 2020, but I believe that, despite the difficulties, the prosecution managed to meet the challenge in 2021, using the lessons of the year 2020. Dear Parliament, I would also like to highlight and stress the constitutional task of the prosecutor's office, which is to enforce the state's criminal needs. It has already been said that, of course, the decisive importance of the effectiveness of the activity is the time at which the final closure of criminal proceedings takes place in comparison with the offence. Then the epidemic also required that, taking into account the legal framework of the procedural options here, the prosecution should choose those that involve less personal contact. This report also shows that, as a result of developments in recent years, prosecutors have almost without exception IT tools enabling remote work, and this is a very positive and very good thing. Experience has shown that a new way of organising work, whereby prosecutors can interact with the co-governments online on the one hand and do their work away from their place of duty at a certain part of the working time, and that, thank God, could function effectively. The enforcement of the State's criminal claim is also reflected in the prosecution's motion to bring to justice persons who, on the basis of the available data, can be proven to have committed some kind of criminal offence. And it has already been said, but it does not hurt to repeat it precisely so that it is not just criticism, and it is a pleasure for me that the courts share the position of the prosecution. It was nice to hear that the courts made the same decision as the prosecutor in all respects as 87.9 percent of the defendants. The latter indicator is at least as important for the assessment of the prosecution's activities as the prosecution's effectiveness. The report then reveals that the number of procedures for money laundering on the basis of statistical data increased in 2021 compared to the previous year, and that the substantive criminal law rules have changed from 1 January 2021 onwards, and that acts previously considered as economics are considered to be money laundering from that date onwards. [[13.40]] According to the Criminal Procedure Act, the General Prosecutor has the exclusive right to bring an appeal to the Court in the interest of legality against a final ruling or a final decision which is not decisive and which cannot be challenged by any other extraordinary remedy. According to this report, this took place in seven cases in 2021. The Curia shared the arguments set out in the appeal in the proposals already examined. In accordance with the prosecutor's motion, the Curia also declared the nullity of the judgments relating to the reprisals after the 1956 Revolution and the War of Independence for 48 persons. It is worth pointing out that the 2020 LXXXVI on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2021. Law No. 1 amended the Law on Law No. 1 on the basis of which, as of 1 January 2021, a cafeteria benefit may be granted to the Assistant Prosecutor, the Public Prosecutor's Journalist and the official, the scribe and the physical employee. The international activity of the General Prosecutor in 2021 was therefore significantly defined and influenced by the international epidemiological situation caused by the corona virus and, therefore, preferred online forms of participation rather than personal participation. A small part of the international conferences and programmes planned for 2020 were also carried out online in 2021, and it should be pointed out here that in April 2021, as has already been said, and for me this is a great achievement and a joyful thing, the Hungarian Chief Prosecutor and the Prosecutor General of the European Public Prosecutor's Office signed the cooperation agreement between the two institutions. With all of this in mind and with respect, I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of this report, but at the same time we would like to thank the Attorney General and, of course, his colleagues, which I am now doing, for the high level of professionalism and for fulfilling their duties in the manner required by law. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]] (László Földi in the notary seat) Replaced by Béla Mihalffy.)
u2023-03-29-49	Thank you, Congressman Demeter. I now give the floor to Mr László Sebian-Petrovszki, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2023-03-29-50	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, We can rarely be in a situation where everything that has been happening in this country for 13 years, and what we critically view and say in every possible forum, criticizing what is wrong in this country, can be so embodied in a document, an institution, a person, in the person of Peter Polt, as it is now. This is a very rare situation, but this situation has come up. If we are talking about, and we have been talking about, for months now, almost a year about the legitimate criticism of the Hungarian rule of law, about the non-existent rule of law, about the legitimate criticisms of the administration of justice and the operation of its various subsystems, if we are talking about the specific complaints and problems that arise either from Brussels or from any other means and source, what it is that makes Hungary no longer a rule of law, but an authoritarian regime, then it is the easiest and easiest Péter Polt and his career and his work as an example, because this explains everything. If it is necessary to explain in Brussels what is going on in Hungary, then Peter Polt and his work can be exemplary. The fact is that the fidesz authoritarianism that has been built in the past 13 years was the most important point of Fidesz's position as a winning party not only in the laws, but also in the institutions which, by their very nature, should be independent, even if they are related to the executive power or have anything to do with it after the 2010 election victory. These situations, stories, institutions, and individuals that Fidesz has put at the forefront of these systems are a long list so that there is no threat to the exercise of power created by Fidesz and the autocracy that has been put in place. One of the fine examples is Peter Polt and the prosecutor's office. The fact is that Péter Polt has achieved that in this country 12 years ago, almost 13 years ago, he has actually done everything in his power to ensure that there are no reports, no proceedings, no judgments at the end, no convictions, no convictions. I see you're taking notes, Mr. Attorney General. Obviously, it will bring a range of Happy István with one or two examples, but we know that they are the small fish, that they are not the operators of the system, not those who have actually defined the last 12 to 13 years of Hungary, and have determined where EU money has gone, for example, who has stolen it, how, where, why. There are many examples, there are few 15 minutes, but even 15 hours would not be enough to go through, the cases and cases of corruption that have come to the surface in the last 12 to 13 years, only to be known, and then this is far from the tip of the iceberg, and in which, by the way, such submissions and such submissions have been made, reports have been made. These were rejected by Péter Polt himself and his organization in a professional manner either immediately at the submission of the petition or after a little investigation. We have a lot of stories like that. At the hearing of the last annual report, I think I have listed three examples in which DK and DK's politicians made submissions. I've got one of those right now. This is the case of the ventilator, which the Hungarian government, referring to Covid, imported hundreds of billions of forints in principle and handed over to health care. This clearly shows lawlessness, it clearly shows that it was brought in for much more money, and probably its quality is not the level that it can be. The latest development, but this was also a few months ago, that according to the official data of the HCSO, there were not as many respirators in the country and there were never as many as they claimed that they had brought me in, and what the Hungarian government had paid anyway. Of course, with this complaint, neither did Péter Polt, nor did my fellow Member László Varju, who filed this complaint, start asking questions and quoting conversations with the prosecutor's office, not those who were otherwise marked in the complaint by company and person. But, I'm telling you, from such an example, all my opposition fellow Members are up to about ten. This only shows that the system worked that way, in 2021 and before, it still works after Péter Polt's embarrassing, harmful but illegal cases for Fidesz. [[13.50]] There's no such thing as making a case out of something that's uncomfortable for the government. I'll tell you right now, with which, again, I'm pretty sure that the Attorney General will be carrying a revolver, this Schadl case, to which you might say something has happened, but it is a case against a State Secretary, the former State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, Pál Völner. Yes, but he was the one against whom he was then, and it has not been explained to this day, the D.A.'s office has not initiated his arrest. He may be free to defend himself, I suppose, at home in his household solitude, while, say, Mr. Schadl was taken in handcuffs, quite rightly. These cases, these cases, show that what the D.A. is doing, at the head of the Attorney General, is everything but what should be done in a democracy, what we used to do, and what could be expected in a democracy. We cannot expect, I understand, because we live in authoritarianism, but you see the pressure that is becoming more urgent and partly from abroad, and the government also senses that something must be done. I would particularly like to highlight the part of the report when it comes to the fact that there is actually no corruption in Hungary. I would like to remind Mr Attorney General that at a previous meeting of the Justice Committee, he explained that corruption is a difficult category to grasp and that what is not only perceived by ordinary people as corruption, but also by various indicators and research shows that corruption in Hungary is on a huge scale. In fact, what you're trying to explain is that there's no such thing, or these are false feelings. What has happened in the last few months compared to this? In order to try to reach the money in Brussels and make it available to Hungary again, all kinds of legislative amendments went through here in the House, there was that in a day or two. Some of these were specifically intended, and the Fidesz justified the law by saying that, yes, there is a need to take action against cases of corruption and to investigate cases. He's set up a separate organization, we have a separate Integrity Authority. Separate packages of proposals were split apart and adopted by Parliament in order to find a way to fight corruption. Of course, we also said that we knew that we knew that the government did not do this on its own initiative, not because it dreamed of a non-corruption Hungary, but because it really, really wanted those EU funds to come, I would add, so that they could steal them again. But nevertheless, and it is now an important part of this report that, but the government itself, with these submissions, with these adopted legislative proposals, has acknowledged with these steps that there is corruption in this country, yet there should be something to be done about corruption. You, Mr Péter Polt, and your organization can do something about this, but you deny that there is such a problem in Hungary, not that you might do something about it. If you had this type of desire, we would certainly be able to give you long lists, a series of written reports and submissions you rejected, which you could begin to process this corruption backlog. One word, like a hundred in 2021, and since then, and before that, the situation has not changed here, the same story over and over again, so we cannot accept this report as we have done before, and we cannot support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of MSZP.]]
u2023-03-29-51	Thank you very much, Congressman László Sebian-Petrovski. I give the floor to Commission President Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2023-03-29-52	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, I do not wish to repeat what I said as President of the Committee on Justice in my expo and what my fellow Member, Mr Demeter, has just said in his keynote speech, but I would like to stress what I was forced to stress on the previous agenda and on the previous agenda that we are talking about an unprecedented attack on our opposition fellow Members, which is now a sign against the prosecution and against the Attorney General. In vain, the Attorney General has also told us the facts about Eurojust's statement on the Hungarian prosecutor's office, the operation of the Hungarian prosecutor's office. Despite saying the fact that the European Public Prosecutor's Office also considers its praises and even sets the best example of the Supreme Prosecutor and his relationship with the Chief Prosecutor, it presents him as an exemplary example in Europe and in the world, so that does not impress you. Compared to this, they say all the opposite, untrue things. So, on your part, the unprecedented attack continued, and I cannot classify this as a minework: minework against the rule of law in Hungary and minework against the prosecution, which I also reject. On account of the baseless accusations and attacks, I apologize to all members of the prosecutor's office and to the Attorney General himself, and I believe that the attack you are carrying out is unworthy and extremely unworthy. Allow me, then, to thank Mr Péter Polt and all the prosecutors and prosecutors for his work. It is beyond doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that the annual report of the Prosecutor's Office in 2021 has been presented with content and form in accordance with the legislation. Since it was prepared in this way, he informed the Parliament in detail of all the various tasks of the Public Prosecutor's Office in connection with criminal justice, its activities in public law, its statutory audit work and its work in connection with the enforcement procedures. On the basis of what has been said and on the basis of the documentation of the report, it is beyond doubt that the prosecution has performed its duties to a high standard and in accordance with the Fundamental Law and other laws in any manner required by them. In view of all this, I would ask my fellow Members, in particular my fellow opposition Members, to reconsider their views and to accept that they will vote in favour of the annual report of the Prosecutor's Office in 2021, together with the proposal for a decision of the Committee on Justice. The parliamentary group of the KDNP, together with the Fidesz parliamentary group, will support the report and the proposal for a resolution. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-03-29-53	Thank you very much, Commission President Imre Vejkey. I now give the floor to Congressman Márton Tompos, the lead speaker of the Momentum Group. You have the pulpit, Congressman.
u2023-03-29-54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Polt, it has been a truly eternal experience to listen to this victory report. I think I can say this on behalf of all my fellow opposition Members. The only problem with this is that Hungary is the most corrupt country in the European Union based on the corruption perception index. It's unpleasant, but we're in the 77th place in the world on the same level as Kuwait and Trinidad and Tobago. In view of the prosecution's work, in particular its absence, this is not surprising, so here are some cases that have been overlooked, or in which, unfortunately, they have not been able to do normal work. [[14.00]] 1. The railway line of Szyól-Püspökladány, where we managed to put Simicska's Középép in two details and the railway building company of Péter Szijjártó's father. Two days before the winner's announcement, the government suddenly decided to increase the budget for the project by 24 billion, but it didn't really matter because the other candidates were already excluded; well, for sure. The investigation started in 2015, and it hasn't been completed since. 2. It is an old-school programme where the EU has given 14 billion to improve science education. All of this has been managed by overpriced classroom renovations and workbook purchases many times, but even the Prime Minister's Office is the Prime Minister's Office! It also concluded that the same professional content was sold in whole or in part by often different suppliers as new and that the total development cost was accounted for each time. In 2021, three suspects eventually became involved, while 43 settlements were involved. 3. , Bridge to the world of work, where the National Roma Municipality received EUR 2.5 billion in EU funding, but it turns out that it has not done any real work, the unemployed Roma have not been included in the labour market. Of course, the money was spent. Last December, after seven years of lack of evidence, the investigation was terminated. 4. Abuse of dental developments, where Viktor Orbán's dentist is involved, among other things. There are 20 projects in total. It is more expensive than the market price and dental equipment obtained from EU support. However, the interest of Viktor Orbán's dentist was no longer included in the domestic investigation, even though the EU auditors specifically indicated that the company's compulsory participation in the invitation to tender could violate the public procurement directives, as he obtained more than half a billion forints without a tender. (In the notary seat Bakos Bernadett Replaced by David Dócs.) OLAF sent its recommendation to the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office in December 2016, which ordered the investigation. What's the result, Mr. Attorney General? 5. Antal Rogán's IT invention, which is similar and almost the same name, proposed that OLAF launch criminal proceedings in connection with the development of EU support by the company of its inventors. In principle, the investigation in Hungary has been ongoing since 2018, but we still haven't seen any results. Point 6. Microsoft licenses, where the company admitted that its Hungarian subsidiary sold overpriced software licenses to Hungarian public bodies, and the difference was used for corruption purposes. They admitted that the investigation for three years didn't have any suspects. 7. The management of the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank and the enrichment of the Matolcsy family, which caused it to lose hundreds of billions of forints in public money. Despite the reports, the D.A.'s office hasn't opened an investigation. 8. Hundreds of billions of tax forints, which passed through the TAO system, and not all the data was released after a court order by the ministries that were supposed to carry out the audit. There was no investigation. 9. The settlement bonds, where 60 billion forints of public money were transferred to offshore companies. The Hungarian state lost at least HUF 17 billion in the business. Despite the abuse revealed by the press, no investigation has been launched. 10. A little colorful about the abuses around the use of EU funds. Based on OLAF recommendations, the rate of indictment is less than 33 percent, while the rate of abuse in Hungary is highest in the EU. 11. The costs of the FINA water-vb transport. We started from 24.5 billion, finally the Danube Arena was doubled; the whole event cost 170 billion forints. There was no investigation. 12. OLAF revealed 167 billion HUF damage to the construction of metro line M4. There have also been investigations into the Alstom case in other countries. There was also a report in 2017. Then Fidesz campaigned with him, and in 2019 the case was dropped in the absence of a crime. There's been no accountability ever since. 13. The New Generation Centre, connected to Fidelitas, was able to spend 11 billion on youth development, but the money disappeared, and the financial accounts were claimed to be soaked in a rainstorm. Despite the SAO's report, the investigation was terminated within three months. 14. Magyar Nemzeti Kereskedőház Zrt. spending. The organization under the supervision of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has brought attention to its numerous scandals and inefficient operation. In 2014, nearly HUF 2.4 billion were closed, and already in 2015 they lost HUF 6 billion. 15. Overpriced Budapest-Esztergom railway line. The total cost of the renovation serving 8,000 passengers per day was HUF 120 billion. And it's probably never gonna come back. The investment made with EU money did not significantly reduce the journey time. In the background, there were legal entities such as Lajos Simicska or Lőrinc Mészáros behind the sub-projects won by various public procurements. 16. The outcome of the MET case. As a result of energy regulation, in 2015 the European Commission launched infringement proceedings against Hungary. The State put a market participant at its own expense, resulting in the loss of HUF 150 billion in 2011-15. 17. Due to the missing funds of the Budapest Chamber of Commerce and Industry, an internal investigation revealed a series of suspicious payments, unduly expensive travels and the position of executive companies. The case was reported as a result of misrepresentation, and the BKIK closed the year 2015 with a loss of HUF 290 million. The organisation received a new leader, but the complete lack of transparency of the accounts could not be resolved, and no other changes in personnel eventually took place. 18. V. district real estate dump, where the municipality of Antal Rogán led the V. district sold dozens of municipal properties to people who are clearly connected to Antal Rogán. The investigation was closed in the absence of a crime. 19. Hospital equipment procurement. Carteling and overpriced, where the former Prime Minister's advisor was involved, and 79 percent of the tenders were conducted without competition. According to industry businessmen, the overpriced tenders had to sell 20 percent to the winning companies, making it about 20 percent. HUF 6.5 billion of public money came into private pockets. The investigation is supposed to be underway, but there's been no sign of him since. Wow. 20. He's a bribe in privatization of INA. Here, the Croatian Prosecutor's Office said that Zsolt Hernádi paid the Croatian President of the time ten million euros to enable MOL to acquire INA's management rights. In the absence of a criminal offence, the Hungarian prosecutor's office terminated the investigation. 21. Plan Hausmann. Moving the ministries to Castle, originally designed for 200 billion, but since then, members of the committee have said that this is more of a 1,000 billion-dollar scale, which would not be a miracle. Due to billion-dollar acquisitions of art, the lack of transparency of the project and the lack of competition in public procurement, investigations are not known. 22. Land applications, where after the amendment of the land law 65,000 hectares were offered for auction, and speculators who wanted land only because of subsidies were swarming around it. It was a report, but it hasn't been heard of any convicts since. 23. Land for the farmers! It's a land auction, where the relatives of government members and the usual buddy circles came to land at a good price. For example, Lőrinc Mészáros and his family gained more than 1000 hectares, but he was also able to buy by István Tiborcz, L. Simon László's wife, Zsolt Hernádi and Balázs Győrffy's Fideszes representative. In the context of the auctions, the complaint was rejected by the prosecutor's office. 24. Trafikmotyik, where by the time the investigation started, the state firm that applied for the application had already returned the losing material, so the prosecution did not look at the documents of the winners and compared them to the losers. Well, that's unfortunate. 25. CHAPTER IX district real estate, where municipal housing could be purchased or rented for a fraction of the market price by acquaintances of pro-government politicians. According to the authorities, cases do not even raise suspicions of abuse of office or mistreatment. 26. Budapest 2024. Zrt., where the company organizing the Olympic tender, which was withdrawn bravely, spent tens of billions on material procurement, external consultancy, media purchase and so on. There's been no news of an investigation. 27. Szilárd Kiss, who operated a visa center in Moscow while failing the national security screening. D.A. says there's no suspicion of a crime, so the investigation was terminated. 28. Várdányága, where the former manager lived for free in a local government apartment in District I, but before that he had it renovated with the municipality for several million. But there were illegal public procurements, apartments distributed to family members for pennies, EU funds calls, and Csaba Gyutai was appointed government commissioner. 29. Erzsébet camps, where the state simply gave away real estate, then it turned out that the accommodation was overpriced for students, and even prescribed phantom students to receive state aid. There's no record of an investigation. 30. It's a Chinese vaccine business, where they got their shots through a buddy brokerage company for tens of billions of dollars. You're gonna file a report? Overruled. [[14.10]] 31. The creation of university foundations and the transfer of public wealth, where hundreds of billions of assets were transferred to foundations stuffed with fidesz politicians; no investigation was launched. 32. Elios case: everyone's favorite, where the interest of the Prime Minister's son-in-law has generally modernised the public lighting of 35 settlements with EU money. According to OLAF, the work carried out was overbilled and there were signs of organised fraud in public procurement. The D.A.'s office, on the other hand, has closed the investigation in the absence of a crime, all of which, Mr. Polt, no people have been heard. 33. Ildikó Vida and the banning scandal. I ask for an interpreter, but he hasn't been responsible for politics since then. 34. In the heart of Budapest, where, during the mayorship of Antal Rogán, OLAF has already told the prosecutors that, for example, the issue of single-playing applications, with nearly ten billion EU grants, is not okay. The result? Detectives have been terminated because no suspicions of a crime have been identified. 35. Mátra Power Plant, which was first made loss, then sold to the State at double price Lőrinc Mészáros. Since then, taxpayers have had to absorb losses of tens of billions of forints, but the investigation has ceased in the absence of a crime. 36. PRO-VITAL, where the public procurement consultancy company, working for Fidesz municipalities and large public companies, worked on overpriced and fictitious contracts, and was also involved in the Elios scandal. Final result: no felony can be found. 37. A riding centre built for the training of schoolchildren and riders, with a tanning salon, for 45 million in Tápiószent márton, which was used by the son-in-law of the Fidesze Parliamentary Representative György Czerván. There's no criminal record. 38. Nyíregyháza-Sóstógyfürdő project, where the 2.1 billion-dollar EU-funded investment could have caused a billion-dollar damage. Construction without permission, mass black employment, halogen lamps accounted for 637 thousand each, otherwise available for 7500. In the absence of a crime, the investigation is closed. 39. Biodom, where the first cost was 12-15 billion, then 32.7, then 43.7 billion, and according to the latest news, 45 billion is still missing to complete. In the absence of a crime, the investigation is closed. 40. Renovation of M3 Metro-cars, where Budapest's fidesz driving was renovated for 219 million euros, which did not function normally, nor was it certain whether these were new cars of poor quality. Closed in the absence of a crime. You know, Mr Polt, I could go further here, we still have a Budapest-Belgrád railway line, a breathing machine business, Tiborcz hotel business, Tao subsidies on Felcsút with Makovecz-style boiler room, the KLIK software business, which was bought for a billion and then not used. And then we didn't talk about the money for the 1956 Memorial Year, the overpriced Liget project, Ghaith Pharaon, the Quaestor case, the All Children Live Well Foundation, the sight investments in Kisvárda, the shaman drum in Milan rotting in the dump, the András Horváth case and a thousand other topics. Mr. Polt, this, this is your scale. [[He's showing me the file he's read.]] And I just want to congratulate you on one thing, because you've managed to put yourself in the history books. We won't forget. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Tamás Bell Clap.]]
u2023-03-29-55	Thank you very much, Congressman Márton Tompos. I now give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2023-03-29-56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In the beginning, I would like to point out that Hungary's prosecution celebrated its 150th anniversary in 2021, on which occasion it is necessary to thank once again the prosecutors of the organisation who do their work with genuine professional humility and decency, and for whom political orders do not affect their work. As you can see from the report, there is a quite interesting, very impressive number from one side, and from the other side, I think it is quite frightening. This has been the case for many years, but in the report of 21, it is quite plastic once again: this is the indictment index, which, with 98.8 percent of you, has already brought the prosecution's indictment to such orwell heights. And as Mr. Attorney General pointed out in his report, the court decisions of the accused are the same as those of the accused, so the number of their convictions is very high: 87.9 percent. There is one more important number, which has also been mentioned by the Attorney General General in this regard, this is the number of criminal orders, which is very high, 74.5 percent, which, at first glance, would show us that we are dealing with the best and most beautiful, most effective prosecutor in the world, and I would not want to exclude it, and I would even like to stress that the vast majority of prosecutors act politically and professionally in our view in their response to everyday crimes. But even so, before I go into the other part of my speech, I would like to draw your attention to it, Mr. Attorney General, I have said this several times, obviously completely unnecessary, rather than to the public, that 98.8 percent of the indictment is in a fairy tale, and in a country where there is such a high level of indictment, because the D.A. would prefer not to press charges in a number of cases. And I'm not talking about political matters right now. I'm gonna get to those. I may have already mentioned here, not publicly, in professional cases, that policemen are talking about the fact that, in the case of crimes against people's truly irritating, lesser or greater property or against a person, if the prosecutor does not find it, he does not receive in his hands 100% of the complete evidence, testimony, documents that he will surely obtain the results of the prosecution that will come out at the end of the day, he would rather thank him than bring this matter to court. And once again, we're not talking about political matters yet, but we're talking about the simple little man who's been hurt, whether he's getting kape justice or justice at the end of the day or not. And that is the process, by the way, from the number of visions, it is clear how people turn to the authorities and when they turn to them, for example, what percentage of the reports will otherwise be prosecuted or even investigated, which we both know, Mr. Attorney General, is a fraction of the reports. And once again, these are not matters that are politically affected, these are matters of the protection of everyday people, for which, by the way, the institution you run has been set up. There is, however, another part, a small set of prosecutors, the prosecutor's office, for which I must say to myself that this High Prosecutor's Office and this prosecutor's office are not an independent institution dreamed of according to the Constitution, an institution independent of executive power and politics, but specifically not only to serve the current system, but also to my conviction that we believe it is a concrete pillar from the very first minute. And that is only possible, as the speakers before me have said, simply through you, this institution is conceptually impossible to be independent of politics, conceptually impossible to be independent of the current governing party, conceptually impossible to be independent of the functioning and interests and intentions of the Fidesz party in recent years, by the way. You, Mr. Attorney General, everyone remembers, if not, that is why I say: at the inaugural meeting of the Fidesz election meeting, you spoke at the presidential pulpit and at the presidential table, in the left with József Szájer, worthy of a better fate, with an ex-fidesz leading politician, next to Viktor Orbán. In 94 you were the candidate for Parliamentary Representative of the current governing parties. [[14.20]] And through your person in a prosecutorial hierarchy where the superintendent has a legitimate right of order, I don't think there's any further need to prove that there's a conceptual impossibility of considering the current prosecution structure and standing as independent of the current governing party. Of course, we could consider it if we could see the operation of your organization, apart from that, even by lying about it. I'm not going to go into all the cases, Mr. Attorney General, but let me just say one thing: we're going to do it because we can. He's been sitting here for years on Flória Farkas, billions disappearing, and it's clear that billions of EU and public funds, hundreds of millions of them, have been stolen straight home. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán is taking pictures and shaking hands with the person who is the main character in this case. You've been the Attorney General ever since, and nothing has happened in that case to this day. And if someone doesn't understand why not, I'll say it again, Mr.Orbán will go there and shake hands with him in public, that while I'm standing next to this man, the Attorney General will do nothing. And that's the way it is. And, of course, we could say again at the listing level I say the MNB only for the year 21, which should have been affected by this year, the Quaestor, the Elios case, the Szekszárd trapeze, the purchase of ventilators. In these cases, all hundreds of billions of dollars, and even in the Quaestor case, were caused by economic damage, but the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office seemed to have played a more protective role in these cases than in the attacker's. But I would very much like to hear from the Attorney General about why, in the Pegasus case, an independent Hungarian prosecutor's office did not have a direct sentence, a real investigation that employs the whole world, the whole country and the whole of Europe. It is clear that they have not only abused this software in Hungary, but also in several European countries. The last time Europol was heard by Members of Parliament in Brussels, it was found that the Greek Minister for the Interior, who was just sitting next to me, who is currently in opposition, was also being intercepted with the same software. So the case exists, the software exists if nothing else, at least we know it from Lajos Kósa, but the fact that the investigation of this was a meaningful activity was not very visible. And here's the current case, and while you're here, let me bring it up to the Attorney General in Schadl-Völner, which, of course, probably by some accident, has been discovered by a certain investigating authority or law enforcement agency using secret service tools. I would add that, after the recent elections, this concerned National Defence Service was quickly removed from internal affairs and placed under the influence of Antal Rogán, and then its powers were taken away, which, for example, could reveal such a Schadl case. Even from the law, he was deprived of his authority, and his number was doubled. This is not for you, but for my fellow Members and the public, just to understand how thoughtful and premeditated this investigation could have been. But, Mr. Attorney General, the way in which this prosecution is conducted is that we don't know who the Toni is and we don't care who a secretary of state may stand before a court for abuse of office, i.e. that he is using his political, legal power to make money to make certain decisions or make certain decisions, or that he doesn't make certain decisions, who is a deputy to a ministry administration, the Deputy Minister, well that in this case the responsibility of the Minister or at least his hearing doesn't come to mind anyone, I think it's clear to the day that he has political bias or doesn't have any. And here I would like to ask the Attorney General very specifically, I know that this has also been taken away from you by law, exceptionally, for how long the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office is going to stand by and watch the executive chamber [[Sic!]] It's illegal every day. Your president's in custody, no remodeling, not even replaced, nothing's happening. Once again, I know that, by chance, Antal Rogán has it; his responsibility will be considered in a different way, and I will ask him how long he, as the head of this new authority, will look forward to this process. But since you generally have business in connection with the legitimate operation of civil and public bodies and the legal operation of civil and public bodies in accordance with the Fundamental Law and the Law applicable to you, I would like to ask you to do something to ensure that a public body which, not physically, but almost physically, destroys or destroys people's lives every day in implementation, has now found out that they are making a business out of it, that this public body is still operating illegally in this way. We've been telling you for a long, long time what we don't like and we don't think we're okay. We're probably not gonna convince each other today, either, with the Attorney General. What I can say is that, in our opinion, through you, the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office is not politically independent in Hungary. To date, we have not been able to get one substantive answer to the many cases listed, and therefore, despite the fact that the vast majority of the prosecution's staff are doing their everyday work without any policy, the report of the Supreme Prosecutor's Office itself, I believe that, until this is the case, it can be voted in favour and accepted with integrity. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2023-03-29-57	Thank you very much, Congressman Tamás Bellozó. I now give the floor to Mr László György Lukács, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2023-03-29-58	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the report on the work of the Attorney General, we also clearly see that this is not the only way to report, and we are particularly pleased about that. In the two previous reports discussed today, it was not possible to say that it was written questions or even through personal questions, so it is possible to ask oral and immediate questions and to check the prosecution's work. These reports are very important, because they can guide you, focusing on not only the issues of a year that are of high public interest, but also on the functioning of the organization itself. With regard to the operation of the organisation, it should be clearly stated that we thank the prosecutors who, in this very difficult year, in 2021, in addition to the many challenges of the pandemic, may have been the most serious of them and have worked and helped in the proper and good functioning of the justice system, in cooperation with both the investigating authorities and the courts, seeking and searching for the truth of the people. I think it was a very difficult task, but it seems that the D.A.'s office has done well to handle it. What is worth mentioning and important in this connection is that it was also included in your report, Mr Attorney General, that during the reporting period, the timeliness of criminal proceedings and efficiency were also improved by the need for new solutions and the possibility of a pandemic, and the prosecution was able to act more effectively. We have to say that in recent times it may also be worth examining how much these practices may remain, or how much the prosecution has to withdraw from the practices taken on by itself during the pandemic, because many times we see that even procedural or perhaps substantive guarantees can be imposed if the prosecutor's office continues the procedure or the usual operation that it has recorded during the pandemic for understandable reasons and which has helped to facilitate timeliness. It is always worth doing a feedback that there are still the circumstances, the reasons for acceleration, or, in many cases, the more thorough or serious involvement of the persons involved in the procedure; it is always worth taking a step back. With regard to the indictment, it's really amazing that we're marching slowly towards the hundred percent, or you're marching towards the hundred percent. We could ask you how much longer, where the line is. But there is indeed something about the fact that in Hungary there will be a criminal case in which there will be an indictment. So, God forbid, cases that lie in the field of vision, in which the prosecutor believes that he does not want to risk it, either on the basis of the evidence available or the evidence obtained in the course of the proceedings so far, to make an accusation, will not, although it is likely that cases that deserve to be examined at least thoroughly in court or in some forum, and that an indictment may be made, whether with some sort of correction of charges, with a replacement self, or now with the intervention of the Integrity Authority, to be prosecuted or prosecuted in some way. [[14.30]] So the thing is, I think there's a lot of evidence, and the year-on-year improvement, although a slight improvement may indicate that there is still a vision that does not or does not necessarily well in all cases of indictment or non-compliance, failure to establish. The correction of charges, which we talked about, may also be interesting because there have been constant criticisms from the European Community, or even from political actors, about how well the Attorney General and the Prosecutor's Office are doing their job in relation to individual cases of high interest. You have typically said, and these were typically corruption cases, that there is nothing special to see in them, everything you can do, everything you can do, and it is just a feeling for people that the high level of corruption in Hungary is what it is, on the other hand, there is a very thorough procedure. And yet, the arraignment has appeared, or the possibility that the Integrity Authority... An agreement with the European Community has created this institution, so this opportunity has come to pass. So in those criticisms, whether they were oppositional or public criticisms, the prosecution's case was justified, that the prosecution was not always and not entirely well represented in this case. I think that a number of cases that are extremely and extremely offensive to everyone's sense of justice have been said, and I do not want to repeat them. The Pegasus case is one of the places where I have had the opportunity to look at qualified documents in this, and I believe it is not certain that the prosecution's proceedings on this issue will stand the test of time, and with a more thorough and prudent procedure it would probably have been possible to clarify this better. The Pegasus case will not remind us of successful and well-managed prosecution procedures, let alone the Schadl case. The fact that the investigating authority destroys any physical evidence of a prominent public figure, or that it was a video recording containing it, which could be used either for pressure or extortion in connection with the case, is not certain to constitute a prudent proceeding in an investigation. I made a complaint about this, and you rejected it. I understand that there's nothing to see here, and they're also trying to say that there's nothing to see, but I think it would be a vain idea to believe that there's only one copy of what's being recorded. So here in the coming period, it may be a completely different direction, I don't know, action will discover that you have completely unnecessarily destroyed evidence that existed with others, and could be put into much more trouble by the D.A.'s office. Perhaps we should consider these matters more carefully. What I would like to draw the prosecution's attention to is this: already in 2021 the report referred to investigations into, and prosecutions of, new psychoactive drugs, but the trend is still visible and unbroken that, by leaving the pace of the legislator far behind, and thus exceeding the pace of the investigating authority, the emergence of new psychoactive drugs, substances in our country and related or committed crimes is spreading as an epidemic. Here I think we need a very serious change in professional attitudes, either as a priority matter or as a priority group, or as a priority area. If the word "pandemic" has been used in the recent period for the coronal virus epidemic, the spread of new psychoactive substances is the same, and the investigative authority should be given particular attention and even special attention. This may be one of the most serious types of crime causing social problems in the past period. In rural Hungary, there is no settlement where the emergence of such a psychoactive agent would not cause a very serious alarm, and in socially vulnerable groups, typically in Gypsy farms or poorer environments, the spread of this within the moment and its emergence as a very serious public safety problem, often in the commission of robberies, violent crimes against a person, reveals that there is a serious network activity behind it, and there is a serious drug spread behind the problems. Therefore, this perhaps highlighted group should be given priority. The problem that comes from practice, which may also be linked to the indictment's effectiveness, is that a lot of complaints are coming, and a lot of people complain that juveniles in schools or educational institutions or in their own community life are rated above the weight of their actions, and that, when prosecuting them, they act hard, perhaps with excessive rigour, against children who are not relapsers, not notorious, not from an environment, and they typically do not carry out an act against which they really have to act hard. To give you a simple example: in vocational training institutions, there is a regular over-rating of different cocksuits, which is very, very often abusing. These children, who had not been guilty before, were not, by the way, typical in their families, or did not indicate that they otherwise belong to a very vulnerable group, even from a foster home. So he didn't have a warning, and they're facing a very strict punishment, and the prosecution may even be too hard on them to make proposals and suggestions that would result in a straight line of action that would result in some kind of break in the lives of these young people. Of course, there are small groups of outstanding anti-communicative behaviour or, typically, crimes that appear, must be strictly combated. These are familiar, the prosecutor's office does a good job in that, but there are a lot of overruns, and we see a lot of times that the Council of Juveniles negotiates matters outside a district court or tribunal, and the juveniles are typically forced to impose judgments that could put their social judgment back on a lifetime, or even their own lives or careers. To sum up all this, it can be said that the prosecutor's office acted fairly, thoroughly and carefully, professionally in the prosecution's work and in the prosecution's work in the vast majority of cases. Unfortunately, we always add that you are used to this, Mr. Attorney General, and here the links with political issues and political affairs always interfere with this big picture, but I consider this to have happened almost always, no matter what year we were, these political criticisms are said every year. Such criticism can be given to the Attorney General, but the public prosecutor's system should be guided by the first part of the speech, in which we thank for their work so far, and, of course, the political debates here either on immediate questions or on written matters, we play them and discuss them among ourselves. I can encourage you to be much braver than corruption crimes, and do not always try to blame it on the fact that in Hungary there is only one sense and a pretence of a high level of corruption. It is not only a pretense and not just a sense of it, but unfortunately, it is up to you to change that, and above all, it is up to you that it has its will and its will. We are asking you to change this, and I would add that we could also make a major difference if Hungary not only cooperated with the European Public Prosecutor's Office, which was included in this report, and not only had a cooperation agreement, but that Hungary would actually join the European Public Prosecutor's Office. I think that's still relevant, and it's definitely necessary. In this area, too, we believe that our belonging to the European Community is one of the important aspects and one of the important signs that Europe is our security. The Jobbik-Conservatives would therefore encourage you to reconsider this, and the professional debate that you consider to be closed will be resumed. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2023-03-29-59	Thank you very much, Congressman László György Lukács. I now give the floor to Mr István Apáti, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Group. [[14.40]]
u2023-03-29-60	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, Dear Parliament, Far be it from me to be the unaccepted protégé of the Attorney General's office, but let's face it, Mr. Attorney General is not in an easy position. 'Cause even if there were 24-carat gold coming out of it every minute of the 24-hour day, God wouldn't wash it off that he's one of the Fidesz and the Fidesz powers. The question is whether this statement is justified or unfounded, whether it is based on prejudice or post judgment. Without going to answer this question now, I would like to try to highlight some of the areas that have been left out of your report, Mr Attorney General. One of the issues that I have heard before me is the case of drug offences, and not only the problem of cheap drugs that are typical of almost every settlement in Hungary, the smallest rural settlement, but also of a commercial nature in relation to a much larger batch, a much higher crime value, a significant amount of more expensive drugs. I may have missed your notice, but I have not heard any data or references about the level of indictment we can have here, or how well the organised crime network has been built, how often it has been able to settle in Hungary with criminal organizations of foreign or international backgrounds, as in most European countries. This is particularly important because these tough, if you like, professional criminal groups are also present in other types of crime, whether in the arms trade, in the organisation of prostitution, and in various criminal behaviour, not only from movies, but also from everyday practice. With regard to corruption crimes, we have a serious sense of lack, and it does seem that there may be a very narrow circle, that there may be so much good news, that even when compared to pro-government opportunities, a narrowing, but still boning, quite muscular circle, which is above the law or outside the law, depends on what angle we look at it, and in practically total tranquility, they can commit any kind of corruption crime. I, too, cannot bypass the Schadl-Völner case here within the 15-minute time frame, which I have already dealt with in relation to the previous two items on the agenda, or have been affected by other opposition representatives. In relation to this, I did not hear any reference in relation to the pro-government financials, that at least the feeling of shame would be circling some of the pro-government representatives, that until the level of Deputy Minister, as far as we know, there were those who should have been kept watch over legality, that the security of life and property of Hungarian citizens should have been guarded. Instead, according to the current state of the proceedings, it seems that they have worked precisely to ensure that the executioner-mafia takes away the house, the family house, the pension, the wages, the commission fee, everything away from them, whether for entrepreneurs or for natural persons, and so we can talk about the crime value of around one billion forints at the tip of the iceberg. Maybe we haven't touched that yet. We would be interested, I think the whole country would be interested in the fact that this case actually exists, say, in the case of Pál Völner at the crime value of around HUF 83 million, and in the case of Mr Schadl at around HUF 800-900 million, because, in my humble opinion, it is not a multiple of this amount, but a multiple of that amount. And it's really facial that Schadl can still be the president of this public body, and here I would like to draw the Attorney General's attention to a problem that is not necessarily purely criminal. In particular, since Mr Schadl rightly enjoys the hospitality of the Hungarian prison and we hope that he will stay where he is for the rest of his life, because he is in a good place where he is now, what about the oaths. What about swearing an oath of executioners who are likely to carry out movable and real estate executions in the possession of an illegal oath since György Schadl was ordered to be arrested in advance or more precisely, evict honest Hungarian people as a result of highly questionable enforcement procedures in a way that is the culmination of legal usury crime? It may well be that all of these executives' actions, not only in respect of real estate executions, auctions, but also in respect of other procedural acts, are unlawful, i.e. null and void, and should in principle and practically result in the legal consequences of restoring the original state. In this regard, perhaps with a public interest, do you not think, Mr. Attorney General, that the prosecution has little to do? What about enforcement cases which, by some title, will be the subject or the basis of litigation and will be faced with a multitude of executives who are far more involved in this case? In the beginning, any action that has been taken as a result of a non-existent, illegal oath is invalid, illegal, and has already been appointed in breach of the law. Do you agree with the view, Mr Attorney General, that those who have been definitively confirmed to have been legally appointed by law, that they have taken invalid oaths, or that both, at the same time, because there will be those who have both at the same time, and that all of their procedural actions in all cases of enforcement going backwards are invalid and will result in the restoration of the original state? This is a very serious issue, because we could bring justice to many Hungarian people even at the end of a simplified or simplified process that will be created for this purpose. And shouldn't you really be talking about this case, that György Schadl can still be president? And by the way, the fact that they are prosecutors or detectives, we don't see that clearly yet, they're removing physical evidence in a case because, in their view, it doesn't matter, it doesn't have relevance in a given procedure, it's actually a toaster, and I think it's a net crime in itself. On the one hand, they probably didn't solve almost anything by doing so, because it is likely that recordings could have gone somewhere else, to others, and then these individuals will decide, where appropriate, in politically sensitive periods, how, why, and how much to market these substances for. And what do you know? You may know that the recordings of a person not necessarily a politician, but a public figure, with sensitive involvement in adult films, can be seen on one of the records or cassettes or God knows on what medium, but then may be seen by the actions of other public figures that may not necessarily increase popularity, either criminally or morally objectionable. Wasn't it because of the sensitive political involvement that he made these materials disappear? If so, we would be curious to know whose orders or orders, but we know that there is a good chance that they will not be found out in the foreseeable future. I would also like to know what you said a few years ago at a hearing on the Justice Committee. Our discussion at the time ended in a bit of a mess, and I trust that we will now be able to exchange ideas more calmly. Because then you said the content quote follows that a number of investigations carried out by covert or secret means will reach the stage of almost complete evidence, which would be suitable for later prosecution, which will then suddenly be stopped, one moment after the other, stopped, and from then on the whole process will be stopped, and the work done until then and, where appropriate, prosecutorial work will be completely meaningless or useless. This was said at some point in the 2014-18 cycle, so it wasn't the day before yesterday. This was a very remarkable statement from the Attorney General, I am curious to see whether we could meet from 2018 until today, or even in 2021. What is the extent to which your information indicates that secret or concealed means are being used to detect or investigate corruption, Mr. Attorney General, the corruption exposure of the following two areas or the possibility of corruption contamination? These are two special areas, one of which is now highlighted by history, and it is very right that the Hungarian state is thinking in the development of forces, and this is indeed a priority goal now, with which Mi Hazank agrees to the farthest, so the problem is not here. The problem is that procurements, public procurements related to the development of forces typically result in legal exemptions, exemptions from the application of the rules of the Public Procurement Act, or such exemptions are granted by the competent committee of Parliament on a case-by-case or general basis. If at any point, the risk of corruption can be quite high here. [[14.50]] However, due to the nature of the acts, these are generally international acquisitions, there may be very serious obstacles at all to the initiation of an investigation or the initiation of a secret gathering of information. There is any concept or idea at all, since the main interest of the state or national interest is to be able to buy as much money as possible and more tools as possible, not to allow the Hungarian state to obtain very few advanced military technology tools from the framework provided by multiple overpriced means, which is a race with time due to the war in our neighbourhood. Corruption may, therefore, be of multiple harm to the national interest and, where appropriate, to the interests of protecting Hungary's territorial integrity. The other, which has been mentioned several times in various debates, I forgot to mention it myself, but I do not forget now, and this is the almost unlimited possibility of tax fraud or fiscal fraud linked to the operation of casinos. According to our latest and most recent information, we would be very happy if this rebuttal were to be said, these casinos are still not connected to the online cash register or online control system of the NAV. You do not think, Mr. Attorney General, that there would be a sea of work to be done in this case, as it is a facial toaster that, say, the cosmetics or hairdresser operating in Szamostatarvár village should be connected to the online system of the NAV, but the casinos producing ten or a hundred billion forints annually, which, if any, belong to ministerial, current ministerial interests, even though they do not have such obligations. So it's almost a statement to decide how much revenue they've generated. We have no idea what kind of control is possible in the absence of online connection. Wouldn't you consider this to be a source of risk that would seriously harm the state register and seriously harm the Hungarian people? Here, however, it might be much easier to identify and prove these cases, as in the case of corruption threats linked to possible development of forces. Then another important issue, which may be slightly different from what has been discussed so far, may still have that time, is linked to the imposition of imprisonments to be carried out. I know it's more of a matter of home affairs, but I hope you have some opinion about it, some concept, some suggestion. I am thinking that, at the moment, there may be four thousand more people in the Hungarian prisons, four thousand more people spend their imprisonment than there would be room for official detention in Hungarian prisons, and there would be an enormous need for a prison-building programme that seems to be completely laid down by the government. We started from there, we started from the construction of eight or nine Bv institutions six to seven years ago, and then it fell to three, and then it fell. Now it seems that exactly that one remains standing, specifically in my home town, Csenger, will fall into a well, obviously due to a lack of budgetary resources. How many seats do you think would be needed? It understands this kind of prison-building programme or the establishment of existing seats, as it is crucial that prison sentences which are predominantly imposed or ordered by the courts with a fairly high degree of efficiency on the motion of the prosecutor should be carried out in appropriate circumstances. Last but not least, there is also a slightly taboo area. In particular, far be it from me to try to excuse criminals, rascals, bad guys or rascals, and it may be easy to judge people here, based on prosecutorial and partly police discipline, in many cases policemen, whether on a case-by-case or regular basis contact points, informants, in a simpler way, to pronounce, declare, testify, false testimony, evidence on weak feet, better case, say, not to be sentenced, or even to imprisonment, in worse cases. Due to its nature, it is very difficult to reveal. It is easier to talk about this, it is harder to explore these acts, but if you are experienced professionals in this field for several decades, you may also be able to pay some attention to this internal examination of the reality of the indictment efficiency. So I would ask the Attorney General to try to give me as precise answers as possible to the comments listed above. If I have a question that requires a longer examination, I will, of course, accept the detailed answer in writing. It doesn't matter if I get an answer to a question in 15 or 30 days. Thank you. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-03-29-61	Thank you very much, Congressman István Apáti. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We now have further speeches from our representatives. I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, LMP.
u2023-03-29-62	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, Allow me, at this stage of the debate, not only to respond to the Attorney General's report or the prosecutor's report, but also to what was said in the debate. I am also seeking to put specific questions, not only to the Attorney General, but also to President Vejkey, in part, about what he said in his comments. I would like to begin with a question addressed to Congressman Vejkey. My fellow Members have listed a lot of corruption cases here, a lot of cases that reek of corruption and have no consequences. Mr President, the President of the Committee on Justice, do you consider this to be a minework, that a Member of Parliament should present these matters to the public under such an item on the agenda? Obviously, you are aware of these matters and their consequences, and of the absence of their consequences. Would this be the minework itself, when an opposition representative or any of the Members do their duty? But let's see how strong the prosecution's report is. I have to quote that literally. This is how the report begins, that we can read at the beginning that the subjective assessment of Hungary's corruption situation is not exactly the same as objective facts, and that the data obtained on the basis of the latter methods show that Hungary's corruption situation does not differ from the average in the Member States of the European Union except in the health sector. So I feel that this is a very strong statement. Why is it that people feel that corruption is at historic level in Hungary? Why did this happen? Congressman Vejkey had a wording that Fidesz represents the rule of law. Well, I think it is also a kind of rule of law that Fidesz represents, and that can be described, by the way, in cases that are symbolic, which my fellow Members have mentioned several times. Mr. Congressman, and now Mr. Secretary of State is back, very good, isn't it, the Secretary of State, sitting in the seat of his predecessor for years when the Ministry of Justice [[Dr. Répássy Robert sits on the chair next to him. Defiance.]] Yeah, well, Mr. Secretary of State made a quick shift attack, that's justified, so when you had to represent the government, the Ministry of Justice, for years, then Pál Völner sat here. Pál Völner argued about these matters, Pál Völner argued and distributed them, or I don't know. [[Dr. István Apáti: Flegmán, with a big face!]] So he argued, he defended the honor of the government's munder in corruption cases, and he talked about the system of execution for years, the Deputy Minister of Justice. According to the D.A.'s information, according to investigative evidence, the consequences of these investigative material on the other side of the investigation have already been heard, or the consequences on the other side have already been heard, and on the basis of this information, the Deputy Minister of Justice, the Chief Minister of Justice, could be said to have established a corruption relationship with one of the chief executives of the Mafia in 2018. So I think this symbolizes what appears in research, and even in the number of researches cited in the prosecutor's report, that there is a consensus over relative political trenches, that corruption is at historical level in Hungary, and that has certainly reached the highest levels of government, because the Deputy Minister of Justice is involved in these matters according to the prosecutor's office. In itself, I think it is symbolic, and it says a lot about your system that this man, Pál Völner, may still be on the loose today, even practicing as a lawyer for a very long time. It's quite amazing, but it's symbolic for your system, by the way. It is also that the person who is the head of the executive mafia, György Schadl, who, by the way, can be considered the most corrupt Hungarian enforcer in the court, can continue to be the President of the Hungarian Court Executive Faculty, and this raises such specific legal problems, which my fellow Members have mentioned here. However, there is not only an inherited legal situation here, but there is also a political responsibility here, based on the political action of the last few weeks or months, because this motion has been canceled twice, which could otherwise have been resolved. [[15.00]] I would also like to mention one more case here at the beginning, which has also been mentioned by a fellow Member, that after seven years of investigation, Flórian Farkas only got away with taking the hit. I think this symbolizes this system. So there are very, very interesting comments here. For example, the prosecution's report refers to the representative Eurobarometer research that 87 percent of respondents considered corruption a widespread problem in Hungary, which is higher than the EU average of 71 percent from the point of view of the prosecutor's office, but Hungary is in the middle field. I do not know, Mr Attorney General, this could be seen as a positive conclusion that with this data Hungary is in the middle of Europe, that virtually 87 percent of respondents believe that corruption is a very serious problem. We're gonna make it to the craziest case here, the Schadl-Völner or the Völner-Schadl case. I hope you will not consider this a minework, Mr President, if I talk about this in a little bit more detail. Several of my fellow Members have asked the Attorney General's opinion on this situation, which has come to the conclusion that the prosecution has something to do with this, and in particular what the Attorney General's view is on the situation that this person may still be the President of the Executive Faculty. Here's a little reminder of what's been going on in the last few weeks or months. During a summer debate last year, Secretary of State Répássy replied to one of my questions that it is not acceptable for an executor relieved of his office to take the lead of the Executive Faculty. By the way, I also read that you expressed your regret, Mr State Secretary, when last December perhaps the Executive Board held a general assembly and did not recall György Schadl. I also wrote them a letter, and a deputy resident in Pécs was mentioned under interesting circumstances in one of these wiretap files after a month, and his reply revealed that they had no intention of recalling György Schadl. By the way, encouraged by what Secretary of State Répássy said here last summer, I tabled a bill in order to deal with this existing, demonstrated and recognised anomaly in the legislative environment, and I have already brought this to the Committee on Justice twice, where Congressman Vejkey presides. I also referred to the fact that we are talking about the most corrupt Hungarian enforcer in this environment, already recognised by the court, or at least in this context. A man who, for years, has given bribes to the Minister's deputy in order to abuse her own opportunities in the way that she is in her best interests. And this man can still be the President of the Executive Faculty without being an executor. At the time, Mr President also argued that the presumption of innocence is an important principle, which is obviously true, but I feel that this argument was wrong, since it cannot work as an enforcer, because of the objective facts and data, György Schadl is already working. As with a little delay, however, Paul Völner can no longer work as a lawyer despite the fact that the judgments have not yet been delivered. Yet, because of such a bad legislative environment, which can be derived from the law you have adopted, it is still impossible to remove this man from the presidency of the Executive Faculty, which raises very serious moral problems, given the fact that many Hungarian people and Hungarian families have ruined the lives of these corrupt bastards, these corrupt executives. On the other hand, it also raises serious legal problems that, to date, the newer and newer appointed bailiffs do not go to prison to take an oath. I have tabled this proposal twice, I repeat, encouraged by Secretary of State Répássy in his speech to the Committee on Justice, and it has all been cancelled twice. The last time I took the case to the Legislative Committee, and it was quite amazing to see that no representative from Fidesz or KDNP spoke, a little on the lookout, a little bit of an absence on this proposal. But let us be clear, and I think that this is what interests the public that, as a result of your political decision, György Schadl may still be president of the Hungarian Court Executive Faculty. So let this be clear to everyone: if you hadn't canceled this proposal twice, this man could have been removed from this important position by law. I would like to go back to the specific questions that I would like to address. We know that György Schadl may have been arrested as early as November 2021, but does the Attorney General feel it necessary to hear Secretary Judit Varga on this matter, I repeat: in the case of serious corruption involving his former deputy? How do you see this happening, and if it does, when will it happen? I am also asking this question because a lot of people are asking me the same question. I take advantage of this opportunity, by the way, Mr Attorney General, here is Secretary of State, Minister Judit Varga's current deputy, President of the Justice Committee. For me, an answer is fine with anyone. So you think it will happen that you will listen to Secretary Judit Varga? My next question is why Paul Völner may still be at large. I would like to address this matter to the Attorney General. A lot of people are asking me that, and I'm passing on this question. I hope we get an answer, and I don't basically get an answer, but the many, many Hungarians who rightly expect the situation to be clear. Here I explained in more detail how I tried to enforce a bill that would allow the corrupt executive to be removed from this position. What is your opinion, and this question has already been raised, and I apologize to the Attorney General for the repetition, that the prosecution has something to do with the situation that György Schadl is currently President of the Hungarian Court Executive Faculty? My last question again refers to a case that has already been mentioned in part, that in the case of a program called "bridge to the world of work" not long ago, we read a few months ago that the case was closed in the absence of evidence, so Flórian Farkas got away with making an inquiry. How could this happen, Mr. Attorney General, in addition to the fact that the Ministry of Human Resources has initiated 24 irregularities in public procurement and procurement conducted by the National Roma Municipality, and 11 cases of irregularities have been identified, and overall, for the sum of HUF 1.6 billion, the EMMI investigation concluded that the total amount is suspected of irregularity? How could it happen, Mr. Attorney General, that, following such serious and strong findings, the case was closed in the absence of evidence and no one was held responsible, Flórian Farkas escaped this case? I have a specific question in connection with this, that there has been an interrogation of Flórian Farkas. I couldn't find any specific information about that. So this interrogation took place? So what has been said here, which my fellow Members have also said, I think it is quite clear why in Hungary the feeling that corruption is at historical level has emerged, almost regardless of party political views. [[To Dr. Imre Vejkey:]] Mr President, I'm sorry to address you so many times, but we've heard some very impressive statements. I think these are the extremely serious corruption cases that the Deputy Minister of Public Prosecutor's Office has committed, that is the minework and that minework against the Hungarian people, the Hungarian society that corrupt executives are doing. The mine work that György Schadl did on the D.A.'s record isn't if there are representatives here to draw attention to that. Allow so many criticisms, Mr President. I, too, would like to conclude by thanking everyone within the prosecution's organization for doing what is their duty in a fair and honest manner. Thank you very much.
u2023-03-29-63	Thank you very much, Congressman László Keresztes. The next speaker is Congressman István Apáti, Mi Hazank.
u2023-03-29-64	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, In accordance with his presidential intelligence, I would like to add a few more things, not by shouting in, but by speaking to, that which did not last 15 minutes. In fact, I would like to ask the Attorney General how he sees the areas and reasons of self-criticism, either at the organizational level or at the highest level of leadership. So here we really had the feeling, listening to your report, that everything is absolutely fine, that there is nothing to see here, that everyone can safely pack their bags, go home, drink their tea, and go to bed, because here we are already facing the best of the existing worlds, that sin is persecuted with 100% effectiveness, that sinners have been punished for the reality and, in fact, the subjective judgment of people is in stark contrast. There's no reason for me to draw attention here with a rather bold parallel to the simple village beautician's approach to casinos, because these phenomena irritate people the most. They feel that the state is in their pockets, that if a single forint tax is not paid, they can have serious tax and, where appropriate, criminal consequences, while those who are in multimillion-dollar suits and make up the laws can not only theoretically, but practically everything and anything they can do, destroy organizations operating as secret services just because they have done their job effectively. [[15.10]] So I'd like to hear self-criticism from you. As in the case of the National Roma Municipality, which is once again a face toaster, it is 1600 million forints. I'd bet a lot of money if I personally did 1 percent of this, I'd sit more than Buddha, and I'd be squatting a long time ago, ladies and gentlemen. Flórian Farkas may be on the loose because, frankly, he can sleep at an open window because no one will steal his mind because he has made a plea bargain, but this is not a plea deal according to the rules of criminal proceedings, but a political plea deal. There is only one benefit of this Hungarian policy and Hungarian public life that it is no longer here, but as unfortunate as we are, he may somehow be smuggled back from the list to the House from one of these cycles. Allow me to make one more comment, Mr. Attorney General, I would like to draw your attention to the district attorneys. Because we often experience, especially in North-East Hungary, the farther we are from Budapest, where many times the prosecutor's organisation is actually viewed from an ivory tower, whether the courts or the police, I could list almost every system of public organizations, the greater the distance measured in kilometres between Budapest and the district prosecutors' office in this case, the less the problems can be seen, and the more the district prosecutors feel that they are stepchildren, and they do not really take their opinions into account, they do not know their problems, and they do not want to know their problems. I could also ask you that, in relation to the remuneration of non-prosecutorial or job workers, you are expected to have a wage improvement, I could ask you about the wage development of the district attorney's office, but I would rather suggest something to you or to you. I cannot recommend a disguised countrywalk, because it would probably be easy to recognize the Attorney General, so it would be difficult to hide from the eyes of the watcher, but it would be worth continuing a deeper search, a deeper insight, an investigation and an analysis at the District Attorneys' Offices, especially with regard to staff management. A lot of district attorneys, fair, well-prepared district attorneys, think that they are far less than the number of prosecutors needed, while, where appropriate, a waterhead has emerged in Budapest or other major cities. Let's not settle this with the fact that, of course, we are talking about the usual capital-region conflict, and in fact, it is not so bad here either, because even often the state of the buildings of the district attorneys is unworthy or not worthy of the prosecutor's office, the IT equipment... I know many times that they work with computers that they don't believe, I see you, they think I'm exaggerating, but believe me, they do not, on machines that Noah may have worked on at the time; I say this very seriously, and there are far fewer people than the amount and quality of cases that would justify and drown in work. For various reasons, they have little or no opportunity to move forward, and the solution could be a more frequent moral and somewhat more muscular financial recognition. So I would ask Mr. Attorney General to look calmly at district prosecutors, the soldiers who work at the ends, most decently working, to say so in the words of the word, that soldiers should not only have little reason to be satisfied by their well-paid colleagues working in the capital. Thank you very much.
u2023-03-29-65	Thank you very much, Congressman István Apáti. The next speaker is Congressman László Keresztes, LMP.
u2023-03-29-66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and sorry to ask you again for a very short time, I simply forgot to bring up an important matter, which was also mentioned by the Attorney General General, Mr President. On environmental issues, various indicators have been mentioned by the Attorney General, and these are included in the report. In this context, allow me a feedback, and this is obviously a significant part of a legislative issue, but I meet with a lot of these cases, deal with a lot of them, and I am very conscientiously trying and trying to follow up on such cases. These include very significant, amazing and, where appropriate, very serious cases affecting the lives of a part of the city, and I always do, of course, after gathering as much information as possible, that I will press charges in these cases. There are times when he has to run several times in order for anyone to deal with them at all, and indeed, there are very, very harsh mergers. For example, I think that foreign garbage flows into the country, and, by the way, in a lot of places, it was quite obvious that foreign waste coming from Italy was flowing into the country and that they were being depopulated in large quantities through false activities, where appropriate, close to residential areas, which is very easy to achieve. So they get permission from the government office for processing, so that they do not meet the basic conditions, the authorities are notified, nothing happens, and, where appropriate, the specific fire risk arises, for example, in the case of thousands of tons of completely irregular waste mountains. I have faced many times that, unfortunately, either the investigation was terminated, or those who, by the way, put communities at risk could run away with ridiculous sentences of a few hundred thousand forints. So, given the state of play on environmental issues during the debate, I wanted to say this as a reaction that I think that we have a lot of work to do here on the one hand in the field of law enforcement and on the other hand in the area of legislation in order to preserve the healthy environment of our settlement. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2023-03-29-67	Thank you very much, Congressman László Keresztes. No one has made any further comments, so the joint general debate is closed, and I would like to ask Mr Péter Polt, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Go to the pulpit. You have the floor, Mr. Attorney General.
u2023-03-29-68	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity. I listened with interest to the comments and questions, and some of them affected the current agenda for today's agenda. [[Defiance.]] There are others that I will respond to, but there I can afford the freedom of choice, because otherwise it does not belong to the agenda. What I won't respond to is personal. In general, I reject the fact that the D.A. is politically motivated, distinguished by the parties, in violation of the law. This is not true, it is false, it is just the opposite, and it is with respect to prosecutors and other employees who worked in 2021, before and after. Their work can be verified and justified at any time by the statement I just made, and everyone is involved in this, because, as has been said here by several speakers, honest prosecutors of course work well. Yes, the honest Hungarian prosecutor's office works well, and everyone whose hands mark this work, which we put on the table year after year, is involved in this. I have thanked Mr Vejkey and Mr Demeter for their contributions, and I agree with the ideas that have been expressed there, but I do not need to explain this further, I think. The other comments. Mr Sebian-Petrovsk did not deal in a significant part with 2021, but I do respond to one or two things, of course. It is not simply true that, in the current debate on the rule of law, the prosecutor's office is an argument that Hungary is crushing the rule of law. Show me such a European Commission or other European Union authority! That's not true. The judicial package we're about to hear is not for the prosecution. I don't even know how the boots end up on the table. Of course, in the same way as the various authorities in other countries, including the prosecutors' offices, the various services and institutions of the European Union are investigating and making their findings. For example, GRECO is used to carrying out these investigations, and, let's say, it makes such critical findings that it is not entirely clear in Hungary's prosecutor's office what is going on with the transfer of cases, how it can be tracked. [[15.20]] We have studied this criticism, we have vowed, we have created accessibility and traceability, and GRECO has accepted it. There are criticisms of this kind, and we will do what is up to us. There are, of course, legislative criticisms, but it is not for us, and it is for us to turn to the legislator. Looks like we're in the right place. Therefore, what has been said by the Member does not contain any real statements that could or should be responded to in a different way. Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, you have long explained that criminal matters against pro-government, not pro-government representatives, are discrimination in these matters. We do not make such a distinction, it does not matter whether it is pro-government or not. If a criminal offence is suspected and it's a high-level government official or a representative, pro-government or opposition political figures, it doesn't matter to us, it doesn't matter. The point is, there's a probable cause against your person, and we're taking action against that. I do not wish to list, as you have given up the high ball of whom the prosecution of Hungary has brought proceedings against, requested the suspension of immunity, or against other high-ranking officials, which could otherwise be classified for a long time. The one thing that has been said here by name and the former Deputy Minister or his associates has received a disparaging rating from the Member, saying that this is not a significant issue either. Compared to this, almost everyone was discussing it for a long time and considered it a very important matter. It's an important matter, by the way. [[László Sebian-Petrovski: He's out!]] Like all other cases are important. I'll answer that, just wait and see. In many cases in this case, and not only you, others have raised the question of why you are on the loose. What I don't understand is why you guys are so ill-informed. It's been raised several times, even in public. I have received several written questions on this subject, I have answered them nicely, not only the recipients can know their content; these answers can also be found on the D.A.'s website. He's on the loose because criminal laws are what they are. These laws are not made by us, but by you. There are also general and specific reasons for the arrest, which have not been met, in principle because the Deputy Minister in question was also a Member of Parliament and had immunity, just as you have the same immunity. If you want to know my opinion on this, I've written a whole book about it, and I'd be happy to send you access to it. [[Dr. István Apáti: He hasn't been a congressman in a year! The president's gonna ring the bell.]] Well, I'm begging you. Then let us study the law on criminal proceedings, when there is room for prior arrest: if you have to fear his escape or his hiding, if you have to fear the removal of evidence, if you have to fear collusion with accomplices. During a period of the case when all these reasons cease to exist, it is not lawful to propose this, according to Hungary's rule of law [[László Sebian-Petrovski: Schadl is released, does that mean?]] against any statement contrary to the law, and the D.A. may propose what is contained in the law. I don't want to give you the ball back, that's what the law says. To go further, Mr President, he said that we also deny the existence of corruption in the annual report. Again, it's a false claim. [[László Sebian-Petrovski: No!]] He said that, you can look back in the minutes, and I wrote that in the report we say that there is no such thing as corruption in Hungary, according to the report. Yes, you can. [[László Sebian-Petrovszki: He said it at a committee meeting! It's a committee meeting.]] That I said that? [[The president's ringing again.]] Well, then, Congressman, we have a bad memory, either you or me. I can't say that, not even because I wrote and signed someone else. Of course there is corruption, but it is neither the scale nor the quality of what you have said here. Several references have been made to different surveys. Some have rightly added that this is a momentary survey, a survey of corruption. We are not concerned with feelings and emotions, we are concerned with facts, and the facts are given by what is in the criminal code. In the criminal code there are crimes, corruption crimes, we assume, and our statistics assume that they have committed such crimes, what they have done, how many have committed them. That's what I base my opinion on. And the point is that, by not joining the EPPO, at the same time, we are setting up an Integrity Authority and other institutions and making various legislative changes, we acknowledge that corruption in Hungary is incredibly high. Then the countries that have joined the European Public Prosecutor's Office recognise it even more, because they also transfer the administration of these matters to an international authority rather than to the national authorities, and this means, in your view, that they do not trust their own national authorities. Neither one case nor the other case is the way you interpret it. They didn't join because they didn't trust their authorities, and we didn't reject them either, and then we created the Integrity Authority because the Hungarian authorities can't handle it anymore. The next speaker on behalf of the Momentum: I do not want to repeat myself of the criticisms I do not wish to respond to, I think it would not be worthy of this House either. However, I would like to draw the speaker's attention to the need to update the information that has been provided and published here. You can read most of what you said in the Borsod24 article, and obviously with the data you received from it, in other articles. It's just that it's Article 21, CHAPTER IX It appeared in the snow, and a lot has happened since then, so much of what you have said is outdated. In many cases, some other steps have been taken, such as indictment, such as, in the Öveges case, or termination of the Bridge to the world of work, or an indictment has also been made in the Alstom case. [[15.30]] I suggest that you keep up-to-date information from the press, but even more so, that if you want authentic information, you come to me with a written question, and I'll be happy to give you all the information I can give you as the Attorney General. Congressman Bell, the indictment is very high. I could take that as a criticism of the courts; I do not take it personally, because it is the courts that agree with the prosecution. By the way, I don't consider this to be a devil's thing or an all-over feature. This indictment must be assessed in conjunction with many other factors. Hungarian legislation is such that I now return to the law again, the respect of the law is fundamental, and not only its respect, but also its compliance with the prosecutor's office. It's possible to press charges if the D.A. is convinced that there's been a crime and that the person he's prosecuting has committed it. You can't press charges, and Congressman should know as well as I do, even though you don't deal with criminal matters as intensely as I do, but you've learned that we can't try to get the court to decide whether I'm insecure or not, I'm pushing the responsibility away from myself, but I'd rather not say the decisive word. To prosecute the court, there are unbelievable serious consequences to the prosecution itself, to the prosecution itself. This cannot be accepted under Hungarian law. There is a legal system where this can be done. But to continue this thought. I have just mentioned in the oral amendment your spare private life, which, by the way, I am very much in favour of and in favour of, because it is also an opportunity to control the prosecution's activities. And that's why I said that we'd looked back years at the effectiveness of the extra-private partnership, and that's how we got that six percent. Not good, I agree with that, even the 6 percent is high for me, that if you have already asked Mr Apáti about self-criticism, it would also be good to push this down, but I think that if you look at it in comparison, even with foreign examples, it is a very good result. So the fact that 6 percent and 94 percent of the replacements are successful and not, indicates that the decisions to terminate and reject them are generally correct. And I'll tell you the truth, I can think of this ratio as much as I can, but not even that much, in the case of supplementary private space, which is available from January 1st. Here you have brought various cases, Congressman. I think that what you've said about covering up little people's affairs is that if I understand you correctly, you've said something like that, or at least you're not listening to them, that's not factually true. So this is not possible under the procedural system. If you file a complaint, it goes into the system, there's a trace of it, and it's being checked at a number of points, it's being checked by the D.A., it's the investigating authority, and it's something that has to happen, and the final result is that if there's rejection or termination, there's also the victim's potential replacement privacy. You're wrong, Congressman, someone else mentioned that there was an investigation, but there was an investigation into the Pegasus case. But what was there to look at? We were able to deal with this as a criminal case, and we should have proved significant harm to our interests. Every person we know in the Pegasus case was approached by the D.A.'s office that there was such an insult, and there was none. So it was a very conscientious, detailed investigation. I believe that those who have done this should be honoured here as well. And the Schadl case wasn't an accident, it was a very professional and also commendable investigation by the Central Detective Attorney General. It's very interesting to hear that once they say that it's really a coincidence, an accident, and here the D.A. didn't do anything, and then they say, "Well, that's the size of the scandalum," and they quote the wiretap that's been made public, and how did that happen, the biggest scandal of all time? ! If this is the greatest scandal of all time, then this is also the greatest investigation of all time, I add. You have also said what has appeared many times later and before: in the case of executive chamber, the prosecution has no jurisdiction, there is nothing we can do about it. If they do, we'll deal with it, but until then, we can't, because the laws won't allow it. Congressman Luke: your words about the prosecutor's working methods, as I understand it, are commendable, thank you very much. I was talking about your supplementary privacy, and you mentioned it. I'm in favour of the extra private institution, and I'm in favour of your extra private. In 19 I have already suggested that if we do not join EPPO in 2019, then you should be able to make additional private storage. I have heard this proposal back from the committee, and I am proud of that, by the way. It came up here, but I mention it only because of its general nature, the destruction of physical evidence, specifically in this particular executor case. They weren't evidence. That's why they were destroyed. If there had been any crime that would have been proven, then, I agree, it could not have been destroyed, but this was investigated by the Central Detective Attorney General, sought out everyone, interrogated anyone who could have played a role in this case. There was no crime found that would arise and was therefore legally destroyed under the law. I fully agree with the comments on drugs and drugs, this is a very important area. We're trying to make it work. There were thousands of procedures here in 2021, and we want to continue this, in line with the investigating authorities and the courts. In my opinion, we do not act hard on minors, unless the victims are, and then we have to represent the interests of the victims, but I would still argue about toughness. He also raised the accession to the EPPO, Mr President, that is obviously not the competence of the prosecutor's office. Congressman Abbot, it's also a drug: I just answered that. By the way, there were over 7,000 such crimes that we were involved in in 2021. I also mentioned the executive case, but the fact that he's still president is not our fault, not our competence, so there's nothing we can do about it. This whole thing is being supervised by the Supervisory Authority for Regulatory Activities, not by the D.A.'s office. You said the destruction of the physical evidence, and I gave you the answer. [[15.40]] With regard to evidence obtained by secret means, it was likely that data were produced during the proceeding which could not be used due to procedural rules. So they could have served as evidence of a crime with common sense, but by some legal provision... for example, because, not in that case, the use of the secret device was not ordered for that person, but the use of such data was accidentally made in connection with their application, then the use is always questionable. There are options, but they are not to be used directly. For example, in such cases, a preparatory procedure can be ordered, and we do so. Otherwise, the imposition of secret devices is essentially a judicial task, and the judge also decides on its scope and duration. Obviously, where there is suspicion, this should be used, whether it is a development of forces or any other important economic interest. In the case of casinos, why are there still gaps in the online cash register? It's not my question. I think we're gonna have to put this on someone else. There's really little prison capacity. By the way, we've come to the point that we're doing quite well now. All of a sudden, it's the smuggling cases that have caused the prison population to grow. Various measures have already been taken. We can't watch whether it's got capacity or not. If a man deserves a sentence of imprisonment, then we must make a motion whether there is a prison or not. Then the government and the legislator will somehow address this problem. What I didn't answer will be in writing, as the congressman wished. Mr. Crusading Congressman! I told you about this. We must distinguish the crime statistics of corruption from the measurement of corruption perception. What you said was 87 percent and middle level. But this again shows the number of corruption not manifested in actual crimes, but that the Eurobarometer said that these responders said that corruption is a widespread problem; it is not that it is based on them or on their direct perception. This is completely different, and I hope you can see that, too, Congressman. These are what we're talking about: all we can talk about is one crime, ten crimes, five thousand crimes, and they fit in with the Btk. within the framework of the programme. That's what we say. And I think that the Eurobarometer survey that we refer to confirms, among other things, this opinion. It is, therefore, that the hearing of the Minister of Justice was then required in a specific case and then decided on this particular case by the court which has already been heard; and I have already responded to the preliminary arrest. No one said that there were no irregularities in the work world of the Bridge. The procedure itself has been established, but there is a need to distinguish between irregularities and personal criminal liability, which is not only done by us, but also by OLAF, for example. Congressman Abbot: is there a self-critical remark? Yeah, a lot of them. I do not consider our work on the settlement to be sufficient, our activities, I do not consider it sufficient to make a statement to the court, the prospect of a prosecutor's measure, we need to continuously strengthen the instruction within the prosecutor's office, there is still a deficiency, we have work to do. We need more public-interest investigations; yes, we have such self-critical remarks. As for the district attorney's office, we'll keep an eye on him. Yesterday I was in two counties in Vas and Zala County, I met all the prosecutors in both counties, and there was a chance to exchange ideas. There are no less people than the capital, and the capital is much more demanding and equipped with modern tools. There's no old computer in the D.A.'s office. I'm happy to say that. Look around any district attorney's office, that's what you'll find. And the salary is the same, it's legal. It couldn't be different or less. Thank you very much for your attention. If there is any substantive question I have accidentally forgotten to answer, I will do so in writing. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-03-29-69	Thank you very much, Attorney General Péter Polt. The rapporteur for the decision was Imre Vejkey, Chairman of the Committee on Justice. I'm asking you, do you wish to answer? [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor.
u2023-03-29-70	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, As a closing point, I have an easy task, because the Attorney General has answered the questions raised, the questions that belonged to this item on the agenda, so I have only one thing left to encourage you, opposition representatives, to reconsider your attitude to this report and to the resolution proposal and to vote for it. And by the way, this Schadl-Völner case just proves that the D.A.'s office is independent. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause.]]
u2023-03-29-71	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Commission. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its meeting at 11 a.m. on Friday. Meeting day's closed. Good evening, everyone.
