u2023-02-20-0	[[Most of the people in this room stand up and greet the electoral community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good afternoon. I warmly welcome my fellow Members and welcome all those who are following our meeting today. Extraordinary session of the Parliament is now in session. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. [[The representatives of the Dialogue, Szabó Timea, Rebecca Szabó, Bence Tordai and Sándor Berki wear a white T-shirt, with the following subtitles: "Stop Toxic Battery Factories! Green Hungary!]] Dear Parliament, I declare 42 Members of the Parliament Act 35. H/2891 on social participation in decisions on the construction of battery production plants and installations was initiated by the Parliament to convene an extraordinary meeting. Proposal for a Decision No T/2866 amending the rules necessary for the restoration of the municipal authority's power to build. Law No 7 and H/2335 on the revision of the Strategic Partnership Agreements concluded by the Government for the protection of workers. In order to discuss a proposal for a decision. Dear Parliament, I declare that on 7 January 2023, Mr Ferenc Varga quit the parliamentary group of Jobbik, so that the number of Jobbik's group has fallen to eight. He will continue his work as an independent Member. Dear Parliament, Because of the fractions of Jobbik, MSZP and Momentum, as well as the same number of members of Mi Hazank and Dialogue, the notaries decided on 9 May 2022 on the order of the speeches. Decision No 17/B. § 2 and 3 provide that the order of the speeches between the same number of political groups varies from one ordinary session to the first floor of the political group entitled to speak, and the other group is one back. In view of the fact that the group of the Jobbik Movement for Hungary has since decreased by two, the group of MSZP and Momentum currently have ten members of the same size. Between the two six-man factions, Mi Hazank and the Group of Dialogue, the number of people will continue to be matched. According to the provisions of the resolution house rule, in the spring session of 2023, the Momentum Group precedes the MSZP Group in the order of opposition, and the Group of Mi Hungary precedes the Dialogue Group, so that the original order is actually restored. Dear Parliament, Mr Máté Kanász-Nagy applied for a pre-meeting speech from the LMP Group. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-02-20-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I could also say that honourable pro-government representatives, unfortunately none of them came to this extraordinary meeting, even though it would have been a very important topic, this is the subject of battery factories in Hungary. The fact is that although the Fidesz fraction has issued a communication that Rogán works have slipped; we will then debate on the very important issue next time that we want Hungary to become a battery company, because that is what the debate about battery production is about. The position of Fidesz on this issue is clear: Péter Szijjártó told us years ago that the interests of car manufacturers are ahead of the various aspects of sustainability. Márton Nagy recently wrote that all the money must be spent on the relocation of polluting factories. This was also a very clear position on the part of the government. In fact, the government wants to force Hungary into the next economic model, which looks like the German car manufacturers are in Hungary. These German car manufacturers produce cars for the European market and the world market. In the spirit of this modern transition, electric cars are produced, and electric cars require batteries, which are produced by the Chinese battery companies for these German car factories. And these car factories and battery companies, German capital and Chinese capital basically use Hungarian energy, Hungarian water supply and pollute Hungarian land, the Hungarian environment during its operation, this is a clear formula. We attract these factories with the following policy: tax haven conditions in Hungary, with a record low level of corporate tax. At the same time, there is a record high level of support provided by the government to this foreign capital, and there is also a broken environmental institutional system. Obviously, if they have to pay low wages, if there is much government support, if there is no need to comply with strong environmental rules, Hungary will become attractive to these factories. This is happening in the middle of the energy crisis; when we have less and less energy, they want to attract these energy-eating battery factories. This is happening in the middle of the climate crisis and the water crisis; when our water is falling, our water supply is falling, they want to bring these water-intensive, extremely water-intensive battery factories here. And this is happening during the period of the social crisis; this social crisis is also being intensified by the release of inflation. During the period of the social crisis, there is no money for, among other things, raising the wages of civil servants, raising the wages of teachers, social workers, supporting Hungarian families, as all budgetary resources are used to support or attract these car manufacturers. We, the greens, are taking a completely opposite position. We say that there are two very important principles. The first is that profit cannot prevent people from making decisions of such magnitude over the heads of people, by installing battery factories in the immediate vicinity of their houses and gardens, thus making their life opportunities and living conditions impossible. This is precisely why we initiated a national referendum on the part of the LMP to stop this policy. Another important principle is that profit should never prevent the protection of a viable environment, so that the water base, natural values and natural resources still available should be preserved and protected, which should also be passed on to future generations, rather than exposed to exploitation, natural environmental exploitation, which is caused by the operation of this foreign capital in Hungary. [[16.10]] We also say that we believe that the fight for our future will not be fought with battery factories and the production of batteries called green switchover, but will be fought against these car factories and battery factories, and here and now we will have to criticise the techno-optimist position, the political forces which paint themselves green, who are pushing for this kind of transition here, among us. We must face up to our position with this government policy in order to turn Hungary into a battery ring, and the national referendum initiated by LMP will give us the opportunity to do so. So we urge everyone to participate in this referendum. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
u2023-02-20-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. The government will not attend the meeting, as you can see, so no government response will be taken. To speak before the agenda, Madam Head of the Szabó Timea Group has applied for a speech from the Dialogue Group. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-02-20-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable members of the Government who are not here! You would say that if you were here in the last few weeks, the communication about your fever dream of turning Hungary into a power of battery manufacturer, because it will help the green transition. There's only one sentence for the government about this green transition. In 2019, Péter Szijjártó said at the Vehicle Industry Conference of the National Investment Agency that he does not support Brussels' unreasonablely restricting the competitiveness of the automotive industry by reference to environmental protection. I think that's enough to say about the fake, lying government communication painted green. By the way, compared to the fact that this battery riot is so important to the government, one single representative has not come here, nor will they answer, nor have they come to the committee meetings, nor will they stand out to argue. So it seems they know what the Dialogue and most of the people know, that the battery companies installed and installed here are destroying Hungary, destroying our drinking water, making our country more vulnerable to the energy that is already needed for export, destroying, poisoning our drinking water, poisoning the soil, poisoning the air and endangering the settlements around the factory. It seems that the government is still a coward to face these arguments, which is why no one has come today. But let us look at some very simple facts about how good it is for Hungary to become a battery power! If you look at the water, the daily use of water in the Samsung factory in Göd is 27,000 cubic metres. This represents the daily use of water in a Hungarian town of 110,000 inhabitants, such as Kecskemét. By adding the water use of all the plants installed and planned to be installed in Hungary, their daily use of water is the use of water by more than one million Hungarians. Well, where do we have so much drinking water to waste on toxic battery companies? In terms of energy use, we are in the same position. One quarter of the total annual electricity generation of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant is the electricity consumption of the Göd and the planned Debrecen plant. Even the government said that Hungary's electricity demand will increase by 30 percent after the start of the battery plants. So there is not enough energy, we are already in need of Russian import gas, but they are making Hungary more vulnerable to this, and they are destroying the land and destroying the forests. In Debrecen, the highest-rated ploughers, nearly 150 hectares, are planned to be permanently removed from agricultural production at a time when food self-determination will already be key to all countries as a result of the climate crisis. In Göd, 25 hectares of forest were cut and 55 hectares of plowing were built. In comparison: say, in the United States, a factory of this size, such as the Tesla factory, is installed in the middle of the desert, not in fields or near cities. But the ground is dangerous, the air is dangerous, the water is dangerous because of it. In 2022, on behalf of the Gödért Association, whose representatives in the box I welcome here, we were able to find out that the dangerous, carcinogenic NMP substance had entered the soil, into the waters, and the government was trying to hide it. The only way to find out and make it public was that the Gödért Association sued this, but the government kept this poisoning secret until the last minute. But we see the same thing in the air. There's been a lot of accidents. On 21 January 2021 the Jászberény battery factory caught fire, and 80 out of 10 city firefighters took it. On 22 January 2021 14 workers were transported to the hospital in SK Battery, also in the South Korean battery factory, on suspicion of poisoning. On 28 May 2021 the Samsung factory in Göd caught fire. It turned out, thanks to the disaster management, that they did not have any permission, that the main switch for fire fighting was not available, but they did not even have permission to use the buildings. I would like to ask the non-presidential party: is that what they call a high-profile national interest? The lack of water, the lack of electricity, the poisoning, the endangerment of the population? The Dialogue has fought so far, it will continue to fight against the battery companies. Finish the destruction of Hungary's future! Thank you. [[Applause.]]
u2023-02-20-4	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. Mr László Toroczkai, Head of the Group of the People's Republic of Hungary, has applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2023-02-20-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First, let us talk about democracy and the anti-democratic attitude. It is rather strange to talk to empty chairs and benches, as no representative of Fidesz is present, and even his satellite party, KDNP, so we talk to empty chairs. We should start by saying that the reason we came together here today is because this investment in the battery plant, which is a huge investment and which is unique in the history of Hungary, and even in Europe, has already been discussed by the government, without even asking the Hungarians who want to build it next to its house in an extremely undemocratic manner, they did not even ask the Debrecens, for whom they want to build a huge environmental investment. This extremely important meeting today, which is very important, could have been very useful if the government had given us answers to our questions, it would have been very helpful if the Fidesz MEPs had worked for their money. I've got a couple of politicians here that I don't want to breathe with, and maybe they do, at the end of the day. [[It's grumpy.]] But I don't care. I knew that they would immediately start to be outraged and yelled, but the thing is that we have to put up with each other somehow, because that is what democracy is like, so the Hungarian people have decided. Our job is to change their position, and I would like these Members not to be here, but I must accept that this is the decision of the Hungarian people. Similarly, the pro-government representatives should accept that we are here, there is an opposition who does not want this huge investment, and I will go on, and I would be able to put in place at least 10 or 15 arguments that would mean that not only the Debrecen battery plant, but also that en bloc should immediately eliminate this idea of a battery plant. Let's take a look at some of these. I started with the fact that the government is quite anti-democratic in its attempt to force this on Hungarians who, from an environmental or environmental point of view, do not care that we, the Greens or the opposition, are right; the value of their property begins to decrease immediately from the fact that they are building the big investment next to their house. They protested not only for nothing in Hungary, and not only is the Hungarian Movement protesting this investment, but it is there, for example, in Texas, for example, there are many protests in the United States surrounding similar investments. It is no coincidence that they primarily imagine battery factories of this size in deserts. But not only do they protest in the United States, not only in the West, and not only do we protest here in Hungary, but even in Belarus in 2019 there were protests, even 40,000 signatures in the case of a similar size Chinese investment, a battery factory, and Lukashenka, otherwise known as dictator, backed up, a year later announced that they would not build the big investment that the Orbán government would want to build next to Debrecen. [[16.20]] Then our second very important argument is that we generally reject this economic policy, which is typical of Fidesz and the Balliberal side, and for thirty years we have seen nothing else: the kind of economic policy that favours the multinationals, the global big ones, the big capital. It can be Chinese or South Korean, it can be American, it can be any investor who wants to build battery factories at the base of suburbs, we will always, in any case, oppose it, whether it comes from the west or from the east. Then it shows the government's attitude that 40 golden crowns in black fields imagine hundreds of acres, if we take the BMW investment and the rest of the ideas, then they may want a thousand hectares there, in that industrial zone in the future, to be withdrawn from agricultural production, while our homeland Movement says that we should be a great power in the food industry, for example, rather than a large power in the battery plant. Then our other very, very important argument is the exchange of people. Fidesz refers to the fact that it does not want to replace the Hungarian population. The 9 thousand already announced jobs in Debrecen are not visible, so they will hire non-Hungarians in the first place, and on the largest business social networking site, LinkedInen, which, by the way, is less used and less known in Hungary, already recruits foreign workers in English-language ads. Well, that's the population exchange, which the investor is not hiding either, because he also announced at the public hearing that they would start with 500 foreigners right away. And then comes the huge pollution, the enormous environmental strain. It is no coincidence that we are opposed to this investment and initiated a local referendum. And then, at the end of it, the Balliberal Congressmen. [[László Varju: Time, time! Interpreting from the lines of Dialogue and MSZP.]] So those who yell at foreign terrorists as much as they yell at foreign terrorists because of Hungarians' albums, they have no business being here in the Parliament! That was my opinion. [[Szabó Timea: Only for the Nazis!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-02-20-6	Thank you, Congressman. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has applied for a speech before the agenda and I ask for a moment's patience. I'm sorry there were two of us up there, but I was the only one in charge of the meeting, and the tech guy came in here because the screen was out of the picture, and so I could see the representatives in the cover. Thank you for your patience. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-02-20-7	Mr President, Dear House, We see empty pro-government benches in the discussion of a strategic issue. Let's think about the consequences any Hungarian worker should face if he doesn't go in, doesn't get tired of working. The thing is, it doesn't have to please the subject, but it's an office, one of the most beautiful in the country, the most beautiful for me, and it's quite amazing that if the government had nothing to hide in this case, but I say that the most useful, convenient thing for him would be for at least some of his State Secretarys to try to answer the questions that he thinks are right within the framework of a professional debate. The thing is, behind this kind of hiding, there are usually dark secrets. We must say that Hungary's economic exposure, the addiction system we were in, has been ill for 32 years. First, in the direction of German car factories, a assembly plant country could be caught in action, and now a double dependence is emerging, as Fidesz-KDNP wants to be a great power for the Far East battery companies. And I would warn my fellow Members not to approach only from environmental impacts and issues. We see that this is the most dramatic topic today, and they think a lot, especially on the left, that this is a way to address most of the young voters. Environmental protection is important to us, too, but let us have a problem with the whole economic philosophy that these governments do with Hungary, if not regardless of color, but one after another! By underestimating the knowledge and diligence of the Hungarian people, they place them on a lower shelf than where they belong, and constantly bring in assembly-type plants with low added value, supported by Hungarian taxpayers' money, instead of which Hungarian talent, Hungarian research and development, the Hungarian digitalisation revolution should be supported and supported. And our problem is precisely that a battery factory is built here, a battery is made and not a motor, it is not what the Hungarian skull could be used for at the highest level. And besides, the Hungarian taxpayers' money will now be given to these companies a sum of 400 billion this year, and the condition that we have to create jobs has ceased to exist, and now there is no such condition. And when Debrecen promises 9,000 new jobs, let us think about it: here, at the ministerial hearing, they said that after the BMW, there are no more active workers in the county, which can be grouped in large numbers, but they do not even see that in Hungarian sack villages, where some of the inactive people, if they wanted to participate in at least one free re-training, would be able to participate, but bring economic immigrants from the third world with mass. A thousand third-world workers are brought in in a lower voice every month, who have not been here before, who, where appropriate, is pushing Hungarians out of the workplace, who are willing to work with lower wage levels and more vulnerable working conditions, thus pushing down the wage level of the Hungarians and thus helping all employees. The data of the Göd plant is more than talkative. Two years ago, out of 3,500 employees, 94 were Hungarians before enlargement. [[Sic!]] Now, when the number of employees is increased to over 6,000, they say that there are still fewer than 300 göds working there compared to 94 göd, and few people from the area, and they say that they are recruiting, but there are simply no more people from the area, and they cannot bring more Hungarian workers in here. Once again: 94 was the göd in the past, and a few hundred more from the surrounding settlements came here, but overall, only half of the workers were Hungarian, and this proportion may be even worse elsewhere. We also see that there are typically 12-hour shifts with a mass of employees with primary education, so it is not certain that the diligence of the Hungarian people, the power of the Hungarian skull, would require us to excel only in this industry. We would have many opportunities in the field of research and development and innovation, and I will say this once again: the digital revolution that we are demanding. Compared to this, these plants, working with very dangerous materials, are built next to an incredibly populated area, and the Hungarian land is threatened; everywhere else, we see that these plants are created in brownfield investments, broken down in the GDR industrial site, with the least possible risks to the environment, not in Hungary. So, if you were far enough away, if the local public wanted this confirmed by a referendum, if they could comply with all the security conditions, there would be a Hungarian landscape where such a factory could be built. But even if all the security conditions are met, we still have a problem of economic philosophy with this, the talent and diligence of the Hungarian people deserves much more, and we also say that we do not want to support battery factories or organised migrant imports with the Hungarian taxpayer's money, because the Hungarian skull deserves much more. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik, MSZP, DK, LMP, Dialogue.]]
u2023-02-20-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Imre Komjathi has applied for a speech from the MSZP Group before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-02-20-9	Thank you for the floor. I am very sorry that there are no pro-government representatives here, because I am going to talk about peace and security, peace of work and the safety of working people. Ladies and gentlemen, In the period since last year's election, I have tried to assess who is employed here, at my new job and why, what is good for, and what is good for one or another. I am familiar with our offer, the offer of the MSZP, from education policy to law enforcement and defence to international affairs, we can provide left-wing answers on a wide range of issues. Honestly, it inspires me. I am inspired by the fact that I can work with people from all over the world. I believe, and I respect, that one of them is an excellent student of health, the other of the economy, and the third of the environment. But what I'm asking you, and I'm seriously asking you, is that when it comes to industry and factory work, you listen to me. The chemical trade union from which I came into politics ensures the security and protection of Hungarian workers in nearly half of the strategic partners of the Hungarian government. They have enough to do, because when the Hungarian government enters into a strategic agreement with a large company, the trial takes place on the top floor, behind closed doors, in comfortable leather chairs. In the meantime, the Hungarian worker is doing his job silently, he is not asked, he is not asked, and they are not interested in how their rights are guaranteed in the strategic partnership agreement. The Hungarian Socialist Party makes a resolution proposal to this House, which brings the employee into strategic partnership negotiations with the State and the employer as a third party. It's a matter of my heart. I'm good at this, so I'm asking you to come with me for three short points in understanding this. [[16.30]] 1. Several of the strategic partners receive serious State aid for their operation or development and then report a mass depopulation. This is simply unacceptable. Think about it. First we give the taxpayers' money to the international corporations so they can fire the taxpayers. More than 10,000 jobs have been lost, and complete factories have been shut down by strategic partners after they've taken our money. Look at Nokia, Tungsram, Microsoft, Jabil, Johnson. Such a company should not be a strategic partner of the government. 2. Stop apologizing to employers from collective agreements! I'm sure many of the government representatives don't know it, but unfortunately, it's standard practice here at home. A contract containing the basic rights and obligations of employees and the company is generally adopted at the end of a long, hard negotiation and covers a great deal of important elements from working time to termination, from advance to severance. Many of the Hungarian government's strategic partners believe that they can choose from them as Schadlné in the bakery. Well, no. If the employer fails to comply with the collective agreement at one point, he cannot expect other points of interest to be complied with. Then the contract will be terminated. And you know what's gonna happen instead? Strike. And it's not the public sector. They can't blackmail you here, they can't control you, the factory's shutting down, and that's it. As I said, I certainly know this world better than my fellow members in the government; I do not know who would go there and restart the factory, who would start the machine, and press the button instead of the ballot box. Finally, 3. Do not prevent or even require the formation of a union with strategic partners. I'm almost ashamed to draw attention to that. It should be expected that the Hungarian employee will receive extra protection from the strategic partners of the Hungarian government, and its trade unions will be treated as a priority. I see that the government wants to tie the country's future to the Hungarian industry. All right, but please, let's listen to each other, argue, and start with the area that is important to the ruling party, with the government's strategic partners. I would like to ask Viktor Orbán specifically and separately for the Hungarian industrial worker to be his strategic partner after the industrialists and the large investors in suits. After all, they sent us here, and it's not a Far East battery factory. Thank you for listening. [[A rare applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2023-02-20-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Momentum Group, Mr Dávid Bedő applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-02-20-11	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be brief. Momentum's position is clear: in Hungary there is no place for water-eating and environmental-destructive battery factories, neither in Debrecen, Göd, Győr, nor anywhere else. We are talking about our future, and our future is not for sale, not for the Chinese, not for water poisoning plants, not for anyone else. The sky is blue, the future is green. That's clear as day. If a party is not green in 2023, the party and its politicians do not understand the future and are not for the leadership of Hungary. But we must tell the truth on this issue: the recovery of the water-poisoning battery plant in Debrecen will not be prevented by a parliamentary debate on which the Fidesz representatives announced in advance that they would not come. What are we trying to do here? What are we doing here, in the walls of this building, ladies and gentlemen? Who do we want to argue with here? You can see he's not with anyone. The pro-government representatives did not bother to come into Parliament to discuss such an important issue at work. But the Momentum doesn't want to argue about that. We know exactly what the truth is, and we do not find this truth here, but 200 kilometers from here in Debrecen, where the Chinese want to build a gigantic water-toxic battery factory without consulting the locals, with state support of HUF 320 billion. But we're not gonna let that happen. We have initiated a local referendum so that the Debrecen can decide if they want such an investment in their city. That makes sense. Unfortunately, such a parliamentary meeting would only be in a functioning democracy, which has not existed in this country for 13 years. We have to force the referendum in Debrecen, because Fidesz, who has lost many ten billion forints a year to consultations, considers the environmental-destructive battery production not such an important issue as to ask the locals about it. And if they refuse, the Momentum will see to it that they are forced to write this referendum. So if you'll excuse me, fellow Members, I'm leaving now, because unfortunately, this meeting doesn't make any sense at all. The election committee in Debrecen, on the other hand, can approve the Momentum issue any minute, and at that moment we will begin our referendum campaign in Civic City. We welcome everyone very, very much to Debrecen. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Gurmai Zita and Tordai Bence applaud. David Bedő is leaving the room.]]
u2023-02-20-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll wait for Congressman to leave. Mr Zoltán Varga was the representative of the DK Group who applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-02-20-13	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Let me start with an eternal classic. But where did Damon Hill go? Where's the cowardly Prime Minister? Where's the cowardly government? Where did the cowardly pro-government representatives go? [[Foreman Novák: Ferenc Gyurcsány?]] Because we're sitting in this country's house, but they're away. But they're not the only ones away. Far away, far from God, Ivancha, Komárom, Nyíregyháza, and far away is Debrecen, where I was born, and where I live to this day. Congressman Bedő probably doesn't know, but I'm from Debrecen. They are far away, because the pro-government representatives have long forgotten who gave them their mandate, who they should represent, and who they really are accountable to. Well, please, I haven't forgotten. I'm Debrecen, and now I'm speaking in their voice, bringing their message, because neither the government nor the Fidesz Members nor even their mayor have listened to them. And when they rightly raised their voices to speak against the battery factory built next to our city, Orbán's hyenas, the Fidesz propaganda, immediately started a killing war against them. Yeah, 200,000 against Debrecen. And now we're talking about not only Debrecen, but the whole country is at war with Orbán's government, the Orbán Battery Lobby. Those who destroy a country, including the best fields of Debrecen and the future of the people who live there. In all this, unfortunately, I have to say that there is no exaggeration, and this is not just the example of the factory in Göd, because these lands will be dried out by a gigantic Chinese battery factory, which can pollute with heavy metals, while the factory, the noise of the truck traffic and, of course, the legitimate fear of industrial accidents can make the lives of the Debrecens a living hell. I ask why the Orbán government excluded the battery plant in Debrecen and Ivanča from the scope of the spatial planning plan. So the Chinese company can build its big factory in hell as soon as possible? Why has the analysis of the terrible water consumption of the battery factory suddenly vanished? Why did László Papp hide from the Debrecens his own mayor, the Viceroy of the Fidesz Debrecen, what kind of factory are they planning to put on the Debrecens' necks? Fellow Members! Now, I'm asking everyone in this room, even if the government representatives aren't here, to be a little debrecen. Imagine having a house in Debrecen or a small town nearby. This house has a life's work and probably a lot of credit. Yeah, that's their life, and that's where they imagine their future. Here they will want to raise their children in peace and security, and then live their lives with honor and probably health, to grow old here. And that's when you're gonna have the no-good, serbile, inhuman fidesz cadets like László Papp, who can't even be called mayor with the greatest grace, and then they're gonna tell you when they pat you on the shoulder that you're living well, man, how beautiful your house is, forget it. Forget it, because we're building a huge Chinese battery factory at the base of your house. Still, will you tell me what Viktor Orbán thinks? ! What does the government think? That after 12 years of destruction, permanent robbery, they could do anything, even in Debrecen? Do they look down on the Debrecen? But I don't have any illusions, honourable MPs, they're not here, but I'm telling them. [[16.40]] The government and the governing parties believe that Hungary and in it Debrecen are the private property of Fidesz and Viktor Orbán, and the people there are jugglers whose names are shut up, and now they want to take advantage of the land and the people as much as possible. That is why the governing parties openly represent the interests of the Orbán battery plant lobby, even here, within the walls of Parliament, even if they are not here. But don't be calm, let them know, because people in Debrecen want to fight the Fidesz Battery Lobby with a referendum over the parties. According to the Democratic Coalition, in this situation, opposition parties must step back so as not to divide the Debrecen along party political break lines. Thus, the referendum can be a tool in the hands of the Debrecen who can defend themselves against the unscrupulous Orbán government. But we mustn't stop here. According to the shadow government, battery plant construction must be stopped immediately throughout the country until all research is published on the impact of these factories on the environment, health, safety and value of Hungarian people. And once we know all this, eventually, with all the information, local people will have to make the decision to build a toxic factory that destroys any future in their environment. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the opposition benches.]]
u2023-02-20-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote. Interventions from the opposition benches: A visible majority! Szabó Timea intervenes.]] The majority of those present are visible, but not from the perspective of the whole parliament. I respectfully announce that Máté Kocsis is fidesz [[Gergely Harvesto: Where is he?]] Mr István Simicskó KDNP faction leaders sent a letter to the President to initiate a repetition of the vote using a ballot counting machine. In accordance with the motion, I now ask the Parliament with respect to vote by using the ballot counting machine to accept the proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. Please vote. [[Vote. Szabó Timea: Sorry, for some reason it doesn't work for me!]] I declare the resolution: Parliament shows indecision by 33 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 1 abstention [[Szabó Timea intervenes. Gergely Arató: Mr President, the head of the group does not work.]] So it's obvious. Dear Parliament, So the Parliament doesn't have a quorum. On the basis of written information from the Fidesz and KDNP factions' heads, as well as announcements of the absence of additional representatives, I do not see the possibility to restore the quorum today, on the basis of which the House Rules of Decision 14. In accordance with paragraph 2 of Section 2 of this Article, I shall establish the list of missing representatives. In the absence of a proposal on the agenda adopted, no items on the agenda may be discussed and no comments after the agenda shall be taken. I respectfully inform you that the next session of the Parliament is expected to take place on 27 February 2023, as usual. Thank you for your presence, the meeting is closed.
