u2023-03-28-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning, fellow Members. I warmly welcome all of you and welcome those who are monitoring our meeting today. The 8th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and Dániel Z. Kárpát will be my fellow Members as notaries to assist me in this meeting. [[It's a short break.]] There has been some difficulty, and I am looking for the first, second and third speakers among those present. Mr Máté Kanász-Nagy applied for a pre-meeting speech from the LMP Group. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-03-28-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, We know that the main government policy is to turn Hungary into a battery ring, which means they want to deliver our country to both Western and Eastern capital both at the same time. This is the policy of creating double dependence, or this is life on the half-periphery. We have talked many times about the effects of this exploitative policy on nature, how they want to sell out Hungarian water resources, Hungary's energy or agricultural land to these typically multinational corporations in the Far East, but we believe from the LMP that it is also worth talking about the exploitation of workers, i.e. that the Fidesz government also provides the Hungarian workforce to these foreign multinationals. Why are we talking about exploitation? Why are we talking about delivery? This is what I was trying to do in relation to the Hungarian workforce. First of all, it is worth checking out where the labour force comes from in these battery factories. We know that, by the way, these multinationals do not typically create new jobs, but they absorb the workforce from already existing jobs and Hungarian businesses to a significant extent, so that, in practice, if they create a job, another Hungarian job will be lost elsewhere. But we also know that if a new workforce is needed, because there is a shortage of labour in Hungary, especially in the area of Debrecen, so the labour force is coming from abroad to these factories, the foreign labour force, also typically from the Far East, is building container cities right now. We also looked at the type of work they do in these factories. The thing is, they do easy-to-teach, simple, low-added work, unfortunately. If someone, say, goes from another company to work in a battery plant, there is a lower step, they will receive much simpler tasks, so it is not a move forward, it is not a move forward, it is a step down, economics also puts it this way, and this low added value work is typical of 87 percent of the entire Hungarian manufacturing industry. Unfortunately, this ratio has been true since 2009; in this respect, multinationals, battery companies have not made any progress or progress. They often give examples of salaries. The fact is that basic wages in battery companies are extremely low. Pays less than the Hungarian average wage can only be achieved with significant overwork, additional work, weekend work, multi-shift work; that is to say, workers are worked to death in these factories, a direct consequence of exploitation. Working conditions are extremely difficult, and these working conditions are not respected by the battery companies. Think about the Battery Factory in Göd, which has already been punished two dozen times. Of course, these are very, very low penalties, one or two million forints, so that they do not accidentally discourage these battery factories from not complying with the rules. If you look at it, workers in these factories are exposed to a very serious health risk because they have to work in the midst of the use of heavy metals and chemicals; this has a very serious health impact. It's quite amazing that there's a battery factory that's also published in the press where you can get a reward or some kind of bonus if you don't get sick. So if you are sick, you are even rewarded for working sick, which is also exploitation. Just as it is an exploitative policy, as humiliating as control, that workers are subject to control in these factories. They are really viewed as replaceable wage slaves. Of course, these factories also do not allow trade unions to start building so that trade unions can work in these factories, even though we know that where trade unions operate, the salaries are much higher. This exploited career is offered by the Fidesz government to employees, tens and hundreds of thousands of employees. We say no to this exploitation, the exploitation and sale of nature and the labour force, and we object to all legal instruments, with protests and referendum initiatives, because we must not allow Hungary to be turned into a battery ring. Thank you so much for listening. [[Bence of Turdai applauds.]]
u2023-03-28-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to the speaker's speech before the agenda will be from Deputy Secretary Zsófia Koncz. Here you go.
u2023-03-28-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to start by saying that the automotive industry, the automotive industry, is one of the most important industries in our country, where many people work, gives a solid livelihood to many families, and what we can see is that the industrial policy goal of some European countries is now to build battery production. EU Commissioner for the European Green Agreement Frans Timmermans has called on the European Union to produce mass electric accumulators in the last month. He said that the best cars are made in Europe, so we cannot be addicted to the past, we must start mass battery production. That's his position. Here, it is worth looking at how our neighbouring countries, other countries of Europe, are thinking about this matter. According to the current arrangements, 14 battery plants will be implemented in Germany. I think it is important to highlight the existing factory unit of the CATL in Türingia, where a green-socialist coalition governs, and it was also a pro-green politician who handed over the environmental permit to the CATL. In Norway, which is particularly important, this industry is seen as a means of combating climate change. The expansion of battery factories in our region is also indicated by the fact that the Czech Republic and Romania are planning to do the same. Recently, it is worth looking at the statement of the president of the Slovak automotive association, who believes it would be fatal if his country missed the opportunity to have its own battery plant. [[9.10]] According to end-of-year data in Poland at the end of 2022, there are already 60 companies directly involved in the production of lithium-ion batteries. In addition, we can talk about factories already in place in other countries on our continent: France, Spain, Italy, Great Britain, the Netherlands and Sweden. International examples also show that there is huge competition for this industry throughout Europe, and even within the world, and it is in Hungary's interest to participate in this competition. But, of course, as the government has already said on several occasions and here in a debate day, I think that we have been able to make these arguments and considerations, the most important thing for us is to comply with the strictest possible environmental rules for all investments in Hungary. In this respect, the Authority will also conduct the highest level of environmental impact assessment for the Debrecen battery plant. In the course of the procedure, not only the environmental authority, but also public health, soil protection, disaster protection, heritage protection, nature conservation also controls the documentation related to the investment. I think that it is important to take these aspects into account, and although Mr President has not raised environmental issues, he has raised conservation issues, but I would also like to highlight two things that have recently gained topicality. One of them took place in my own constituency, so in practice in the days of the complex habitat development project in the Zemplén region, it was possible to manage and develop about 1316 hectares of land: to restore the healthy state of the natural environment hundreds of years ago, to improve the ecosystem of the area, in connection with a large investment supported by the Aggtelek National Park Directorate, the European Regional Development Fund and the Hungarian Government; and here I would like to draw attention to TeSzedd! The action will also be organised for the 11th time, during which the action for pure Hungary can be registered until 11 April. I believe that this action has proved in the past how the Hungarian population, society, can unite in order to ensure that Hungary is clean, and that the action will start on Earth Day 22 April, from 22 April to 28 April. I encourage the LMP fraction to participate in this programme and encourage everyone to do the same. I ask that Congressman support these actions. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-28-4	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Congressman Bence Tordai has applied for a speech before the agenda in the Group on Dialogue. Here you go.
u2023-03-28-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, In his speech before yesterday's agenda, Rebecca Szabó, another co-chair of the Dialogue-Greens, presented why and how the system in which we live is unsustainable, the economic and serviced political system, which means that we will surely hit the wall if we continue to do so. I really just want to give you two summary figures very briefly. Every year we use 1.76 percent of the Earth's annual resources, so we use one and three-quarters of the Earth each year, and we just feel the significance, the nature-forming power of human civilization: 96 percent of the total weight of the mammal species on Earth is man and his pets, so 36 percent of mammal biomass is human, and another 60 percent of domestic animals. This human civilization, this global capitalism, this industrial arrangement is necessarily taking us to constant growth encoded in crisis, collapse, ecological and climate crisis. Just to give you one example of this, by 2100, according to the latest report by the IPCC, if the most predictable scenario occurs, the average temperature of the Earth will be 3.3 to 3.7 degrees Celsius. A previous world forecast, modeling, shows that at plus 4 degrees, probably up to 10 percent of mankind will survive; so, you see, we are approaching the scenario in which 90 percent of mankind will die within a century. I understand that this does not matter much in Viktor Orbán's regime, because the boss himself can expect 10-20-25 years, and that his political foresight is no more than that. [[Noise, uproar in the pro-government ranks.]] We, the green ones, are thinking long-term. I'm gonna be here for 40 or 50 years, my kids are gonna live to be 2100, and my grandkids might be 2150. It would be nice for you to think a little bit with that head, because the regime that you're running here now leads straight to uncontrolled collapse and chaos. We are not living a year of danger, but we are in a lasting, deep ecological crisis, at the very centre of it. And I understand that from a global and historical perspective, the Orbán regime is a bit of a spin, a tiny pussy on the body of the system. [[Defiance, interruptions from the pro-government ranks.]] Which will burst and heal, but we still live here. This is our life, our life here and now, so it doesn't matter which of the two possible ways we choose: the one that doesn't account for the limitations of growth, the one that is constantly chasing, for example, my green colleague Matthew Kanász-Nagy [[Defiance.]] He said that by the relocation of the battery plants, by overspinning fossil energy, it practically brings about a collapse; they choose this path, or a path of a righteous green light guaranteeing everyone a decent quality of life, but at the same time it stands on a sustainable retreat that allows a crisis-resistant society, a future-friendly, future-proof green world, to be built here in Hungary and Europe, which has a chance to adapt to changing circumstances. In 2024, next year, we will have two choices again, and while we do not decide on the exercise of power at national level, at least as important a question is the fact that, locally, in the municipalities, in local authorities, and in Europe, the European Union's main decision-making forum, where more and more important questions decide what representation we give Hungarians. We in the Dialogue-Greens believe that the more, the stronger green representation there is at all decision-making levels, the better, and that is why we urge the green forces to cooperate here in Parliament, also at national level. Let's put together parties, civilians, citizens, and even you turn your brains and move to the green road on this unsustainable, orange, chaotic policy that leads to nothing. But perhaps even more important, that Europe, which can be the flag bearer of positive global change, should be defined in the next EP cycle by green thinking, and that also local authorities providing living conditions should think about sustainability and crisis-resistant, future-friendly policy. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2023-03-28-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'm glad to see you're changing your profession, starting futurology. [[Defiance.]] Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, Deputy Minister, replied to his statement before the agenda. [[9.20]]
u2023-03-28-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me, Congressman, to refer to the Hungarians, not as mammals, as you have done with a new term, but as humans. On the other hand, I would like to ask you a rhetorical question: if you think that this government or the governing parties are a blow in Hungarian politics, then what does a party that is usually around 1 percent of its support, and has not once taken the liberty of running independently? If the two-thirds mandate of the ruling parties means squash, then the Dialogue or I can't follow what it's called because it's constantly being changed what? They'll answer it occasionally. Regarding the issue of environmental protection: we consider it important, as is the question of climate protection. That is why Hungary recorded among the first legal commitment to become a climate neutral country by 2050. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that since 2000, gross domestic product has grown in Hungary while reducing our CO2 emissions. This means that since 2010, the Hungarian economy has been able to produce a unit of GDP with 27 percent lower greenhouse gas emissions. So, industrial performance has increased, but output per unit has decreased. And if we look at the EU ranking because you referred to the European Union, then we can see that in 2020 CO2 emissions per capita were the ninth best value among EU Member States in our country. If you look at renewables, there's a lot of penetration there, too. In 2021, the amount of energy produced by solar power plants increased by 54 per cent compared to the previous year. And if I look at the beginning of the steering, this jump is even bigger. We had an argument a few weeks ago, and you had no idea the share of solar energy at the beginning of the government. The point is that the production of solar energy in Hungary is now around 11 percent, and keeps making records. It was not the left-wing government, but the right-wing government, at the time of which the share of solar energy in electricity production increased enormously; this is also the EU leader. But that is not all in the field of environmental protection, because we are eliminating illegal landfills, making it possible to redeem plastic bottles and metal boxes. We have to protect our rivers, there's a lot to do here. We support the renewable energy production of SMEs with HUF 32 billion, plant wood after each newborn, and by 2030 we want the country's forest-covered area to increase to 27 percent. Then we could also talk about how much support the municipalities will receive to enable e-powered buses to enter the market, while contributing to the purchase of at least 7,500 electric cars. I could continue the list for a long time, but I won't, because you are very well aware of that. You held a convention this weekend, I don't know, that's the right word for what you've arranged, given its size, and, if we understand correctly, you've decided that the Dialogue for Hungary will be Dialogue-Greens. I must say that this decision is twofold sincere. On the one hand, because they have already left their names, that they have already left the name, "For Hungary" and "For Hungary." That's true, because we've been feeling for years that you're not working for this country. On the other hand, the name "Greens" is also an honest step, not because they would pursue such a consistent environmental policy, but rather because the dollar is green, which is where you receive your support. So, it would have been more accurate, it would have been really accurate to change your name if you had chosen to be a dialogue, a party of greenbacks. [[Defiance on the pro-government side.]] That's how their politics would have been completely covered with what they're called. I would like to tell you that as long as they base their policies on dollars, they will hardly move from 1%. There have always been these complete images in this country, who have received requests, expectations, instructions from abroad, but they have never actually had the majority of society; they have never been, and will never be. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-28-8	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister, Secretary of State. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, Vice-President of the Parliament, has applied for a speech before the agenda from the Group of our countries. Here you go, Madam Vice President. You have the floor.
u2023-03-28-9	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The child abuse case in Aszod continues, but now the district has become an accomplice. The district replied that the principal had listened to classmates and witnesses, but had not been informed of further abuse. That's just not true! I have made public the recording on which the director himself tells us that during the conversation with the children, he did learn that it was not only a boy who was being abused in the class, but practically everyone in the class, this condition has been going on for months, and I have also presented written evidence of this, because the director wrote it in a letter. After that, the district should not write the opposite, that no one is aware of any further abuse, so there is nothing to see here, and with a warning the school will get away with it. It is also a lie in the reply of the school district, which was also described, and with a bold letter, that the investigation did not show that the institution could not guarantee students the right to a safe school environment. He describes this school district where a seventh-grader's nose was broken. Several classmates told the principal that they had been repeatedly abused for months. I had new parents who told me their own story about how they had to take their straight-A student to another school because they spit because they were abused, and in this case, the mother is very sick. But neither the director nor the school district was able to deal with his complaint properly. And that, in 2005, which was not now, a fact-finding article was published in the press, in which it was written that the entire faculty is also in fear, because the then director, who is still an educator of this school, is also afraid of his own colleagues. In this fact-finding article, it was also stated that teachers themselves do not dare to talk about specific cases without a name. I also received a lot of letters from students who wrote that it wasn't the first time, but it was the only one that was made public. They've been through the same things, they've seen this going on at school, but they haven't done anything for them either. A four-graduate educator resigned from the institution because he was morally unable to assist in what was going on in this institution. This, however, was immediately accepted by the district without any investigation or personal audition. Well, we're so good at four-graduate educators, let them go, we'll fire them that day. You don't have to listen to them. What could a teacher say to a school district in a child abuse case who made such a serious decision that he quit his job for moral reasons? He doesn't even listen to the school district. It's outrageous! As I mentioned in my speech the other day, this case is just the tip of the iceberg, both at this school and across the country. Many people have told their story, many people have written it from Orosháza to Sopron, Budapest VIII. I received letters from the district of Nyírcsahally, but also from Szeged and from small villages in Somogy County. And do you know what they all have in common? In each case, the victim had to move away because he wasn't being investigated, and this case wasn't investigated, and the district and the director would rather dismiss these cases so that they wouldn't have to deal with it. We have been operating such a system in Hungary for 30 years! This school is also full of school psychologists, there is no school guardian, and this is happening all over the country, and it is unfair that we cannot enforce the right to a secure school environment because some people believe that they can terrorize their classmates. There is such a degree of incompetence that there is respect for the exception in how these matters should be dealt with, that it is astounding. Teachers are not able to manage these cases. If you really are serious about child protection, which is so much said, then you should also stand by the truth in these matters, stand by the victims and eliminate the state that has been going on in the education system for 30 years. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]] [[9.30]]
u2023-03-28-10	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The reply to the statement by the Vice-President before the agenda will be given by Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2023-03-28-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, The protection of children for the government is an issue in which no compromise can be made, neither from the domestic or from abroad, nor pressure can be placed on us to which this main objective, the protection of children, is to be released or pushed into the background. Obviously, the child of all parents is the most important when he lets him go to school, when he lets him go to any occupation or class, when he goes anywhere, in any community, we have to guarantee the protection of children and the safety of children. This is also important in schools, which is why we introduced the institution of school guards from 1 September 2020. There are already 571 schools of school guards. We can remember that both at the time of the introduction, police states from the left, and after that, the government was constantly attacked, and still today the left politicians are attacking the institution or often the person of the school guards. Compared to this, 385 school schools in the district, 167 vocational training institutions, 11 church and 4 other institutions in which the school guards are required to go and help maintain the order in the school. Because there really are cases, and that's why we introduced the schoolguards' institution, because it cannot be denied that there are cases that are so aggressive, whether verbally or physically, when teachers can no longer act. Teachers don't have the skills to do this because they didn't go on a teaching field to deal with such situations, but they need a school warden who has special training and special permissions, special permissions, to prevent conflict with physical force, or fights or beatings. Well, in this case, he intervenes in every institution where a school guard is requested, where they can intervene; where they do not ask for a school guard, they cannot intervene, but it is not the fault of the school guards. It is also important to prevent these situations, which is why we have increased the number of school psychologists. When we started our governance, there were fewer than a thousand school psychologists in Hungary, 998; now there are doubles, 1922 school psychologists, precisely so that in these situations, when the situation in a school gets worse, school psychologists can give preventive help. So in recent years, we have sought to ensure that school psychologists and school guardians, both in prevention, prevention of these situations and in stopping specific situations, are able to help eliminate the conflict or prevent it. As regards the individual cases that you have spoken about, honourable Member, one student has been immediately given a warning measure following complaints, two other students have been subject to disciplinary action, and the school has also made use of the possibility to signal to child protection, making use of almost all the tools provided by the legislation. From now on, of course, there was an opportunity to be heard, and a penalty was imposed on 6 March, which was immediately implemented. Indeed, there was a case where the complainant did not wait for the disciplinary procedure to be closed, but carried his child to another school during the disciplinary procedure before the decision was taken. Obviously, the school is also bound by the law, a disciplinary action cannot be conducted in half an hour, an hour or a very short time, but it is necessary for days or weeks to be heard by everyone; it is also necessary to listen to who then does not use the opportunity to be heard and does not go there. This procedure has to go through in a few days, a few weeks, and then you can see the measures have been taken. Of course, there were cases where these happened more slowly than they should have been, where the school district manager was reminded that there was a need for a faster procedure, because the safety and protection of children must always be ensured, but at the same time the procedure must be carried out thoroughly to ensure that it has a result that is appropriate for real events. What we have to say is that it is in our common interest and our common interest that there must be order and security in all schools, that children really feel safe and that the conditions for learning should be met. In these cases, in particular, the complaints led to disciplinary proceedings and in many cases even ended with the transfer of students and could not remain in the community where they had previously caused tension. Obviously, we must protect the interests of those who go to school, who want to get an education at school, and those who want to take action against it, and those who want to change their attitude, who are interfering with the learning of others, must also be helped to change their attitude. I propose that this be used not to create tension, but also to provide real help. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-28-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr János Bencze has applied for a speech before the agenda from the Jobbik Group. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-03-28-13	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear fellow Members, There is a current issue that overrides all active policies. It is in the common interest of Hungary and the Hungarian farming community to resolve this, this is the problems caused by so-called Ukrainian cereal imports. This has turned into a huge problem, and the latest, worst news has come that from the European Union, as you say, we are not going to get the money from Brussels that provides the compensation fund to help Hungarian farmers, and Hungarian farmers would like to know the reason why we are not getting an orphan penny from this framework. I've decided that it's worth looking behind things and a little bit of explaining what happened here and what's happening in the country. The most important document is the Agricultural Chamber document: In 2021 it was indicated that Ukrainian grain imports were going to be a problem, and it had already been suggested somewhere that Ukrainian cereals were not in conformity with European standards in any way, partly because of the use of chemicals that were banned in the European Union, and thus the Ukrainian farmers and multi-company companies would be given a competitive advantage. And since there was no solution and no money for farmers, we looked around to see what had happened. In July 2022 it was István Nagy, our agricultural minister, who negotiated grain imports in Ukraine, so it was not Brussels again, they were again, so to speak, members of the Hungarian government, and soon upon him, State Secretary Levente Magyar, in Ungvár, declared directly on 18 July that: "This work could lead to Hungary becoming one of the most important corridors of Ukrainian grain to the world. And they've repeatedly announced on TV that we're gonna be the top fighters for this. Well, we're his top fighters, so I'm going to report that the Hungarian economy has been completely crushed, and, in fact, many small farmers are not being pushed to the brink of bankruptcy here. What have we tried to do with civilized, professional speeches? On 5 November, I indicated in writing that there were problems that I didn't come up with, Hungarian farmers told me, and I understand that they also indicated to your politicians, but they didn't speak. I got an answer that basically everything's fine, there's no such problem. On the 6th of March, I announced that there was a huge problem, and besides propaganda, we received blue inscriptions to solve the problem. And with figures on what has happened, to realize that this is indeed a huge problem, and we should definitely help and improve this: it has increased several times, ten times, the amount of Ukrainian grain crossing the EU border, from 287 thousand tonnes to 2 million 870 thousand tonnes, and this figure is only rising constantly, so we are talking about huge quantities. And here you have to look at the proportion of the border sections to see what happened. Poland has a common border with Ukraine of over 500 kilometres, Romania has more than 500 kilometres, for Slovaks under 100, for us a little over 100, and yet what is happening is that this short 100 km border section has been crossed by one third of this cereal or grain crop, so this is a problem. And that we have looked at things again, so you, the respected government and members of the government and the whole of Fidesz, were proud to have increased this transfer capacity. It is safe to say that you have made a huge mistake, allowing the financial circles who are the oligarchs of NER to take advantage of it as much as possible. I would ask you to correct this now, to solve it, because interestingly, the Poles have found a solution. And it is fair that we also offer solutions: release the data of all Ukrainian grain importing companies, this should be a public database! You guys are extra pros. You guys really like to fight this. Take out these companies, which deliver Ukrainian grain, extra profit tax, and with this money compensate Hungarian farmers! What you have promised is to be carried out in reality, because this will be proved: a rigorous and detailed inspection of the grain entering Ukraine at the border, not to come in. Anyone who wants to bring it over in Hungary and do not be smart enough to get that grain off the train or off the truck, like the Poles, come over with sealed freight trains and go where they need to go. [[9.40]] And I have a specific question, and I would like an answer to that, and not political propaganda: if the Hungarian economy decides to raise its voice against Ukrainian grain imports either in Kossuth Square or in Brussels, would you support them? Would the Hungarian government stand by them and at least help them express their feelings to show what a problem there is? It was in 2004 against the policy of the then government. Well, now the Hungarian farmers are in a similar situation again, as they say, and they expect substantial help. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2023-03-28-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to Mr President's speech before the agenda will be from Mr Sándor Farkas, Deputy Minister of State. Here you go.
u2023-03-28-15	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman! The question raised by you, I tell you honestly, doesn't surprise me, we even see it every day, and now we have been dealing with this issue for many months, perhaps years, because it is true that the Hungarian economy is in a very serious disadvantage, I would say, that it has to pay losses because of the Ukrainian crisis, and this is not a coincidence. In the last about a year and a half, after the outbreak of the war, these grain shipments were previously agreed to travel through the Black Sea to the African countries, where the goal is indeed to help hunger and hunger to be lifted, this has worked in the past years too, and we know that these ships' shipments, these cargoes could only be partly launched on Turkish initiative and on the basis of serious diplomatic work, but these grain shipments could not be made there in large part because of the military conflict. Therefore, after consultation with the Ukrainian minister and the Ukrainian economic negotiations, the transpossessions have indeed been confirmed with the aim of having a standard gauge in Hungary with a wide gauge, if you can put it that way, there is a need for a transcoding of railway trains. We thought, and all reasonable people thought that these grain shipments, if they could no longer make it to the African countries by boat, would then be able to get to Europe on railway trains and move from Italy or South France to Africa. The situation has indeed happened: some of these shipments have remained here, not only in Hungary, but also in the Eastern European countries, and in the Western European countries, in a significant part and did not go any further, so these grain shipments have not only Hungarian, but now, as I say, Eastern European, former socialist countries, as you mentioned, remained in Polish, Czech, Slovak, Hungarian, Romanian, Bulgarian, but have practically blown up the situation of the cereals market in Europe as a whole. And in that, we, I might say, are in an unfortunate situation of having the biggest railroad crossing. At the same time, let us be honest with you that not only are these grain shipments coming by rail, but these are also coming in trucks. If you're on Routes 7 and 8, even though I rarely walk, you can find a lot of trucks that carry grain. In Hungary, traders thought that these cereals were used to try the unrealistic prices that had been created before, so let's be honest, when we talk about a corn price of 14-16-18 thousand forints or 14 thousand forints of wheat, I was a farmer for almost forty-some years, which is even unrealisticly high compared to the price of increased inputs. Many farmers thought that when the price came up, they bought for 11-12 thousand forints because they did, I didn't want to hurt the farmers at all, and when the price was higher, they would put it on the market; there was a lot of manipulation, but this didn't happen. At the same time, it is natural that a large proportion of farmers did not want to sell their grain for 11-12 thousand forints, but then at rising prices. This did not happen, as this commodity dumping flooded Europe and thus Hungary. But to answer your question in particular, although that is what I think it was: therefore, the Government of Hungary is doing everything in its power to start a series of negotiations with the Commissioner for Agriculture of the European Union, the Polish Commissioner, again, a cooperation that Minister István Nagy started, but unfortunately only the Polish party got some support from it. This was mentioned again at last week's European summit, and with another round we want Hungarian farmers to benefit from this possible compensation support in the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-28-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. From the MSZP Group, Mr Zsolt Molnár applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-03-28-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Unfortunately, we need to talk about a new topic, as Gyula Horn is being attacked in a cyclical manner, and the third freely elected Prime Minister of the third Hungarian Republic is being attacked in a vicious manner, and a campaign has been launched against him in a coordinated manner. I strongly call on the Hungarian government to step out of this fight, leave this fight for the radicals who have found their opponent again in Gyula Horn after the mandatory or potential vaccinations. Unfortunately, it's cyclical, because every two or four years, the statesman who may have done the most for Chancellor Kohl for German unification will be put on the table again. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Forget it! Oh, come on.]] and thus the creation of a new European unity. We are talking about the person who, in the shadow of Soviet troops, cut through the Iron Curtain with the Austrian Foreign Minister, Vice Chancellor Mock, and after the pan-European picnic, announced the opening of the border in the shadow of Soviet troops, The Seven, on 11 September. This statesman is being attacked either by you or by a high priest acting on your behalf, or by a government office or anyone's wonder. It is amazing that, following the two-thirds victory of 94, they are attacking the example of restraint, the Gyula Horn, who introduced a new political style in Hungary. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: He was at the volley!]] who in 1998 held a future debate with the current Prime Minister of Hungary at the stage of Együgázság. As prime minister in office, he was not afraid to stand up for this debate, even if the subsequent elections were won by you, and that was how the first Orbán government could be formed. [[Forebod Novak: Talk about the past of the pussy. The president's ringing the bell.]] This political attack and brutal intervention in the internal affairs of Budapest is pathetic, when, for the second time, as in two mid-term games, the high priest and the government office attack that democratic decision [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Pufakka...]] , which was brought by the capital in connection with the Horn Gyula Promenade. Yeah, we're expecting that yell. I would like to draw attention to the fact that there may undoubtedly be doubts about the involvement in 56 [[Nacsa Lőrinc: There are quite a few! Defiance. The president's ringing the bell.]] However, just as Winston Churchill is not judged on the basis of his possible role in drowning the Irish uprising, but on the basis of a complex career, let us add that Gyula Horn has had many decades of political careers, and judging his activities on the basis of one point would be just as wrong as calling Churchill a butcher of the Irish. [[President Novak: He was an agent! The president's ringing again.]] Therefore, I would like to ask, in the strongest possible terms, that this policy be put to an end, and that the Hungarian government and everyone who acts on behalf of the Hungarian government should be allowed restraint in this area. There was also a positive example of this, since Gyula Horn's funeral was also a demonstration stand. We need to look at the number of participants, and who else attended this funeral, I think we should look at this question on this basis. I would like to ask you most specifically if, perhaps, Mr Secretary of State, you will be able to answer that question, so that there is some restraint on this basis, and that this question can still be straightened out. Let us leave this fight to those to whom it belongs. And on behalf of the government, I would ask that you spare the Hungarian Socialist Party's level of support based on questionable polls, especially the dollar-left, because based on the dollar-left, only the real left didn't get a single dollar, green-bellied, but not even a cent from the real left. [[The Poor Ones! Let's collect for them. The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] [[9.50]] So what I would ask with respect is that the substantive answer is to find out what is the cause of the unworthy and brutal attack on Gyula Horn, and I would ask that there is a chance of replying to the fact that the government office will end this, and that it will accept a democratic decision. And as I began, I close it with my hands away from Gyula Horn, the statesman who set an example for Europe and Hungary in democracy, and has done much to bring Europe back together after the Iron Curtain! Don't introduce a new iron curtain, a spiritual iron curtain, don't bring back the times when it was censored when various administrative decision preparations were made on political order! Thank you for your attention. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: As Gyula Horn... applause from the benches of MSZP.]]
u2023-03-28-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. The reply to the statement by Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, before the agenda, is given. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
u2023-03-28-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I try to take into account your request not to talk about where the MSZP is supported. I wasn't planning on talking about it, but the press is gonna do it, so he's gonna tell you that they're about 1 percent. For my part, I do not want to restrict the press in this; they will. Besides, it is a matter of public interest to know how the individual parties stand, and then the electorate will decide in the elections. [[Dr. Zsolt Molnár: Leave it to the voters.]] I wasn't planning on talking about that either. But if you have already said that if you wish to complain that you have not received enough dollars, do not do so with us, but somewhere with your allies, because if it is up to us, then only one party should not receive a dollar in Hungary, not only because this is a clear intervention in the elections, but also because these dollars have been incorporated into left-wing politics ever since. We talked about this yesterday. I cannot say one party, not one percent or 10 percent, which could withdraw itself from the pro-war position, or which would not have supported sanctions decisions that would otherwise bring the entire European economy to its knees from a competitive point of view. As to the question you raised: we are in a sensitive situation because it is a deceased person, and I think that the perception of such ages or prime ministers is more a matter for historians. But if you have already raised the question, Gyula Horn's political activity is quite controversial. [[Dr. István Apáti: To put it mildly...]] where I probably get criticism of the use of the controversial word, because it does not express the anger that many people in this country may feel. [[The First of Novak: That's right!]] Because he generously withheld that fact, he only hinted little about the role that Gyula Horn played in the 1956 retribution. And if you're trying to sweep this under the rug, or bludgeon it, or say that it's not so important, then I have to say that, to this day, you have a conflicted relationship with violence. To date, they have not been able to complete the period of the Republic of the Council in political terms, 1956 and 2006. So if the man who shot at his own people in 2006 is still the leader of the left, his own citizens, they still haven't settled this relationship. And if you're campaigning at the National Assembly to get more credit for Gyula Horn, then that proves it, too. Let me ask you one thing: ask those Hungarian citizens who have been persecuted, threatened, humiliated, or whose family members have been killed or tortured during decades of communism, and if they have received their opinion, please come back here again and let us talk about how Gyula Horn deserved a statue or street. Well, as far as left-wing governance is concerned, between 94 and 98, you said that a great merit of this government was abstinence. Abstinence! That was the time when a significant part of the Hungarian industry was thrown away to foreign owners, and the consequences of it are felt not for a few years, but to this day. They sold it, sold the energy sector for tobacco, dumped the banking sector. [[Nacsa Lárinc: Gyurcsány...]] There was a time when foreign retail chains started coming in. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] which is why Hungarian small entrepreneurs are still at a competitive disadvantage. [[Peter Cseresnyés: That's right!]] They destroyed the Hungarian market. And if it hadn't been, so I say: that robbery privatisation, then we wouldn't have kept it here, it would have been much bigger before the Hungarian economy could have moved much faster. So from the type of abstinence that almost brought the country to its knees, well, from that type of abstinence, thank you, we don't ask. We will give respect to the deceased, but if you bring it up, we will also give our opinion on the political ways of life. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]]
u2023-03-28-20	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear House, Fellow Members! From the Momentum Group, Mr Lajos Löcsei applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-03-28-21	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Do you know what Lajos Kossuth said in March 1849 when he was in Eger? I quote: "Here you can't advertise, here you can only learn patriotism. You were right, and today Eger will show you again. Today, the city of Eger once again sets an example of patriotism, struggle, unwavering endurance. Egerians have been working hard and hard every day for a month to fight out, fight out the right, the right to self-determination. The Eger people want it themselves, and they're gonna decide their fate, their city. Right now, activists are out on the streets collecting signatures to put out a referendum so that they, the Egerians, can decide where to go, the city's life, the escape route that determines air quality for many decades. That's how you do it, go Eger, go referendum! And why is this fight? Because, while the vast majority of the Egerians clearly want the outer escape route, the people of power clearly and clearly want to force the worse, louder, more polluting inner trail on the Eger, on the city. That's why an exemplary collaboration has emerged in Eger. Egri civilians and parties have worked together for the referendum in the last four weeks, above all political differences, just for the sake of the common local cause. Of course, there are always exceptions, unfortunately, even now. The Eger representative of Fidesz, Gábor Presses and DK's Eger organization have not crossed a straw to bring about the referendum, but we have also worked for them. The hundreds of hours we spent with the voters in Eger served two important experiences. One is that the Egerians know exactly what city they want to live in, what city they want for their children. Yeah, they want to live in a quiet, clean air, green, liveable town. Another lesson is that although some political players have tried to take the wind out of the sails of the referendum initiative, the Eger's opinion is uniform, clear and clear: they want to decide; they do not give in to their rights; they do not give in to the will of others, because, yes, the opponents have also moved, who by deception, who by manipulation, who have attempted physical violence. Two weeks ago, an aggressive man attacked our bar and attacked one of our activists. Others tried to lead the Egers over the phone; they tried to derail the referendum initiative in an organized, premeditated manner. These crooks used to call the Egers on the phone. They asked for their views on the bypass and concluded the discussion by saying that since they had already made an opinion on the telephone, there is no need to sign the referendum initiative. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Shame, this political action is a disgrace! After the physical attack, then the phone frauds Gábor Pressek followed the line. One and a half weeks ago, in the middle of the referendum initiative, Mr Pépík came up with another set of tracks. We've been arguing about the trails for ten months, but he just remembered another trail. Based on the timing, it is quite clear that with this step, he intended to confuse the Egerians by dissuading them from signing the referendum initiative. But Eger is holding on, because I have good news, ladies and gentlemen: according to my information this morning, he is at an arm's length to gather the right amount of recommendations. [[10.00]] But we can't stop until the last minute, we can't sit back, we only have two days to collect the missing few hundred signatures. So I'm asking the Eger people from here: whoever hasn't done it, sign it, show the whole country that Eger won't let anyone else decide for him. And I would like to ask Mr Gábor Pupils if you would be here and the Hungarian Government to finally take into account the opinion and will of the Egerians. Thank you for your attention. Let's go, referendum! Go, Eger! [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2023-03-28-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The reply to the statement before the agenda will be given by Deputy Minister Nándor Csepreghy, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2023-03-28-23	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for the opportunity to speak on behalf of the Minister for Construction and Transport this morning on the Eger bypass. What you said earlier is how we do the first hour of the policy course very nicely, polishing political and historical platitudes, without taking into account the realities and the facts, you gave a lively speech. Unfortunately, the result of this has not yet been achieved, but if you practice many more times, you may succeed. However, allow me to talk about the facts, as it is not beside the fact that in Hungary most motorways, most motorways and most road renovations were implemented under the government of Viktor Orbán. This was the case between 1998 and 2002, and this is the case after 2010, because it was the government that promised the Egerians that it would connect it to a motorway system. By handing over M25 Road, this happened almost three years ago. There is now a debate in the city of Eger about what trail to connect the four-track road from the south and the 25-way leaving the city from the north, in view of the fact that we are talking about a road that causes significant environmental pressures and noise pollution, both in terms of transit traffic and in terms of traffic within the city. So the government is committed to carrying out this investment. [[Lajos Levočei intervenes.]] If something can be blamed or told about Gábor Pupils, it may be thanks to him, because without the humble work of Mr Gábor Pupils, an investment of nearly 70-90 billion in such an economic environment, which is partly due to your comrades in Brussels, could not be realized. Today, however, the government is committed to achieving this path. [[Lajos Levočei intervenes.]] However, it really doesn't matter what trail this road takes, and of course the government takes into account the opinion of the Egerians. However, here is perhaps the most interesting difference between the political activity of the Momentum and the fourth government of Viktor Orbán, which is obvious in the fact that you know only one thing: to organise political actions. On the other hand, what we can do is build a road, a road that really has the joint and several opinions and support of the people in the city and the people in the area. Allow me, Congressman, after the speech, to present you with the invitation to the public forum organised by the Ministry of Construction and Transport in Eger this afternoon and at 6 p.m. [[Louis of Levočei: We'll be there!]] [[Louis of Levočei: We'll be there!]] Bálint Nagy State Secretary for Transport and Deputy State Secretary for Road Construction József Pántya. (Lajos Levočei: We'll be there!) The main aim of this forum is to present all four trail plans to the Eger residents since 2019. I guarantee to Congressman that whatever the outcome, success, inefficiencies and inefficiencies of the referendum, the Hungarian Government will implement the line plan that coincides with the will of the locals, because in this investment it will do nothing but decide nothing over the heads of the locals in any other public investment. So, as with all other public investments, we are building and developing through the hearing of the opinion of the local people, and so will Eger. So I would like to ask you, as a responsible Member of Parliament, to help us not in the mood but in the conduct of this communication, this dialogue. If you have already quoted Lajos Kossuth, then you can truly become worthy of one of the largest Hungarians as a representative of the Hungarian Parliament if you contribute to the construction of the country rather than to the atmosphere. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-03-28-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Mr Zoltán Komáromi applied for a speech from the DK Group before the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-03-28-25	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We have talked many times about the deplorable conditions in health care, but you have not just begun the destruction in health care. In 12, 11 years ago, hospitals were taken from the municipalities. Then they promised that it would be better for everyone, modern equipment, short waiting time, higher salaries. This, of course, did not work out so well that hospitals not only do not work better, but the standards are deteriorating from month to month, the institutions have become more and more tragic despite any restructuring. Health care is maintained not by dilettious government measures, but by the victim-made work of healthcare workers working in it. Now it looks like you haven't had enough, and you're already after the clinics, after you didn't manage to get all the health care facilities in 2012, you're trying to make up for it. Recently, the mayors received a letter from the national hospital director, indicating that they would nationalise the clinics as well. Since then, not surprisingly to me, a number of municipalities have unanimously said no to this plan, with the votes of the Fidesz MEPs, knowing that it is the same fate for the specialists as the hospitals that have been nationalized: further withdrawal of funds, debt and the more serious problems associated with it, the transfer of professionals, and eventually termination may threaten them. Doctors are overloaded, health workers work day and night for a minimum salary, and as a result, it's no wonder that more and more people are leaving the field. As a result, waiting lists, patient lists, the remaining workers will be even more burdened, and so on, the vicious circle will continue until the system is completely collapsed. It is only due to the local and district authorities that the specialist clinics are still operating. That's enough with the 15th. to think of a district where 500 million forints a year or the XVIII. district, where they support their own clinic with HUF 270 million a year. They take care of the renovation, develop, buy ultrasound, mammography and CT equipment, as these tests will have to wait months elsewhere in the state system, and often complement the salaries of specialists and specialists to keep enough specialists. Local governments are taking a huge burden off public health, which is what you want to put an end to, risking the collapse of outpatient care. While in 700 GPs, 935 thousand people, including 200,000 children living mainly in the countryside, were unable to find a GP. In addition, the einstanded institutions will lose all their autonomy; there is a fear that the county hospital with a shortage of specialists will be transferred from these clinics, which will increase the patient lists even further. From a patient's point of view, this means that they have to wait or travel more, in any case it is more difficult for them to obtain an examination or intervention, and for workers to be re-routed, even though they may not have chosen outpatient care by accident. This could lead to further mass terminations, further increasing the already extremely serious problems. This is done in a situation where hospital departments usually close each week due to a shortage of specialists, and it is only possible to give birth in county seats, and it is necessary to wait years for surgery because of extremely long waiting lists. Hospital debt is as high as HUF 33 billion after two months, as it was in the third quarter of previous years. It's enough to enter a state facility to see the terrible conditions. You think it's okay for patients to be afraid to go to the hospital because they're afraid of infections, afraid they can't be cured. As the shadow minister of the shadow government, I'd like to ask you to leave the health care in peace, if you can't improve it, at least don't destroy what you have. Don't you realize that with your dilettious measures, you're pushing hospitals deeper and deeper into trouble? How long do we have to put up with this? You're playing with the lives of patients every decision you make. Today, the shadow government is Hungary's only hope that all patients can heal under decent conditions. Thank you for your attention. [[Zsolt Gréczy applauds.]] [[10.10]]
u2023-03-28-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. In response to Mr President's speech before the agenda, the answer will be given by Deputy Minister, Bence Rétvári, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2023-03-28-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Minister of Shadows, Dear House, If we look at how much your shadow government, when it was still in power, spent on Hungarian health care, we see that it was somewhere around HUF 1100 billion, and now we are somewhere around HUF 2800 billion, so it is much higher, more than two and a half times or about two and a half times what we are spending on health care than you are. You were thinking about when you were on the government, the members of the shadow government were ruling in Hungary, how to legalise the gratuity money, how to introduce a visitation fee and hospital daily allowance. The latter was not only philosophical, but also passed a law about it, and you also enthusiastically supported it, and the gratuity money was not able to eliminate the gratuity money system. On the other hand, this government carried out a medical wage increase on a scale that allowed us to get the gratuity money out of the health system after 70 years. If there was something that caused an unpleasant episode in health care for everyone, it was precisely the giving and receiving of gratuity money. It was bad on the part of the patient, on the part of his relatives, it was bad on the part of the doctor, on the part of the nurse, and it was bad on the part of the whole health care system that you maintained, and, as I said, far and wide, in the '50s and '60s, the general practice of it started because it distorted the health care system. The aim was not to heal the patient, but to motivate many people with gratitude money, which is why it has destroyed health care not only for years, not just for decades, but for generations. The time has now come when we have been able to achieve a medical wage increase on a scale that you believe is devastating, of course, the gratuity money system has been destroyed, but we have been trying to improve the health system, which has been on a noticeable scale. How much did you give a beginner doctor, Mr. Shadow Minister, how much did you pay a beginner doctor as a basic wage? 129,500 forints. [[László Vigh: Jesus Christ!]] Now, how much does a beginner doctor make in the era of destruction instead of 129,500? 687 837 forints. How much gross basic wage did you give to a doctor who worked 20 years ago, Mr. Shadow Minister? 165 785 forints. [[László Vigh: Oh, my God!]] How much are you making now? 1 491 679 forints. [[Dr. Zoltán Komáromi: And the sisters? The president's ringing the bell.]] How much money did a doctor who worked 41 years ago bring home during the shadow government period, how much was his gross salary? 262 345 HUF. How much do you get now? 2 380 057 forints. Is this destruction for you, honourable Member? ! [[Zsolt Gréczy: Compared to the Antall government. Dr. Zoltán Komáromi intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] After all, if it's a destruction, if you're talking about destruction, can we go to the children's hospital in Swabhegy together? No, because you locked him up. Can we take a look at the state of the hospital, say, at the National Psychiatric and Neurological Institute? No, because you locked him up. [[Dr. Zoltán Komáromi: It was inappropriate. Intercoms from DK's ranks.]] Can we see Szabolcs Street Hospital? Oh, no, you closed it. You were talking about births, and how important it is to have more births. Well, what was the peak institution of Hungarian obstetrics? Where did they take the kids? I have an acquaintance, too, who was given birth in a hospital, but in the meantime, because it was very complicated, he was transferred to Schöpf-Merei Hospital, and so the child's life was saved. And what did you lock up? Schöpf-Mere Hospital [[Intercoms from DK's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] the place from Budapest and its surroundings, who had a critical health condition, went to give birth to a child. And now you can go there? No. Why? Because you locked him up. And you're talking about destruction? ! [[Dr. Zoltán Komáromi: It was not a top institution!]] Honourable Member, I cannot figure it out in my head right now, but if we put the 16,000 beds on top of each other, which you have removed, how high a tower would be, it would probably be the tallest building in Budapest. And what did you say about your plans for the campaign, if it's a destruction? Imre László, the mayor you just praised, said how well you are in health care, how much energy you spend on health care. And what did he say? That 45 percent of hospitals have to be shut down. And how did you react to that? The more you said about it, the more you bid on each other, and you talk about it, honourable Member? ! What have you done to health workers? Because he said he needed more medical staff, less doctors in Hungary every day, something like that. You have laid off 6,000 health workers, and under our administration, you have become a doctor with 4,000 more operating licenses, because you are no longer going abroad, but working in Hungary. There are 4,000 more doctors in Hungary, while you have dismissed 6,000 doctors and nurses in bulk. You have not even kept a record of the waiting list, honourable Member. On the other hand, not only did we increase the basic funding, but because of the increase in overhead costs, because there is an energy crisis all over the world, we provided an additional HUF 55 billion at the end of 2022, and HUF 11.2 billion at the end of 2022 to compensate for gas and energy prices, so that the Hungarian hospitals can continue to supply patients during the energy crisis. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-28-28	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Member László Szászfalvi of the KDNP Group has applied for a speech before the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-03-28-29	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Since the outbreak of the war, Europe has been struggling with all its terrible negative effects for over a year. Finally, it should be recognised that the Brussels strategy, according to which Russia will be brought to its knees by sanctions, has failed badly. All the negative effects that the elite in Brussels intended for Russia have occurred in Europe. Europe is simply punishing itself. In the spring of 2022, President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen promised in every forum that sanctions would destroy the Russian economy, make the Russian war machine impossible, and thus bring the end of the war. It wasn't like that, and it's the exact opposite. They also promised that sanctions would not be extended to energy, but they did. The Russian economy has not been destroyed, but is more adapted to the new situation. However, as a result of a year's sanctions, Europe's economy is already creaking, and sanctions will continue to have unfathomable, harmful consequences over the coming decades. The elite in Brussels still clings to his delusions, and he does not realize that what has not been achieved in a year should not be pushed at all costs. Instead, we need a review of sanctions in Brussels, a ceasefire and peace talks as soon as possible. Brussels, if you want to go to war, you should be fighting a war against inflation, not thinking about new sanctions. However, they have no intention of protecting the interests of Europeans to protect Europe's economy, as in difficult times, the crisis management of the Hungarian left was to take away from families and businesses instead of supporting them, and to put more and more burden on them. Dear Parliament, The aim of the Hungarian government is to protect families, pensioners, the economy and jobs and to preserve Hungary's security in these dangerous times. The government is therefore constantly taking measures to protect Hungarian families and Hungarian businesses. Sanctions inflation will not cease until Brussels has reviewed them, but until then they can be mitigated by prudent government measures. Dear House, The sanctions took HUF 4000 billion out of the Hungarians' pocket in 2022. The economy must be intervened in times of crisis, so the government has taken twenty measures to achieve our goals, of which ten are protecting jobs and businesses and ten are protecting families and pensioners. In order to protect jobs and businesses, the Széchenyi Card Programme, the Factory Savings and Factory Savings Guarantee and Credit Scheme and a agricredit repayment moratorium have been announced. Energy intensive enterprises will be supported. The government also spends 230 billion forints to support the energy efficiency of large companies. The interest rate stop was also extended to loans from small and medium-sized enterprises. A new national capital holding system has also been established. [[10.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, It is not enough, therefore, to look passively, to get through bad times, but to act actively, to alleviate trouble and to protect our fundamental national interests, the economy and jobs. This is what the Hungarian government does step by step with new measures. Unlike left-wing governments and politicians, we, like the Government of Hungary, believe in this direct assistance and support, and in this we support the government's work and efforts. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-03-28-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. In response to the speaker's speech before the agenda, we will hear the answer from Mr Tamás Menczer, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2023-03-28-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, First of all, I have to apologize for my voice, and last night, in addition to the Bulgarians, it's been hard on my voice, but you're happy to take it and you're happy to take it. Turning to what the Member said most about protecting jobs, I fully agree with you, of course, that the government's understanding is that if there is work, everything is, if there is work, there is regular income, there is a predictable vision and there is self-esteem. Before I arrived at the sanctions and the current situation, allow so many reflections that before 2010, there was only one crisis, and of course there was a crisis during the world economic crisis during left-wing governance, but there was no Covid, there was no economic crisis with Covid, there was no war, no economic crisis with war and no energy crisis. It was a crisis, and with this one crisis during the crisis and before that, the good left-wing colleagues destroyed and bankrupted the country. We have just heard that the pre-2010 period was a period of construction, if I understood the speech of the Gyurcsány pro-Gyurcsány MEP correctly, but the truth is that this was a period of total destruction, at least a strange construction when the country was bankrupt. One of the signs of bankruptcy in 2010 was that unemployment was 11-12 percent, so one of the most important tasks of the Orbán government, as you mentioned, was to create jobs. We did this work, and as a result of this work, cooperation, cooperation between the government and the Hungarian people, we managed to bring unemployment from 11 to 12 percent in the period before Covid to well below 4 percent, and it could be said that whoever wanted could work in Hungary. That's when the Covid came, and then the war broke out. However, the Hungarian government's perception and policy has not changed during the crises: we have said that we do not want to finance unemployment, regardless of whether our good left-wing colleagues have constantly submitted proposals in this regard, we do not want to finance unemployment, but we want to finance and support job preservation. This is how we did under the coronal virus, and this is how we are now doing during the war and the stupid, inefficient, even harmful, sanctions policy in Brussels. This is also the result, because jobs have been preserved, where new ones have been created if they have not been managed somewhere. So it can be said if we look at the figures, that despite the crises, there are still a million more people working in Hungary than in 2010. If you'll allow me, although you're not necessarily attached to the workplaces, let me bring you some more numbers. This is closely linked to jobs, because I would like to say about real wages, that even in the difficult period last year, real wages have increased by 2.6 percent, and compared to 2010 real wages have increased by more than 70 percent without benefits in Hungary, and this 70 percent increase comes with family tax breaks, we have given pensions back, and economic growth is above the European average. So there are many numbers to talk about, but I would like to turn to the sanctioning question that you mentioned, because indeed, the sanctions policy makes the situation extremely worse and very harmful. It had two basic goals, as you have brought it here: that the war would end and that Russia would be economically ruined. We didn't get any of them. From the war we see more serious scenes than ever before, and in relation to the Russian economic results, let me say that last year, 2022, Russia's revenue in the energy sector increased by 28 percent, which represents an increase of $36 billion. So it is absolutely true and well-founded that the Russians have been paid the price of war in advance with stupid sanctions. Moreover, we are faced with an energy crisis, huge energy prices, inflation and penalty inflation. The fact that the left is constantly supporting sanctions is not surprising in that they are acting again against the Hungarian interest. Let me get you some quotes. Car Cake Olivio said the Russian gas should be shut down. Anna Donáth, the new comet, as I saw it, Klára Dobrev's partner and younger edition said that the sanctions imposed were working. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] And they could crush the Russian economy. We can see from the figures that this is not true, and Klára Dobrev herself said that the sanctions so far are not sufficient. The left again acts against the Hungarian interest, it would destroy Hungary, it would have destroyed Hungary energyally and economically. The government will never let this happen, we will always stand up for the Hungarian interest. Thank you for listening. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-03-28-32	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! From the Fidesz Group, Mrs Csöbör Katalin applied for a speech before the agenda. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Is Katalin Csöbör the younger edition of Mátrai Márta? Tamás Menczer: Politically speaking!]] Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2023-03-28-33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Many times and in many places have referred to the national interest. National interest is a broad, vague and context-dependent concept, but it is not worth explaining. In our case, the national interest means the Hungarian interest. Of course, we can see that many people have a special understanding of national interests. Some people make war on this, or they start exporting democracy, others consider the rights of illegal immigrants to be superior to the interests of their own citizens, even of domestic minorities. And that's actually self-destruction. Many refer to the Allied systems. Yes, Hungary may have an interest in membership of the EU and NATO, but it does not mean that everything that is in the interests of the Union or NATO is also in the interests of Hungary. We can be successful members of the Union and good allies of NATO while arguing with our partners in our national interests. Moreover, Hungary's interests cross the border. That's what makes our interests national. The peculiarity of our foreign policy is that we must also pay attention to the Hungarians in our neighbourhood, and we have a constitutional obligation to protect them and help them. It is in our national interest that all Hungarians, across borders and across borders, receive the same care, all the assistance from their country. With the Hungarian eye, the foreign policy formula is quite simple: we do not interfere with other people's business, we do not classify other people's things, but we expect others to stay out of our business. If you want to understand why we are doing what we are doing, we will explain patiently but firmly: under all circumstances we must do what is in the interest of the Hungarian nation, which is more than we can read from the maps; because for others this landscape is just a map. Since 2010, we have been constantly trying to strengthen the foundations of our nation, introducing a unique family support system in the world, building our communities and settlements, protecting our faith. I have been representing the people of Miskolc and its surroundings here in Parliament for 13 years. During this time, our region began to develop noticeable and visible. The Miskolc-Kassa motorway, the Y Bridge in Martinkertváros, public institutions, kindergartens, schools were built and renewed, and last week we handed over new playgrounds in Felsőzsolca, where the bicycle route connecting the village with Miskolc was built with government support or support. It is also clear from these that despite the economic crisis caused by war and faulty sanctions in Brussels, we have not given up on our efforts. [[10.30]] We continue to use all means to help Hungarian families, businesses and develop our settlements. But I also see that even in this difficult economic environment, there are opposition-led municipalities campaigning against the national interest for a western sanctions policy that makes the lives of Hungarian families and businesses difficult. They do so by giving their other hand for government support. The corona virus pandemic, the war, the economic and energy crisis have also shown our differences in thinking. For example, the opposition-led municipality of Miskolc saw the way out of flights, rent increases and the closure of the city's tourist attraction with only one revenue. On the other hand, the government did not react with austerity to economic difficulties, but we tried to find innovative solutions that would bring Hungary out of the crisis in victory. This requires stable government, personal freedom, parliamentary sovereignty and national self-determination. This is how we can enforce our national interests, and Hungarian interests are our first priority. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-28-34	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The reply to the Member's statement before the agenda will be given by Deputy Minister János Fónagy, Secretary of State. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-03-28-35	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If anyone, the people of North Hungary, the Borsodi, the Miskolcs, the Ozdians or the Suhakists are well aware that national self-determination is not only in our constitutional rights, not only in the operation of the Hungarian Parliament, not only in the military independence of our country, but also in the existence of our national industry, in the employment potential of the Hungarian workforce and the Hungarian people. There's no national self-determination as strange as it sounds, but it doesn't have concrete steel, cement, lime or any other material. If anyone, then the region you represent has experienced what it is when political forces give up everything that a nation has created in 100-150-200 years, say, national industry, what it is when they sell mines, what it is when they give up financial institutions, what it is when they sell power plants, what it is when Hungary is practically a national industry without a national energy base. We basically changed this first in 98 and then in 2010. In fact, since 2010, under the circumstances well-known by those present, the first year of the pandemic and then the war, we have achieved basically economic results that have been unprecedented in previous decades. On my part, I consider employment to be the most important of these jobs, because if anyone, the congresswoman, knows precisely that the Hungarian people, even under Covid, or even in the danger of war, are essentially afraid of unemployment in their opinions and deep down in their souls. You know, this country, where there's work, there's everything. The Hungarian wants to get up in the morning and go to work if there is a place. She's been out since 1910. Unemployment was around 12 percent in 2010. In recent months, it's been 3.7 percent. I believe that these are the most important indicators in our region, if you will, for North Hungary, Miskolc. It's the sad past and the results of the last 10 years. But what is to be added and attached to what you have said in the future? Our goal is to increase both employment and industrial performance. This requires new investments, new developments, and about half a million new workers are needed for new developments. All of our surveys, all of our direct experiences and future projected numbers show that the development of the future takes place in the Debrecen-Nyíregyháza-Miskolc triangle, as there is the reserve of the Hungarian labour force that we have the basic opportunity to exploit through its oriented training and integration into the labour market. Here is the labour reserve that can and should be calculated in principle. In this and here I say not only my own convictions, but also the numbers of researchers in and around Miskolc are basically the biggest opportunities and the number of future opportunities. For this reason, both the training of the people living here and the movement of the country's internal mobility in this direction do not aim to support this, not from the east to the west, but, say, from the south to the north, with separate programmes specifically related to this. We are convinced that with this effort, we can overcome all the war crises and all the problems ahead of us. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-28-36	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. [[Dr. Balázs Fürjes and the present State Secretarys will step into the center of the room and Dr. Balázs Fürjes will take a photo with his phone.]] Thank you very much. Thank you very much to the leaver and all the best for the following. Dear House, A general debate on the draft law on the publication of an amendment to the Customs Convention of 14 November 1975 for the international carriage of goods by TIR pass will follow. The government referral is T/3271. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Finance, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2023-03-28-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, The Customs Convention of 14 November 1975 relating to the international carriage of goods by TIR pass applies in practice in Hungary from 1978. The TIR Convention allows goods subject to tariff and tax suspensions to cross the border as quickly as possible. Road transport is thus undisturbed as the customs authorities intervene at a minimum. The TIR system facilitates the development of international trade by reducing delays in traffic by reducing the traditional barriers to international movement of goods. The most recent amendment to the TIR Convention aims at modernising and clarifying the TIR Convention in a technical way. However, in order to fully apply the changes, it is necessary to follow the requirement of Hungary's Fundamental Law, which states that it will become part of the Hungarian legal system by declaring an international treaty in law. [[10.40]] The adoption of these changes requires the vote of my fellow Members, as the international treaty within the remit and competence of Parliament, such as the TIR Convention, must be published by law. Dear House, On 1 June 2021, one of the measures referred to in point (a) of the first subparagraph of paragraph 1 of this Article was introduced. Article 49 of Annex I, which allows the Contracting Parties to the TIR Convention to introduce on a voluntary basis greater facilitations in the application of the provisions of the Convention. The facilitations contribute to the continued attractiveness of the TIR system for economic operators. On 4 February 2022, Articles 38 and IX were amended in substance. Annex II and technical clarifications have also been made. On the basis of the content changes, guaranteeing associations shall immediately forward to the TIR Executive Board all data of persons authorised to use the TIR procedure and the list of customs offices approved for the implementation of TIR operations shall be published through the electronic application supervised by the executing body, the so-called international TIR databank. The technical amendments clarify the application of the route provided for in the customs union and update the rules on safeguards. The content changes contribute to the wider digitalisation of the TIR procedure, while technical amendments help to implement the provisions in practice. On 25 June 2022, the TIR Convention amended Annexes I and VI thereto. Annex II and Article 18 thereof. These amendments will double the maximum number of landfills and dump sites per TIR operation and, in this context, the specimen of TIR passports will also be changed. These changes have been justified by the needs that have arisen in practice and are therefore expected to be applied in a simpler manner. Hungary is an active contracting party to the international convention on which the bill is based. The amendments in question contribute to the wider electronicisation of the TIR system and make the system work easier. This will speed up transport, bring significant relief to businesses and increase the country's competitiveness. That is why I ask you to support and accept the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-28-38	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear House, Fellow Members! Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Richárd Hörcsik. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-03-28-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. Dear fellow Members, As we have heard from Congressman Tállai, Secretary of State, we are discussing a very important bill today, and I believe that it is not necessary to justify this for a long time, since those who have travelled by car or bus on the main road or highway must have noticed one of the small signs on various trucks, the TIR sign. I am just reminding my fellow Members that in the 1980s there was a highly popular television series called TIR. At that time, we were having trouble getting abroad, and we saw that the truck or the car that was wearing this sign was free to travel abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, The TIR inscription is now a self-evident element of trucks, like a license plate. However, most of us know very little about this convention and, in particular, what it is all about, and most importantly, what tangible consequences this now almost 48-year-old convention has been adopted in Geneva. Ladies and gentlemen, The Convention, as amended by the bill before us, was concluded when the interoperability of borders between EU countries was not as favourable as is currently the case. It was therefore an important question to reduce the time needed for customs procedures and to speed up administration. Since then, nearly four decades have passed, and the world has accelerated around us, and we have set everything on an electronic road. At the same time, global value chains have been created, and just in time transport has also spread in the spirit of efficiency, so there has been and there is double pressure on the legislators. It is no coincidence that the bill before us places great emphasis on the digitisation of TIR passports and on the various online databases. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the amendments before us will fulfil their expectations, especially because economic growth, as Mr State Secretary mentioned, is closely linked to the performance of the transport sector. I could also say that this amendment is a guarantee of our prosperity. Therefore, on behalf of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association, I would like to ask you to support the adoption of this. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-28-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Ms Zita Gurmai. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2023-03-28-41	Thank you very much. Dear House, International freight transport is an important and current issue for our country and the European Union as a whole. It is important because a price increase has not been seen for 30 years since the change of regime has resulted in an increase in costs in the transport business. This is important not only for the supply chain, but also because, if you look at road transport for example, you can see that it splits around 5% of GDP and 3.3 percent of domestic employees work in this area. Almost all of the price increases were passed on to customers, who in Hungary could easily pass them on to end-of-chain consumers, the Hungarian population. This is particularly critical in Hungary, where inflation is skyrocketing because of the government's failed economic policy and is a record in the European Union. It can also be seen that the increase in domestic transport costs and their pass-on rates are also higher in our country than in the average of the Union. It is therefore extremely important for the Hungarian Parliament to do everything in its power to mitigate the negative effects of the government in the most part. This proposal is partly appropriate as it reduces the administrative burden. The Customs Convention, drawn up under the auspices of the Economic Commission for Europe of the United Nations, was subsequently amended by the TIR Convention, which entered into force for Hungary three times, on 1 June 2021, on 4 February 2022 and on 25 June 2022. These amendments promote the modernisation of the TIR Convention, in line with the adoption of the legal framework for the future international e-TIR system. In order to strengthen the competitiveness of the TIR system, the amendments will allow for greater facilitation, increasing the number of sites and introducing technical clarifications. The amendments provide greater facilitation for duly authorised persons to apply the provisions of the TIR Convention in accordance with international law. Such facilitations may only be authorised, in addition to the use of technologies to ensure the proper conduct of the TIR procedure, by the existence of clear instructions to persons entitled to carry out specific tasks normally entrusted to the customs authorities under the TIR Convention and by using a system of records enabling customs authorities to carry out customs controls and to supervise the procedure. The possibility of granting greater facilitations contributes to maintaining the attractiveness of the system for economic operators. The amendment entered into force on 1 June 2021. Article 38, the related interpretation provisions and Article IX The future digitisation of the TIR card and the reliability of TIR data will be simplified by amending Annex III. [[10.50]] A reliable online database of customs offices with access to the TIR system is also established. The guaranteeing associations will be obliged to forward to TIRExB without delay all data of persons authorised to use the TIR procedure, and the list of customs offices approved for the implementation of TIR operations shall be published through the electronic application supervised by TIRExB, known as the ITDB. The mandatory use of the ITDB will contribute to the wider digitalisation of the TIR procedure, in line with EU customs policy, by facilitating the real-time sharing of electronic data between contracting parties, associations and international organisations. In addition to these substantive amendments, technical clarifications will be made, the technical amendments will clarify the application of the routes provided for in the customs union and update the maximum guarantee as a "Door"/Alkohol å TIR card, which can be demanded from the service association. The amendments entered into force on 4 February 2022. Annexes 1 and 6 to the TIR Convention, as well as Article 18 thereof, are amended to double the maximum number of loading and loading sites per TIR operation, in which the model form of TIR passports, versions 1 and 2, are updated. These changes have been justified by the needs that have arisen in practice and are therefore expected to be applied in a simple manner. The amendment entered into force on 25 June 2022. The amendments need to be published by law in accordance with the provisions of Act L of 2005 on the procedure for international contracts. The purpose of the submission is to publish in Hungary the following amendments to the TIR Convention. On the basis of what has been said above, it can be seen that this is a good step towards solving certain problems related to international freight transport, but it is not enough, and I can only trust that the government will take decisive action as soon as possible against the price increase that is getting out of hand. Thank you for listening.
u2023-03-28-42	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-03-28-43	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, On 14 November 1975, in Geneva, Hungary will apply the Customs Convention for the International Carriage of Goods by TIR Certificate from 1978. The number of TIR cards issued by the Hungarian guaranteeing association in 2020 is around 4 thousand, with which Hungary is an international partner in the middle field. The TIR Convention allows goods which are subject to suspension of customs duties and duties to cross national borders during transport by road for at least one stage, subject to minimum intervention by the customs authorities. The TIR system facilitates the development of international trade by reducing the traditional barriers to international trade by reducing the delay in traffic, so that the TIR Convention is one of the most successful and effective legal instruments in the area of international freight and transit. Hungary, the Hungarian carriers and thus the Hungarian consumers are also beneficiaries of this. In the age of digital technology, similar to other customs and transit procedures, there is therefore a need for electronicisation in the TIR system. The Contracting Parties to the TIR Convention established in 2003 the so-called eTIR project, which aims to digitise and electronicise activities related to the use of the TIR card, which includes the replacement of existing paper certificates with electronic cards. The launch of the project was followed by lengthy and wide-ranging international consultations, resulting in amendments to the TIR Convention drawn up by the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe. Accordingly, the latest amendment of the TIR Convention, which was also announced in Hungary, was made in 2021 to replace paper TIR passports with electronic documents and to switch to electronic procedures. The current bill contains further necessary amendments to the TIR Convention for even wider electronicisation. A new interpretation provision has also been introduced to allow the Contracting Parties to the TIR Convention to introduce greater facilitations for the application of the provisions of the Convention on a voluntary basis. In addition, the increase in the maximum number of landfills and landfills, in line with practical needs, justified the modification of the TIR model. The current amendments contribute to the wider electronicisation of the TIR system, to a simpler operation of the system and to a more trouble-free operation of the law enforcement system, and to an active use by farmers. I think that the Covid epidemic, the pandemic, has shown how important the smoothness of supply chains is, how vulnerable supply chains can be if something comes up. We think it is important that we also use the new electronic, digital solutions, we use the transporters, we use the economy and we use it, of course, for consumers, so the KDNP fraction will support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-28-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I now ask Mr András Tállai, Deputy Minister of State, that he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[On the mark of András Tállai:]] He doesn't want to. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the bill on cybersecurity certification and cybersecurity supervision until closure. Government referral T/3314. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, I give the floor to Deputy Minister Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Deputy Minister. You have the floor.
u2023-03-28-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, It is worth clarifying why this draft is needed in the debate on all legislative proposals. I could simply put it all down by saying that it is an EU obligation and that we need to transpose an EU law into the Hungarian legal order, but there is more to it than that. I will not say another thing by saying that digitalisation plays an increasingly strong role in the economy, and Hungary is no exception, and if digital services play an increasingly important role, we need to take more and more into account cyber security aspects. Companies providing safe services to the economy and the Hungarian people need secure digital services for this purpose. But what phenomena do we have to deal with? Digital devices and products are often vulnerable from a cybersecurity point of view or lack sufficient information about their level of security. That means vulnerability. It is also an important circumstance that the Hungarian software industry, digital device manufacturers and digital service providers are often unable to obtain certificates accepted on the international market, which can be a competitive disadvantage. The fact that cyber security aspects are particularly justified in a war situation is also irrelevant. On this basis, the main objective of the bill is to establish a single cybersecurity certification framework. A preliminary survey showed that only less than a third of Hungarian infocommunication companies used a cybersecurity certificate to qualify their own products. This is because so far there has been a lack of a uniform certification system and a high cost of certification procedures. Uniform and binding certification would increase the safety and quality of these services and improve international competitiveness. According to the preliminary survey, I would like to emphasise this in particular, 80 percent of the businesses concerned will accept a single cyber security certification system if this is to be launched. The bill gives priority to the Supervisory Authority for Regulatory Activities, which will be the designated national cybersecurity certification authority. In this capacity, this institution may establish cybersecurity requirements, verify that these requirements are met and facilitate the use of products that meet safety criteria on the market. [[11.00]] The Authority will also be responsible for monitoring how European cybersecurity systems are developed; it should monitor standardisation processes and assess national cybersecurity certification schemes. (The President's seat is Dóra Dúró, Vice-President of the Parliament.) The aim of the national cybersecurity framework is to increase the performance of the domestic infocommunication sector. We also consider it important for citizens to take into account the level of cybersecurity of each product when selecting products and to decide on their purchase. In addition to the above, the bill sets out cybersecurity requirements in some key sectors, including telecommunications, energy, transport, chemical industry or the production of medical instruments. This step improves the resilience of domestic companies to attacks. The regulation, as I mentioned above, is primarily justified by harmonisation, but the experience of recent years has shown that companies are increasingly threatened with cybersecurity: the number of online frauds, data fishing and the spread of extortion viruses are also causing quantifiable losses to unprepared companies, even hindering their operation in extreme cases. Therefore, the adoption of the law would be justified even without harmonisation obligations. The draft takes into account, of course, that compliance with the requirements would result in unjustified additional costs for some businesses, which is why the regulation does not apply to micro and small enterprises, except for a small exception. Dear House, Based on what has been said, we believe that the bill serves the interests of domestic companies and the Hungarian economy, which is why it is worth supporting the representative ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-28-46	Welcome, fellow Members. The keynote speeches will take place at this stage of the debate. First from the Fidesz Group is Mr Gyula Szeberényi. I give you the floor, please.
u2023-03-28-47	Madam President, Dear Parliament, It is the legislator's duty at all times to respond to real processes, if they endanger some social interest, to intervene with your instruments. The bill before this House deals with cyber security. The rapid digital transformation of society and the development of digital tools also lead to an increase in cybersecurity threats, which may, on the one hand, hinder the pursuit of economic activities, cause financial losses and undermine the trust of users, thereby causing significant damage to economic and social life. The draft law on cybersecurity certification and cybersecurity supervision covers two main issues: establishing a domestic framework for cybersecurity certification, ensuring the enforcement of Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2019/1881 and setting out cybersecurity requirements and introducing an authority oversight system for operators in major sectors of economic life. The national cybersecurity certification framework shall ensure that for types and types of information communication products and services increasingly used as a result of digitalisation transformation, the certification authority establishes cybersecurity requirements, requirements according to a fixed methodology, evaluates, examines, and facilitates the use of cybersecurity products on the market. Cybersecurity requirements shall be met by the manufacturer of the product or by the service provider. Compliance with the requirements shall be examined by accredited conformity assessment bodies registered by the certification authority and approved by them. The bill empowers the President of the Supervisory Authority for Regulated Activities and, in the case of the military industry, the Government to establish a regulation setting out the so-called certification schemes, frameworks, expectations, requirements and marketing methodologies for each category of product. According to the bill, SZTFH is responsible for monitoring the development of European cybersecurity certification systems in relation to the development of national cybersecurity certification systems, monitoring related standardisation processes and evaluating existing national cybersecurity certification systems. It is also the task of the SZTFH to gather information on sectors and areas of expertise that are not covered by a European cybersecurity certification scheme and where greater cyber security is needed. A single certification system, which also complies with EU rules, is designed by the bill to enhance the performance and competitiveness of the domestic infocommunications sector. Making certificates mandatory increases the quality and reliability of the products and services concerned, making Hungarian-produced products more competitive and competitive at international level, allowing them to open up new markets. The bill before this House III. Chapter III of the EEA Agreement sets out cybersecurity requirements for companies and organisations that meet essential needs for society and the economy, such as energy, transport, health, including pharmaceuticals, drinking water providers and other public utility providers. It also covers important companies operating in the following sectors: postal and courier services, waste management, chemical industry, food production, manufacturing of medical devices, manufacturing of computer equipment, manufacturing of heavy machinery, automotive, online marketplaces, online search engines. The bill introduces the requirement for cybersecurity risk analysis, the obligation to classify electronic information systems as security and implement security controls for each class. In general, the proposal will help to increase the security of digital tools and services. This is because manufacturers and developers often do not apply appropriate cybersecurity requirements when manufacturing or placing digital products or services on the market, there is a lack of product support procedures, which may lead to a failure to adequately address vulnerabilities and vulnerabilities. It is also important to provide consumers with adequate information on the security functions of the purchased assets. The proposal concerns service providers that carry out activities that are important and essential for the country's economy and provide digital services. For this range of providers, it is necessary to establish a basic set of rules to ensure that companies carry out an assessment of the risks posed by cyber threats from time to time, take appropriate measures to address risks, recognise security incidents and effectively eliminate and manage them. The regulation ensures that domestic certification requirements are laid down for infocommunications products and services not covered by the European Union certification scheme. The proposal is in line with the directive on measures to ensure a uniform high level of cyber security throughout the European Union and facilitates the development of national digital sovereignty and enforcement of cyber security as a competitive advantage on the market. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill just submitted further strengthens Hungary's cyber security, helps users of digital devices, economic operators, and is in line with EU directives and objectives. For all these reasons, I ask for the support of the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-28-48	The next speaker is Zsolt Gréczy, the lead speaker of the DK Group. I give you the floor, please.
u2023-03-28-49	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear House, There is now an extremely important topic on the agenda of the Parliament, as cyber security also means the security of our everyday existence, and precise and effective regulation of this is extremely important in our daily lives as well. Therefore, I would like to draw attention to aspects that have not been taken much on the subject so far. For example, the expression that dominates cybertheme today is like the appearance of cyber warfare; many hybrid versions of it, among other things, have already appeared in the Russian-Ukrainian war, which Russia, in fact, has started. [[11.10]] This kind of political influence on this issue is extremely important, as we have seen, for example, how Russia intervened in the process of parliamentary elections in Ukraine, France, Germany and even in the United States. In addition, cyber-weapons have appeared, becoming everyday tools. Software is displayed on the market that specifically engages in data fishing and tries to abuse data from individuals and companies. A lot of people get a text message to their phone that they have an expired subscription or that they should extend a card, while they know exactly that this didn't happen, and there are people who, if they don't keep up to date with their daily affairs, they can walk into this trap. It is very important that European legislation is also most effective in Hungarian legislation, but on behalf of the Democratic Coalition, I would like to draw attention to some of the problems. One is that there is actually very little to know about the operation of the SZTFH in the listed areas. Although this organization has been operating for almost a year and a half, there is very little information about what they are actually doing, say, to prevent money laundering or terrorism. Another area of concern is to ensure the effective functioning of the bailiffs and the winding-up system, since the Völner-Schadl case is a real veterinary horse: you can see exactly how a very important legal institution has been damaged and how this scandal has undermined the confidence that should in principle surround this institutional system. There are also very important organisational regulations in this system. It would be good to know how this system will actually work, and this bill does not regulate them precisely. The Democratic Coalition therefore believes that this is an extremely important piece of legislation, but that further clarification and adjustments are needed precisely to make the safety of people even more effective. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2023-03-28-50	The next speaker is the lead speaker of the KDNP Group, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go.
u2023-03-28-51	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! We are looking at an extremely fast digital transformation, and the development of digital devices has also led to a large expansion of cybersecurity threats in recent years. If we think about ourselves and our relatives' online activities, we can see that users pay for their free content without being noticed, with their data, which can pose an increasing number of cybersecurity risks. In the case of digital products and services, manufacturers and developers often do not apply appropriate cybersecurity requirements and certificates. There is a lack of product support procedures, which could lead to a failure to adequately address vulnerabilities and vulnerabilities. The bill before us will help to secure the growth of digital tools and services. This bill concerns, in particular, providers of services that are important and essential for the country's economy and provide digital services. In the case of these service providers, we find it necessary to establish a basic set of rules that guarantee that companies regularly carry out an assessment of the risks posed by cyber threats from time to time and take appropriate measures, recognise security incidents, effectively eliminate, manage and take preventive action. I think that this type of certification system is in the primary interest and national interest of all Hungarians in companies that are priority to the national economy, as it is in a war situation and in the 21st century. In the 20th century, when hybrid warfare is taking place, we see that cyber security, data protection, the protection of our national strategic sectors are of paramount importance. This bill is also in line with the EU directive on measures to ensure a uniform high level of cyber security throughout the EU and, as we have heard, this bill has also been discussed in society. This is a very important area. We can all remember that this is not the first bill that we are discussing and adopting here in Parliament on the subject of digital security, and that I should also refer to Zsolt Gréczy, this certainly is not the last bill that we will discuss in our Parliament on the subject of digital security, because it is a priority, growing and changing subject, on which I think that legislation must also keep pace with the challenges and achievements of the age. The current bill, according to our assessment, brings us further towards high-level cyber security, protects our national security, protects our national economy, protects our national interests, and therefore the KDNP fraction will support the bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-03-28-52	The lead speaker of the MSZP Group, Ms Zita Gurmai, is next. Here you go.
u2023-03-28-53	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Dear House, Cyber security has received a lot of attention in recent years, and rightly so. In the definition of the European Union, cybersecurity includes the activities necessary to protect network and information systems, users of such systems and other persons affected by cyber threats. It is therefore clear that we are talking about the protection of both individuals and systems. Several types of cyber threats are considered by the European Union. In this context, it is particularly important to highlight two, one of which is the threat posed by malware, which aims to cause damage to a device, disrupts its operation or provides unauthorized access to it. The other is disinformation, i.e. misinformation, a deliberate attack that consists in creating false and misleading information to manipulate the public. We know these categories well in Hungary; it is not because the state would be extremely capable of defending itself against them, but because the government itself and its attached organs are one of the sources of cyber threats. Having examined exactly what the turn of the concept of malware to provide unauthorized access to a device means, it can be seen that this virtually fully covers Pegasus spy software, the software purchased by the Hungarian government in public money, and sometimes used completely illegally against Hungarian people, with the authorisation for the application of the program being issued by the State Secretary, Pál Völner, who has been accused of corruption crimes since then in court proceedings. This is an extremely serious and fundamentally threatening violation of people's lives, as the government has demonstrated that anyone can look into their lives at any time and find out what they want there. He could have expected all Hungarian rights to investigate why the government was curious about the bedroom secrets of the Hungarians, but not investigated. They did exactly the opposite, and constantly, on a systemic basis, at all levels of authority and Parliament, prevented a reassuring investigation of the matter. Even the Members of the European Parliament were not willing to meet on this issue, saying that the EU Parliament had no competence to do so. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: There really isn't!]] Dear House, The bill before us proves that, however, the European Parliament would have had competence in this matter, since the proposal itself defines cyber threats as a concept defined in an EU regulation in which the Union's Parliament was co-legislator. So Judit Varga is either unaware of the functioning of the European Union, which would explain a lot, or he lied quite simply, and there is nothing new about it. In short, just to be clear, you carried out a cyber attack on Hungarian citizens with Hungarian taxpayers' money, and then denied it because you were caught. Instead of taking a drop of responsibility, however, they tried to sweep the whole thing under the rug as if nothing had happened. And what's more, the cake is that, of course, a significant part of the stakeout was a critical person against the government. [[11.20]] We also know the other category very well, and it makes this proposal particularly picant that the Minister responsible for the Law in the Government is also the Minister responsible for misinformation, Antal Rogán, because he is the one who is legally responsible for managing government communication, which has been able to lie since they came to government. They lied about the European Union, the Hungarian opposition, the Russian-Ukrainian war, the national consultation, but they also lied about the Pegasus spy program mentioned earlier, so they lied about everything and everything they're about. In addition, in many cases, especially in the context of the genocidal war launched by the Russian aggressor against Ukraine, not only have they lied, but they publish or approve materials identical to Russian state propaganda, thus serving foreign Russian interests. At this point we can also mention the public media, the leader of which is Dániel Papp, which is known to be a forgery, which also forgers news in many cases, but based on the leaked recordings, we also clearly know that the public media is considered by the government to be his mouthpiece, whose priority is also to silence opposition-bound opinions. We can also talk, for example, about KESMA or their Megaphone government glove puppets, which, in such ways, they are able to support with public money through government ads or other means. They also do this when one of the megaphone talking puppets calls the Hungarian soldiers in Transcarpathia second class, who fight the aggressor Russians as hero and proudly, or when the government media has lost dozens of lawsuits for lying for years. These successes are obviously compatible with Antal Rogán's other task of judging Hungary in a favourable way abroad. This is so successful these days that Viktor Orbán is not invited to some meetings in the EU and NATO. In conclusion, it can therefore be said that the biggest cyber threat in Hungary is the Hungarian government, which is not deterred by attacks against the Hungarian population. In such a situation, when Hungarian citizens are virtually defenceless against government self, a bill on such cybersecurity is not worth as much as the paper on which it has not been printed. Thank you for listening.
u2023-03-28-54	The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Zoltán Sas. Here you go.
u2023-03-28-55	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear fellow Members, Dear House, A few decades ago, it would have been unthinkable to talk about such a subject, since, let alone cyberspace, there was no Internet, but we have to react flexibly and effectively to all such changes. Why is cyber security important today? In particular, most critical sectors are increasingly dependent on digital technology. For example, energy, health or even the financial sector. Of course, we must not go beyond the unfortunate fact that there is a war going on in our neighbourhood, which unfortunately is also an act in cyberspace, and it is imposing additional tasks on us, and we can safely say that cyber security is also deteriorating as the international security situation continues to deteriorate. The issue of cybersecurity is already a priority in itself, since cyber attacks and cyber crime are becoming increasingly frequent and sophisticated around the world. The EU estimates that 41 billion devices will be connected to the Internet by 2025. It is therefore in our common interest to create a safe cyberspace. It is important that precise cyber security rules are established as soon as possible in the EU and in Hungary. Certain forms of cybercrime are causing serious damage, according to EU information, global damage of 5.5 billion euros has been caused so far. It is also important to mention the work of the European Union Cybersecurity Agency to support Member States and EU institutions in combating cyber attacks. Perhaps the most important of the EU's cyber security targets is: protecting against cyber threats, creating a secure communication environment, in particular through quantum secrecy and ensuring access to data for judicial and law enforcement purposes. Taking these objectives into account, a new EU cybersecurity strategy was created. The main aim of this strategy is also to strengthen Europe's resilience to cyber threats and to provide security-resistant services and digital tools for people and businesses. It is important to point out here that it is indeed necessary for us and it may be justified to review our cyber protection strategy and, where appropriate, to make it appropriate to meet the current challenges. The most important change in the EU Cyber Protection Directive NIS 2 is that it now provides for a significantly larger number of large and medium-sized enterprises with certain mandatory cyber security precautions and protocols. While the original 2016 directive largely imposed obligations on enterprises and organisations operating in the digital sector, in addition to the critical sectors, food, medical companies, various machinery manufacturers and waste management companies were included under the umbrella of the regulation. The private companies and state-owned companies concerned should carry out detailed internal cybersecurity audits and put in place different technological and organisational changes in order to combat cyber attacks more effectively. Companies that do not comply with the NIS 2 Directive can expect serious sanctions. Dear fellow Members, The proposal we are discussing now requires us to have a binding task on the basis of EU harmonisation rules. I have no doubt that the Hungarian Parliament will fulfil this task, and I do not believe that it is in our well-conceived national interest. The regulation of the performance of national cybersecurity certification authorities establishes a domestic framework for cybersecurity certification and ensures the enforcement of the regulation, and establishes cybersecurity requirements for operators in major sectors of economic life and introduces an official oversight system in the legislation currently planned. I would like to draw attention to the fact that these changes also justify a current revision of the National Information Security Act. Furthermore, it is important to note that the current activity of the Supervisory Authority for Regulatory Activities and the operation of the National Cyber Protection Institute within the framework of the National Security Service may be parallel, which is necessary and justified in the long term. The planned 24th. § (1) regulates the payment of the cyber security fee to the data subjects to the SZTFH, which is also included in the separate annex, but the law maximizes the turnover of the previous year by 0.15%. I would like to note here that, to my knowledge, this burden will not be imposed on those concerned in the European Union, so in this case, if it is introduced, although the range of stakeholders is not very significant, as Mr Secretary of State has said, but this will mean additional costs for the companies involved in Hungary. The proposal is 22nd. In paragraph 10 of this Article, the auditor must receive documents during the audit, which is perfectly all right, but in this proposal the auditor has included data containing personal data and business secrets, which can be handled by the auditor until the investigation is conducted, and although the bill describes that this cannot be shared with a third party, I believe this point is of great concern. The website of the SZTFH, which will soon be responsible for cyber security supervision, was visited by a cyber-defense expert. Yesterday we found 34 vulnerabilities, some of which are critical. For example, a competent attacker can easily access the website from the outside to run potentially harmful codes. This is, of course, not the fault of the legislator or the author, but it is absolutely necessary and justified that the organisation that deals with cybersecurity and cybersecurity control should operate a website where at least it has not committed professional errors for itself. I would like to draw attention to the fact that there are no such problems on the website of the National Cyber Protection Institute of the Services. Finally, but not least, if it is already cyber defence, perhaps one of the first challenges of the system that we are about to introduce is to examine and explore the fact that, over the past period, states in our federal system have banned the deployment of government tools in the case of certain applications. The most well-known and perhaps the most important example in this respect is the ban on the use of TikTok for government instruments. [[11.30]] The justification for the domestic application of this measure is necessary and it will be worth investigating in Hungary as well, namely that installing TikTok or similar applications on a government tool could or could cause security problems; I believe that it can. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2023-03-28-56	The lead speaker of the Group of our countries, Mr István Szabadi, is next. I give you the floor, please.
u2023-03-28-57	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, Dear House, This bill is a prelude to the fact that 2019/881. In order to comply with the deadline laid down in Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council, from 1 January 2022, the Supervisory Authority for Controlled Activities was established and appointed to carry out national cybersecurity certification tasks. As of 1 October 2021, SZTFH's powers as a kind of super authority have therefore been expanded by the supervision of cyber security, even though we are not convinced that it has been able to carry out its existing tasks, such as the supervision of executive and winding-up activities involving corruption. According to the explanatory memorandum of the bill, the amendment to the law of 2021 did not attempt to re-regulate cybersecurity in substance. They will now make up for this by setting domestic certification requirements for infocommunications products and services not covered by the EU certification scheme. According to the SZTFH, the purpose of the certification activity is to ensure compliance with the constantly evolving requirements of cybersecurity in the case of ICT devices and services that can be purchased by citizens and businesses. However, the bill did not cover the electronic information security of public and municipal bodies, as this was shortened by an earlier law, Act L of 2013: Ibtv. It's regulated. The Ibtv. State and local government bodies subject to its scope are obliged to designate information security officers, and in these bodies the vulnerability assessment and penetration testing, i.e. penetration testing, shall be carried out free of charge by the staff of the National Cyber Protection Institute on the basis of a prior appointment. The audited body shall correct the identified vulnerabilities and report this to the Cyber Protection Institute. Ladies and gentlemen, At this point, I would like to point out that state and municipal authorities use a number of US software licenses where the service provider is obliged to pass data on users to the US agency, the US agency. The question therefore arises as to whether the data leak passes the audit and plans to stop the government from transmitting sensitive data in this direction. If TikTok is banned from offices in the United States, for example, why can't this arise in the case of state and municipal bodies? The bill establishes a domestic framework for cybersecurity certification and sets cybersecurity requirements for players in important sectors of economic life. It covers a highly risky and risky electronic information system for organisations operating in risky sectors. It is interesting that only companies manufacturing in vitro diagnostic medical devices, which diagnose using a sample from the human body, are not included in the in vivo, i.e. manufacturers of digital devices under the skin. My question is that you are aware of this selection. The scope of the bill does not even cover companies operating critical infrastructure, as well as micro and small enterprises in general, unless they act as electronic communications service providers, trust providers, DNA service providers or domain name registration providers. However, in our view, micro and small businesses could be at a competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis large companies in the area of cyber security. The SZTFH, the Supervisory Authority for Regulatory Activities, advertises on its website that it facilitates the compliance of domestic manufactured development products and services with cybersecurity requirements and the emergence of these products and services in the EU Single Market. It would be appropriate to extend the scope of the bill to micro and small enterprises with appropriate government support for administrative burdens. It should be noted that producers and users of digital nanotechnology are not among the organisations involved, so the question arises that the government is preparing for the era of nanoterrorism, as this must also be prepared. In addition, on the basis of the bill, stakeholders should include international cloud and social network providers. What will the government do if Facebook or Google refuse to submit to cybersecurity audits? Should we fine them? Otherwise, I'd love to. They've got plenty of money. There is a problem that only the domain name providers of the organisations concerned have a disclosure obligation, which applies to customers, but the results of the cybersecurity audit are not published. In vain, for example, smart car manufacturers are involved if, when buying a new car, information about the communication and encryption protocol of the car cannot be obtained from the dealer. According to the bill, the conformity assessment body shall issue a national cyber protection certificate for conformity under the national cybersecurity certification scheme. This is nice, but with the ever more significant cybercrime, the SZTFH can take the step, since a port-scan or data-fishing circular can be launched in one minute, practically free. Question is, the authorities have a cybercrime strategy. During audit investigations, the auditor goes through the framework point by point, the organisation meets the requirements and examines this. For this purpose, the ISO 27001 standard is used for public and municipal bodies. The failure of the bill to make the use of ISO 27001 mandatory. In addition, there is a deficiency in the fact that the bill does not separate audit from vulnerability testing, even though an auditor's qualification does not give the authority to carry out vulnerability testing. Auditors shall monitor the IT system on the basis of ISO standards as a whole and have no specific expertise in the field of IT vulnerability testing. In addition, it does not regulate the degree required to conduct the vulnerability test and the conditions under which penetration testing, i.e. ethical hacking, can be carried out. Overall, the bill acts in the direction of cyber security regulation. If a company deals with domain name services or software development, then there should be a requirement that must be met, otherwise the Hungarian cyberspace will be threatened. However, we do not agree that the task of cybersecurity supervision is entrusted to the Super Authority SZTFH, which apparently cannot cope with the supervision of executive activity. Its designation means extending public control and monitoring to operators. It is also of concern that the SZTFH determines who is involved in auditing and vulnerability testing, so that the companies it has dedicated may be given full power in cyber security. Overall, we support the proposal, as it is a necessary measure, but the shortcomings listed must be regulated at least at regulation level. Thank you very much.
u2023-03-28-58	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No further comments were received. I'll ask if anyone else wants to take that chance. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State... [[For signal:]] It indicates that you do not wish to respond to what has been said. In this case, I would like to inform my fellow Members that it is possible to submit the amendments by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the legal relationship with the Hungarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the second half of 2024 and on certain related provisions will follow. Government referral T/3315. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Répássy Róbert, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda, in a 30-minute time frame, who will give the presentation about the pulpit. I give the floor to the Secretary of State. [[11.40]]
u2023-03-28-59	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Dear House, Honourable Members, In the second half of 2024 Hungary will hold the Presidency of the Council of the European Union for the second time after 2011. The Council of the European Union and the European Parliament, as co-legislators of the Union, play a key role in shaping the future of the Union and its legislation. As President of the Council, the Hungarian ministers and State Secretarys will chair the meetings of the ministers responsible for specific issues in the 27 Member States. The laws to be negotiated and adopted at ministerial councils and other matters will be developed by expert working groups chaired by Hungarian experts. Although there is more than a year left before the start of the Hungarian Presidency, preparations are already under way. The government has begun to think about what issues we want to pay particular attention to, what our priorities can be, in which we can make a substantial contribution to European cooperation, with the support of other Member States. The Presidency should not focus its own national objectives during its presidency semester, but should work to promote the common interests of the Council of 27 Member States as a neutral mediator. At the same time, the Presidency gives Member States the opportunity to give their semester a face with questions that are important for themselves. The Hungarian Presidency will be held during the special period of the EU institutional cycle change: the elections to the European Parliament will take place in the late spring of 2024 and the European Commission will expire on 31 October and the mandate of the President of the European Council will expire on 30 November. The Hungarian Presidency semester will therefore be fundamentally determined by institutional changes. This means that, at the beginning of our Presidency, we must expect less classic legislative work. At the same time, this period is well suited for thinking about the future, identifying, analysing, and reflection on new trends. One of the fundamental tasks and objectives of the Hungarian Presidency will be to ensure a smooth transition to the next institutional cycle and to build close and constructive relations with new institutional actors. The Lisbon Treaty entered into force shortly before the 2011 Hungarian EU Presidency and was one of the innovations of the so-called trio presidency: three Member States, in a predefined order, jointly outline an 18-month comprehensive plan setting long-term objectives, setting out the topics and key issues that the Council will address during the 18-month period. As with Spain and Belgium in 2010-2011, we form the trio presidency in the second half of 2023 with the Belgian Presidency in the first half of 2024. The trio Presidency programme will be presented at the end of June 2023 at the Council meeting of Ministers for European Affairs. The finalization of the Hungarian Presidency programme is expected in June 2024. For strategic and political direction of Presidency preparation, the government has set up a government committee led by the Prime Minister. In view of the fact that the Minister of Justice is responsible for the government coordination of EU affairs, the Ministry of Justice is responsible for carrying out the tasks of the EU Presidency and for political coordination. Policy and content preparation is provided by the Ministry's Secretary of State for EU Affairs, while hundreds of events in Hungary are responsible for organising informal ministerial meetings through summits to professional conferences and for the tasks related to the external appearance of the Presidency. The Presidency's conductor staff is at the Ministry of Justice, but the Presidency's tasks will be carried out not only by this one ministry, but also by officials dealing with EU affairs in all other wallets today. In order to achieve our policy Presidency goals, we will effectively represent the interests of the 27 Member States, we will succeed in EU legislation, and the work of hundreds of people working in the whole spectrum of central administration. In addition to the knowledge of all details of cases and the existence of meticulous negotiating strategies, it is also essential that the presidency staff be able to react quickly and decisively to various events and developments. The experienced, dedicated and motivated staff of officials is also a prerequisite for the successful delivery of the Presidency. The EU machinery operates 24 hours a day, and its contents will have to be operated by the Hungarian administration in the second half of 2024. This represents a significant additional work for our colleagues compared to normal operation in the Member States. The government is convinced that this extra work must be properly recognised. This is the purpose of the EU Presidency's relationship to be established by the bill. The performance of Presidency tasks in the professional career of its participants is a great challenge and honour that will certainly be remembered for many decades. It is an excellent opportunity for Hungary to demonstrate once again that it is ready and able to work to further develop community and joint European cooperation 20 years after EU accession. The work of officials participating in the work of the Hungarian EU Presidency is an essential component of this. The proposal proposes that prepared professionals in the wider public sector should be able to establish a new relationship under their fundamental rights in order to perform effectively and effectively certain tasks relating to the EU Presidency, so that their expertise can also be used to perform the Presidency tasks in an impeccable and high quality manner. The new legal relationship can thus enable a significant part of the Presidency's tasks to be carried out by professionals already working in the public sector, which may reduce the temporary extra human resources needed by the public administration during the Presidency period. The bill also includes amendments to the National University of Public Service. The NKE's profession is to train professionals in the field of public administration, national and police protection, to ensure the replacement of officers, and to create interoperability between unified public service careers. In view of these complex tasks and the demands of higher education arising from the dynamic changes in the global environment surrounding Hungary, the transfer of practical professional experience to the audience, the involvement of foreign authorities in training and the development of national cooperation are becoming increasingly important. The proposal aims to increase the effectiveness of the NKE's vocation and tasks, focusing on improving the practical and international aspects of the university's educational activities. The vast majority of training courses require significantly greater demonstration and integration of practical professional experience in education in comparison with other higher education institutions. The best way to achieve this goal is to enable the NEC to involve practitioners in its activities in a larger volume. This practical approach is widespread worldwide, particularly in the field of teaching applied sciences in Scandinavia and the United Kingdom. At international level, it is also typical of involving experts with practical experience as educators and integrating them into higher education systems. In the case of NKE, for example, there is a particularly significant proposal among military trainers who cannot expect the scientific activity required at universities during their active careers. In the same way, its priority is to enhance internationalisation in order to make the experience and academic knowledge of international authorities recognised in the context of knowledge and training provided by the NKE as much as possible. As a result of the provisions of the bill, there would be more room for manoeuvre for NKE to employ foreign authorities, which would not only lead to progress in training and scientific operations, but also increase the overall visibility of the institution. [[11.50]] The bill also includes amendments to improve the performance of public tasks with regard to NKE, e.g. it clarifies that the university can be assigned to management by an outstanding professional, primarily with practical experience, but only with a scientific degree in specific cases. I ask this House to support the bill. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-03-28-60	Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I would like to address Mr Richárd Hörcsik, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, who will also give his speech on the platform. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-03-28-61	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! According to observational folk wisdom, the arrival of swallows at the end of March is the surest sign that spring has arrived. The bill we are discussing now in this House indicates as a first swallow that the period of the Hungarian EU Presidency is approaching slowly, which will be an extremely intensive work lasting six months, six months, six months, for which the preparations started several months ago from the government, it is enough to refer only to the appointment of Zoltán Kovács, the government commissioner responsible for communication and home events, or the ministerial commissioners responsible for the professional and linguistic preparation of experts. Ladies and gentlemen, We are now living in a period of professional preparation and the setting of legal frameworks. I could also say that the success of these, as Mr Secretary of State has said, largely determines what work our country will do from the first day of July 2024 until 31 December. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us aims to create a special, complementary relationship for government experts, as we have heard, who, in the second half of 2024 Presidency of Hungary, take a special responsibility as Head of the Council Working Group as an expert. The bill and the legal relationship it creates reminds me of the legislation on public project evaluators, which also required special EU expertise for the legal relationship. But the difference is that as long as the project evaluation is a longer term, I could say that it relates to EU budgetary cycles, we will spend six months in the Presidency of the EU Council. We can add that the cooperation of the trio presidency, i.e. three countries following the presidency, will begin in July 2023, as Hungary will follow Spain and Belgium as third members of the trio. Dear House, I would like to point out that the bill is counting on those professionals in the public sector who want to use their expertise to perform the Presidency's task in an impeccable and high level. Of course, additional work is followed by remuneration, and the bill establishes an EU Presidency for those with fundamental rights in the public sector. I recall that during the first Hungarian EU presidency in the first half of 2011, there was no similar law, but there were cases in which certain professionals from other areas, whether state or horribile dictu or EU institutions were employed for a limited period of time. And that semester, I believe, is not forgotten by many, who still took responsibility for the successful Presidency. After Hungary's accession to the EU in 2004 and then Schengen at the end of 2007, the first half of 2011 was a real milestone in our membership. We could also say that this was our EU fire baptism, because we have shown that we are fully capable of accomplishing this task, even if the attacks that have been largely ideologically based to date have started in spring 2011, if I remember correctly, against our country. Ladies and gentlemen, The results of our first Presidency, I believe, are self-evident and talkative. At the end of June 2011, negotiations for Croatia's accession to the EU were concluded and, well, two years later, Croatia became a member of the Union. Then, during the Hungarian Presidency, we adopted the EU Roma Framework Strategy, or even the Danube Strategy, and today, few people know that to tackle the economic crisis, the European Semester, which represents fiscal and economic policy coordination, was launched in 2011, and I repeat, a Hungarian initiative that still affects Member States' budgetary policies. We have done a great deal at this time, for example, against initiatives to prioritize Mediterranean cooperation in order to achieve closer cooperation with the EU's eastern neighbours in the Eastern Partnership, and I believe that this has clearly proved to be a wise idea in today's difficult period of war. In addition, the adoption of a number of directives or regulations could be highlighted. We can say that the persistent efforts of János Martonyi's foreign affairs during the Presidency, which was well organised by Commissioner Ferenc Robák, have brought results, so thanks to the former Commissioner and the Ministers, but also to all Hungarian citizens working for the Presidency. Ladies and gentlemen, The first Hungarian Presidency, perhaps, owes its effectiveness to its password, which also determines its spirituality, which is a strong Europe with a human dimension. I believe that this very human dimension should also give particular emphasis to the time of our second Presidency, and this is a clear way of introducing this relationship, which we find here on the table in this House, which I believe will create a stable background and predictable conditions for work. The EU Presidency may be established primarily on the basis of restricted, exceptionally tender procedures. The right to tender shall be conferred on the Minister responsible for coordinating EU matters. The bill also lays down the conditions for the conclusion of the Treaty establishing an EU Presidency and the establishment of a legal relationship. This intended contact may be maintained up to 30 June 2025. Ladies and gentlemen, The upcoming Hungarian EU Presidency period is slightly different from that of the Union's political and legislative agenda. As Mr Secretary of State has said, I would say that it will be an extremely exciting six months not only for Hungary, but also for the European Union, when we can expect fewer legislative tasks, but more political negotiations. We are well aware that the start of the budget will be one month after the elections to the European Parliament, and that the re-election of the European Commission is likely to be a crucial task for us in the course of the semester. I would also like to point out that, in addition to the government, the Parliament is also responsible for tasks, important tasks from the 2024 Hungarian EU Presidency. Parliamentary events require long, even months of preparatory work and organisation. As the two sides of the coin, the governmental, parliamentary dimension, I believe, are mutually complementary, reinforcing each other. Parliamentary events are basically a series of events on the basis of customary law, a kind of multilateral diplomatic task, since, in addition to Member States' parliamentary delegations, for example, the European Parliament is represented. Ladies and gentlemen, In the context of the bill, a few words should also be said about the parliamentary dimension of the EU Presidency's tasks. Based on the concept approved by the Speaker, the preparation period has begun. [[12.00]] Following Mr Speaker's decision, the parliamentary forum for EU Presidency preparation will be the Committee on European Affairs, and the engine of preparation will be a coordination body at office level, which has already started its work. The narrow parliamentary dimension of the EU Presidency, if I count it correctly, represents five to six intergovernmental conferences in Budapest, with a staff of about 100 to 300 people. We are pleased that the representatives of the EU candidate countries can attend and speak at these conferences as well, and that Ukraine, Moldova and Bosnia and Herzegovina, for example, can prepare as candidates on the basis of the decisive decisions of the last year. And in this respect, I believe that we are pleased to note that, after many years, accession negotiations have started with Albania, northern Macedonia, and that the EU enlargement methodology has already been applied to four accession countries. And the figurative coronation of the EU presidency is the primus inter pares meeting of the EU Speakers in Budapest. Ladies and gentlemen, As President of the Committee on European Affairs, I would like to finally mention a few points about the so-called COSAC meetings. COSAC is a French abbreviation: a conference of European Affairs Committees, attended by the Chairs of the European Affairs Committees of the Member States and candidate countries, and a delegation of the European Parliament. It shall have rules of procedure and interpretation shall be ensured at its plenary sessions in all EU places. The COSAC presidential meeting will be the opening of the presidency semester, while the COSAC plenary meeting of nearly 300 will be the closing event of our Presidency. By the way, they'll be housed in the House of Parliament. In May 2011, when I was able to chair the COSAC plenary session in the Chamber of Felsőházi, I managed to amend the rules of procedure of this Gremium, which was supported by all delegations with great and great debates. By the way, I note that none of the presidencies have attempted to amend the Rules of Procedure since then. Finally, I would also like to point out that in the history of the Union, perhaps in a unique way, among the representatives of the 27 Member States, I may be the only one who, by means of two presidency cycles, will be able to re-chair COSAC in 12 years' time. Ladies and gentlemen, For the Presidency of the EU Council, Member States are prepared not only with staff decisions, legislative frameworks and protocols. In the world of diplomacy, as before the changes in EU policy in recent years, all Member States are preparing a widely communicated programme. And this programme, I believe, is characterised by a clear set of values. For example, no Member State has undertaken to represent the already mentioned Roma Framework Strategy. For example, our French friends would not have been more enthusiastic about cooperation with Moldova or the Caucasus than we were. It would be good to return to this order, all the more so, because in most of the cases represented 12 years ago, there was little progress. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to representing the political priorities of the EU Member States, the EU Presidency also offers direct presentation of the country and the nation, their history, culture, traditions and gastronomy, linked to professional policy events. Allow me to mention only one thing: the Tokaj, close to my heart, has received a broad introduction during our presidency. It can be seen that Presidency preparation is an extremely complex process where all details need to be taken into account, including the development of the Presidency programme, as well as the quality of served foods and wines. In order for our Presidency to be effective again, we must be prepared for both organisational and legislative backgrounds. I believe that this is what the bill before us contributes to. That is why I ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-03-28-62	Zsolt Gréczy, lead speaker of the Democratic Coalition Group. Here you go.
u2023-03-28-63	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear House, Of course, it would be a celebration for Hungary that Hungary will hold this important position for six months, which we are talking about here, but unfortunately the Government of Hungary is completely inadequate. It is inappropriate because Hungary is an isolated country of Paris all over Europe today; here we stand without one ally, with crushed diplomatic relations, crushed V4s, economic disruption, and the daily moral damage I have not even mentioned very much. In this context, Hungary is honoured to be President-in-Office again. I just don't know how they're going to explain to their negotiating partners that the Speaker said earlier that Europe doesn't exist; how they're going to tell their negotiating partners that, according to the Speaker, the European Union is also a messed-up institutional system; how they're going to say that the Hungarian Prime Minister said I quote abroad - he wouldn't vote for Hungary to become a member of the European Union today. And then, not to mention all the posters in Brussels and the barbecue, so that we can tell them and they won't tell us how they think they're gonna account for it? I understand that for six months now they will try to behave as if Hungary were a normal, cultural country during your governance, but unfortunately, these people who will come here to negotiate know exactly who you are. For example, the one in-house Sweden, whose accession to NATO the Hungarian government refuses to even submit to Parliament, let alone put to the vote. Let us imagine that from 1989-90 onwards, from the time of the change of regime, governments have worked to make Hungary a respected member of the European Union and NATO. That is why József Antall worked, which is why Gyula Horn worked, which is why the first Orbán government worked, and that is why the Medgyessy government worked, which signed the accession, and that is why the Gyurcsány government worked, when Hungary joined the Schengen area. And here we are, in a situation where Hungary does not have any friends in the European Union. The Orbán government is the only one who is on Putin's side in the war; the Orbán government is the only one that does not support sanctions back home, while not supporting sanctions against the Russians, while in Brussels Viktor Orbán voted for them all; otherwise, last week he voted in favour of an opportunity to vote well again on the next penalty. So there is simply a credibility problem with the Hungarian government. You can see that the cooperation in Visegrád, which was previously considered so important, is in ruins. In Poland, a survey has been carried out in recent weeks on their relationship with Hungary: the Hungarian government and Hungary have fallen. And this is happening in Poland during a government such as the Kaczyński government, which, in principle, may even be sympathetic on an ideological basis, remains with the Orbán government. And it is in a situation where the current Presidency of Hungary does not come to Hungary with EU money. And the EU money is not coming because the entire European Union believes that the Orbán government is being stolen here, and there are no conditions of the rule of law under which Hungary would be considered a democratic country. It is no coincidence that the European Union has set strict criteria for the conditions under which they are willing to reopen the money tap, but you have not yet submitted these draft laws to Parliament, which, by the way, has a deadline of 31 March, which should have been adopted; if I have seen it, we still have two days left to do so, but I have noted this with irony, of course. This means that Hungary will not receive EU funds in the long term, and you can already see the relentless damage that this kind of behaviour of the Orbán government will cause to Hungary, and this will also be felt in the context of the Presidency-in-Office. [[12.10]] The damage caused by today's recent KSH data that there is a real wage fall in Hungary has been reduced by more than 7 percent in Hungary in the first months of 2023. Investment stops, a lot of companies can't pay their employees, so there's a lot of trouble. You have to look at the budget deficit, you have to look at the exchange rate of the forint, they all show the uncertainty against Hungary, the credit rating agencies are dancing the Hungarian financial system on the brink, we are one step away from recommending Hungary to invest. Today, Hungary is totally incompetent, thanks to the crimes of the Orbán government, to perform the tasks of the President-in-Office. Simply looking around on the map of Europe has even said from the Prime Minister's mouth that you are Italians! It is possible to see the terms even the Italian Prime Minister uses, say, in connection with the Russian-Ukrainian war, this is in no way due to the Hungarian government's position. In addition, the appointment rules for the University of Public Service are added to this package, where it is not very understandable why these are happening now. What does this have to do with the presidency-in-Office? Once again, we are talking about such a fidesz doggy happening, about a new kind of implementation of the framework when the President of the Republic's husband was turned into a lieutenant colonel in defence in a few weeks, which is unparalleled. I think even the Fidesz MEPs laughed in terror when they read this. It is still not very understandable how the change in the appointment practice of the National University of Public Service serves or is linked to our Presidency tasks in the European Union. In such a case, let us say, this can be imagined when it is necessary for certain people to carry out these work, which is the task of the Presidency-in-Office, but, for example, it is not understandable why the mandate of these people to be appointed is extended further months after the end of the Presidency-in-Office, until 2025, if they have to perform tasks specifically relating to the Presidency-in-Office. By the way, this kind of haste shows exactly how bad the state of Hungarian diplomacy is. You referred to it here in 2011, when the Presidency-in-Office was here, I note that the Foreign Minister was still called János Martonyi, and it cannot be compared, of course, with the diplomatic capabilities represented by the current Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. Simply the style and tone that Hungarian diplomacy allows against our own allies, now all the way up to the United States, so these sentences are: "How do you imagine? How do you think? They do not help to strengthen Hungarian diplomatic relations, so to speak. To sum up, the position of the Democratic Coalition is that the Orbán government is completely inadequate to carry out this task; a country that is completely alone, without allies in European space; when it came to Hungary, I don't even know when it was the last time European leader came, so they are trying to replace the relationship system that has been lost recently with Turk Councils. We need to see how you speak about the Orbán government, let us say, whether it is the Czech or Slovak official leadership, not to mention the Germans. Scandinavian relations have just been crushed by the overlay of NATO accession. There, it was not even possible to maintain their position that they had previously said that the Russians' concerns were understandable, since the Russians did not want their borders to expand with regard to NATO. Compared to this, Finland has been able to grant NATO accession, which is specifically bordering with Russia and not with Sweden, who are not bordering with Russia. So even this earlier position was completely annihilated and simply made themselves the subject of public ridicule. It would be extremely important for the Hungarian Government to be able to represent Hungary in a worthy manner during the semester of the Presidency. However, as I have indicated, there is no diplomatic conditions and there is no moral mandate, which was characteristic of all governments before 2010. I will give you an example: the preparation of the 2011 Presidency was arranged and prepared by the Bajnai government. I would like to say here that the co-chair of that preparatory board was called Zsolt Németh, representing Fidesz. So at the time, these relations between Hungarian parties and cooperation on Europe were still functioning by being co-chaired by a Fidesz Member of Parliament, who was also Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, during the Bajnai government, by the way, by the way, with Attila Mesterházy, a preparatory body for the 2011 Presidency, just to give another name from the other side. So that's how it worked then. Today, for example, I do not believe that any of the opposition's representatives would be invited to participate in such a work; otherwise, I do not think it very likely that any of the opposition's parties would mess themselves with this Orbán regime in such a situation. DK is extremely proud of the process that led Hungary to join the European Union in 2004, during the Medgyessy government, and is very proud that we joined the Schengen area during the Gyurcsány government in 2007. Seeing how the so-called leaders of Fidesz's communication platforms, in so-called debates, speak of Brussels, Europe, the Union and Hungarian membership of the European Union, I think all embassy receive these reports, the summaries of this, and they are obviously aware of how they talk about the Dutch, how they talk about the Swedes, the French, the Germans, it is enough to open any fidesz organ at any time. If you believe that this will help Hungarian diplomacy and believe that this will help the Hungarian EU Presidency, then I think this is a fundamental misunderstanding. The Government of Hungary is therefore not fit for this task, and this causes extremely serious damage to Hungary politically, morally and economically. Thank you very much. [[Mrs. Rácz is applauding Judith Earth.]]
u2023-03-28-64	Our next speaker is Hajnalka Juhász, lead speaker of the KDNP Group. I'll give the floor to the congresswoman, please.
u2023-03-28-65	Madam President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, This EU Presidency, which we have completed for the second time since our accession, is a huge opportunity. This is the 20th anniversary for our country and we will be responsible for the second half of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. We can prepare for a second Presidency where there is a huge experience based on the first Presidency. In response to my fellow Member, Mr Gréczy, I am not surprised that his rhetoric is working against Hungary in Brussels, it is your policy now, and we especially thank you for sharing your professional experience with us, especially with those who have participated in the administration and Parliament during our first Presidency. I can highlight many of my colleagues, such as President Hörcsik, Secretary of State Répássy, Ferenc Robák, Enikő Győri, Bálint Ódor. This is a very big opportunity for a country, and in 2024 the three of us with the Troika, as has already been said, with Spain, Belgium, will represent the second period of the 2024 Presidency. We are a country and I would like to stress that we are very proud to take on the Presidency because our first Presidency is responsible for the conclusion of the negotiating chapters in Croatia. The Hungarian Presidency has worked extremely hard to make Croatia a member of the European Union in 2013. Since then, since such a successful Presidency, one country has not been able to conclude EU membership negotiating chapters. [[12.20]] If we look at the history of the Union, it is the only country since the Hungarian Presidency that has expanded the European Union, Croatia, and has decreased with the United Kingdom. These are very serious experiences, the questioning of which, I think, refers to a very large technical deficiency. It is also important to see, in the context of the 24-year Presidency, that the troika is traditionally made up of three countries and represents the Presidency-in-Office of the Council itself, but it has free scope for Member States to define their priorities. In the case of the three countries, this could be independent of each other. What the Hungarian Government consistently represents is certain that it will appear in the Presidency's tasks; the importance of enlargement in the Western Balkans, the protection of the rights of national minorities, I think are fundamental values that we represent as first and foremost players in the European Union. What my fellow Member Gréczy said about the Visegrad Four is also incorrect. A month ago, we met in Bratislava, Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the Foreign Affairs Committees, and I think that a value for regional cooperation, a collaboration with the EU Presidency that raises and builds the country. As my fellow Member and State Secretary said, in an extremely important period of time, we will have the President-in-Office of the European Union, as a new European Parliament will rise after the end of the 2024 European Parliament elections. In addition, the election of the chairman of the committee will take place during the Hungarian Presidency, and therefore the institutional role will be extremely important. Our 20-year membership, our experience is a huge opportunity. Another thing that relates to the Presidency is a huge opportunity, a brand opportunity, a further branding for a country, and I reject any opposition contributions that criticize this or say that we are incompetent to fill this Presidency. A country can not only show that it is part of this system itself as a Member State of the European Union, but it can provide its cultural traditions and heritage with outstanding events. In this case, Europe's eyes are on the country. What is very important here in the context of the bill, and I think it is a very useful and good idea, this is the creation of an EU presidency. This special relationship, which aims to carry out the public task and to work, is in line with an existing legal system. For those working in public administration, this is a huge opportunity, and I myself was an administrative employee for our first EU Presidency, a very big role, opportunity, ambition and practical experience that can be handed over and taken over by public administrations. Otherwise, this is how the amendment of the University of Public Service is linked to this bill, as the amendment of the NKE also highlights the appreciation of practical experience in this bill. As President Hörcsik said, in addition to closing the negotiating chapters for Croatian accession, the other huge achievement of our Presidency is the Roma framework strategy. The Presidency achieved two achievements in 2011 that the European Union can still be proud of. I think that this could be a time for our EU Presidency when we are open and capable of creating all the dialogues that strengthen us. I think that this is the biggest key word in a Presidency, that we are strengthened by the Presidency, and that it plays a role in all types of dialogue, even though, as Mr State Secretary said, neutrality in political dossiers must be sought. I find the Presidency a very great opportunity, and I ask that you support this bill, which also strengthens the role of practical knowledge in relation to the University of Public Service. On the other hand, Hungary can be proud of its first Presidency, and there are more and more Member States that will hold the Presidency of the European Union for the second, third and many times. We have always represented a fundamental value that represents the strong Member States in the European Union, and in which we have a great deal of work to do, and I trust and ambition that the rights of national minorities should be dealt with to a great extent, because we need to see that the European Union does not have a framework for minority protection. Any country that joins the European Union will only be given a high level of minority protection stability and protection at the time of the conclusion of the negotiating chapters, after which there is no EU ex post norm control. That is why European citizens' initiatives which aim at this are very important. There's a lot of work to be done. Mr Secretary of State, fellow Members, this is a very big opportunity. There are also Members of the European Parliament, Zita Gurmai, Norbert Erdős, who also have a great deal of experience in this area as to how to think about EU countries. That is why I would like to ask the opposition not to stand up as an attacker and not as a representative of Brussels in Hungary, but as a country in the European Union. That's the main goal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-28-66	We now have the lead speaker of the MSZP Group, Ms Zita Gurmai. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2023-03-28-67	Thank you very much. Dear House, Madam President! Fellow Members! I looked up this 2011 sentence about what I had said about it. Indeed, this was a well-functioning Spanish-Belgian-Hungarian EU Presidency, and I said that it was a really professionally high five. I would like to point out that, politically, this was not perfect then. But in any case, I would like to add two more things, because I think it is important that we remember this too. In the joint programme of the tripartite Presidency, economic policy and crisis management were also among the most important tasks, and I think it is worth remembering the creation of the European External Action Service as well as the launch of the European Semester. I said that if Hungary has done something great, I must say that this is indeed the launch of the European Semester institution. Let us not forget the development of the 2020 strategy. However, it is clear that this must, in fact, continue to have a kind of dialogue with opposition representatives in this current Presidency. But specifically about this bill. The proposal aims to establish legislation on the performance of tasks related to the Hungarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the second half of 2024 and, according to the motion, it is a special relationship for work that can only be established with a person employed in the body defined by the Government's decree. In addition, the proposal on the National University of Public Service, as mentioned by my fellow Member Hajnalka Juhász, and the 2011 CXXXII on Public Police and Military Higher Education. It also amends the law. The change is justified by the involvement of professionals with experience in the university's activities, which means that you can also receive a management assignment at the university, with the exception of the rector's title, as a master's teacher. However, in relation to the position of the EU presidency, which is to be established in relation to the Hungarian Presidency of the Council of the EU for the second half of 2024, there are unclear issues, which I would like to say. The first one. The justification does not support why the system is primarily restricted and, in exceptional cases, it is only on the basis of a tender to fill the respective positions. The second question. The conditions for filling the legal relationship are extremely general, only the very basic criteria will be laid down in impunity, capacity to act, obligation to declare assets and national security investigation. At the same time, there is a reference to the fact that the conditions for education will be regulated in a government decree, and we will also not know more about this from the proposal. It raises further questions about the obligation for legal guardians to continue to carry out their current government mandate and to deal with the tasks of the EU Presidency in addition to their existing work. [[12.30]] But the strangest thing for me, after all, is to make it easier for the National University of Public Service to gain leadership. It is already difficult to understand why this is hidden in the bill establishing a relationship with the Hungarian Presidency. It is difficult to interpret this differently than the preparation of an appointment that could not have been achieved under the current conditions. This may be justified in some cases, but experience has shown that personalised legislation is much more appropriate. However, there is also insufficient information in this respect. So, in any case, I think we need to work on accepting this. Thank you very much.
u2023-03-28-68	The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, Mr Péter Balassa, is next. Here you go.
u2023-03-28-69	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Listening to the speeches, you have forgotten one very important thing, which, I think, will be a huge opportunity and a huge thing for Hungary. Next year's Olympic year. For Hungary, it is such an opportunity that next year, as of 26 July 2024, the Olympics will begin. This is a message for all of us, a message for Hungary, a message for everyone in such a war situation, when the Olympic idea encourages peace and unity. Before I go to the agenda, yesterday we discussed the agenda for the European Semester cycle in the Committee on European Affairs. It is important to know that in 2011 the 6th legislative package, which established the right, the central economic legal basis with which the European Semester started, was created in connection with the EU leadership of the Hungarian government in the current period; to look back a little bit. Twenty years after accession to the EU, Hungary will again have the opportunity to represent Europe and represent the Hungarian people as the European Union's current Member State in 2024. I would argue with DK, because Hungary is able to represent Hungarian people, but it doesn't matter how. We need to reflect honor, integrity and peace. When, unfortunately, you use continuous propaganda communication in a proposal for a resolution to amuse a situation where, in my opinion, not only in my opinion, but all Hungarian citizens and all people believe that this war has only losers, there are victims, children, civilians, we should not use Russian-Ukrainian proposals for decisions to create a mood. I think it's very important to say this. But if we look at the commitments of the Swedish EU Council Presidency between 1 January and 23 June 2023, four priorities have been identified. The first is security, unity, competitiveness, greening and energy transition, democratic values, the rule of law and fundamental values. Well, Hungary doesn't show the unit towards Sweden, so let's put it right here. Hungary will take the lead from Bulgaria in 2024 and will hand it over to Poland. In my opinion, the experience of the 2011 EU Presidency shows that a successful Presidency requires diverse areas, quality background work. In view of this bill, it creates a legal background for the fulfilment of the personal conditions, creating the so-called European Agency's presidency. For example, those who have such rights will perform the task of chairing and vice-chairing the working group or preparatory committee of the Council of the European Union, as well as the tasks of expert coordination and administration. The law lays down the conditions for the performance of the given task, lays down the procedure, but the regulation is very broad in the proposal. It is also interesting, as my fellow Member pointed out before me, that it will last until the end of the year, but the relationship with it may last until 30 June 2025. In this I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply as to why it is marked 30 June 2025. What has yet to be mentioned is the inappropriate regulation: the proposal, in the side water of the laws, even provides a special opportunity for the National University of Public Service, which is the favourite of Viktor Orbán, on the grounds that the university requires significantly more to be presented in the framework of practical, professional education, and can also receive a leadership mandate from an outstanding professional with first and foremost practical professional experience. This distinction from the relevant law is unacceptable, and otherwise the reason is not correct. It is enough to mention the broad technical higher education institutions from a training and territorial point of view. The success of the Hungarian EU Presidency depends decisively on the progress they can make on the topics identified as a priority by the government. The first half of 2011 is a success in this respect. This is the first time that the European Semester has been applied, which I have already talked about, and the Member States have also agreed on the so-called 6 legislative package. However, this success is also contradictory from a substantive point of view. These laws have led to the economic governance of the European Union, bringing it closer to the creation of a supranational superstate. Hungary's possibilities for coordination between Member States of different interest in many respects are now much worse than they were in 2011. The statements of the Orbán government, the image of the enemy of the EU institutions, the veto of the EU's joint declaration with China and Russia, the procrastination of Sweden's accession to NATO without any real reason, have also contributed to the isolation of the Orbán government within the Union. It seems that it is increasingly moving away from joint European action, its common goals, and does not show any compromise, which is a huge problem. This is why EU funds are still frozen and therefore the Visegrád Group, which has so far been a successful instrument of advocacy in the four Member States, is not working effectively. Orbán's oldest allies also turned away from Viktor Orbán. The government is making bad decisions that lead our country to drift out of the European Community, even though only Europe guarantees peace and security for Hungary. And, if you will allow me, I would like to say that in an article in the Conservative Paper Die Presse, the forthcoming Hungarian EU Presidency was considered a disaster. At the same time, the Jobbik-Conservatives want Hungary to succeed on important topics both for the Union as a whole and for its own real interests during its Presidency. This is an opportunity for Viktor Orbán to improve the image that has now been created about him and Hungary in Europe. Thank you for listening.
u2023-03-28-70	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We are now continuing the debate with the speakers who have been announced. In this context, I am speaking to Congresswoman Boglárka Elijah, Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2023-03-28-71	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, First of all, allow me to respond to the speeches, precisely to the speech of the representative of the Gyurcsány Party, because I believe that there have been several points and several sentences that are worth clarifying or worth correcting for the sake of the minutes. First of all, as regards incompetence: Hungary has a government that, as many of us have already said, proved in 2011, both to the Member States of the European Union and to the Hungarian people, to Hungarian voters and to European citizens, that it is able to plan, organise and complete a successful Presidency. The fact that he has already proved this to Hungarian voters has been acknowledged in 2014, 2018 and 2022. Of course, it's only part of it, it was just a slice, but I don't think there's any way around it. The other is, as far as the quotes are concerned, the responsibilities of subpoenas. If you do not accept from me why this is important, please allow me to live with a quote, but this quote comes from Attila József. I believe that a Member of Parliament's speech is, after all, part of his work, and if it is to work precisely, beautifully, as the star goes in the sky, it is worth it, then I would ask you to do this precisely when you wish to quote in Parliament. Because the quotes that he said, whether in relation to the Speaker of the House or in relation to the Prime Minister, do not stand the test of reality and accuracy. [[Zsolt Gréczy: I quoted them literally!]] The third is the question of Hungarian-Polish friendship. Last week we celebrated Hungarian-Polish friendship, Polish representatives were here, among other things, in the House of the country, and we are working to build this friendship, this alliance, and to further increase it. But let me also draw your attention to the fact that the President of the Committee on European Affairs, Mr Richárd Hörcsik, personally visited Rzeszów, where he opened the new consulate. There, too, we sought to build and strengthen this friendship. Therefore, I would ask you to participate actively, constructively, either in Polish terms or in other respects in building alliances and friendships in the event that you can serve Hungary's interests. [[12.40]] Unfortunately, you continue to demonstrate that, although we may agree that EU funds are entitled to Hungarian people, and that the Hungarian Government and Fidesz MEPs work to bring these EU funds to Hungary, but at the same time you and your MEPs are working against it, working against it, continuously adopting, approving and supporting decisions that condemn Hungary. However, when we decide, here in the Hungarian Parliament, on the measures that would help us to obtain the rightful resources for the Hungarian people, they are not supported in a series of ways. And my fifth reaction concerns my contribution to the preparation or preparation of the Presidency. You have objected to the fact that you cannot take part in this work. I am sorry, because I assume that you did not exactly listen to the speech by Richárd Hörcsik, President of the Committee on European Affairs, the speaker's speech, because he explained in detail that the Presidency preparation of the Council of the European Union has a parliamentary forum, and this parliamentary forum is the Committee on European Affairs. You have a Vice-President in the Committee on European Affairs, so I encourage and encourage you to participate in this work and not criticize what you cannot do, because you could, you should only be involved in this work. And let me now turn to the proposal before us in particular, because the proposal before us is about the relationship between the tasks of the Hungarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the second half of 2024 and certain related provisions. But if you would allow me, I would use the suggestion that we should look at this, what I have just said, that this is the headline of the proposal, and that if we can look at the headline as an official address, then perhaps we can give it a chapter, and it is usually the task of subtitles to provide students, viewers, readers, interpreters with guidance, content guidance, additions or explanations. I therefore believe that, in the context of this bill, there may also be a reason for drafting a chapter, which could even be that it is a complete, accurate, timely planning for improvisation-free, reliable implementation. Dear House, I believe that it is well known to all of us that the Presidency of the Council of the European Union is given every six months by a different EU state, which has been explained in detail by the Secretary of State. It is a legal tradition, which highlights the real meaning of the European Union, but still, I think it is a beautiful tradition, because it also includes respect for the nations that make up the Member States of the Union, and it provides an opportunity, and I think it also requires that the Member States of the European Union learn about each other's culture and hospitality, as Congressman Richard Hörcsik said, its gastronomy or the enjoyment of wines, but at the same time nature has shaped its landscapes and the buildings of human achievement. And this opportunity will come to us again in the second half of 2024, we can say that after a successful 2011 presidency, the returning guest who left satisfiedly is back on our doorstep, and we have the task of using the words of Mihály Vörösmarty to prove it again. As we were working for a strong Europe in 2011, I believe that this struggle, which, because of the inflation caused by war and the sanctions that have failed, may be even more time-consuming than we ever have to continue and we need to continue on this path. We continue to believe that with a strong Europe based on respect for one another and mutual cooperation, this is possible. Dear House, In the second half of 2024 we are therefore once again given the opportunity to prove to all of Europe, in addition to our hospitality already mentioned, our capacity, our spiritual and physical performance in the content and form of the organization, our tireless work force, and therefore all that has brought us into the heart of Europe for over a thousand years. The preparation, we can say, has already started, perhaps few think so, but I think, as we did four years ago, when Olivér Várhelyi was nominated EU Commissioner [[Zsolt Gréczy: You have a great success!]] , and it follows the path of integration of the Western Balkans with responsibility for the neighbourhood policy, or, as Mrs Hajnalka Juhász mentioned 12 years ago, we were working for Croatia and Croatia's accession, we can now work in the same way for the European perspective of the other countries of the Western Balkans. And as President Richárd Hörcsik said in his speech as a keynote speaker, we welcome the candidate status of Ukraine, Moldova and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and welcome the fact that accession negotiations have also started with Albania and Northern Macedonia. I believe that it is our shared responsibility to push for further action in this direction. The operational preparation started even when Zoltán Kovács took care of him as a government commissioner and received his appointment to carry out his duties as government commissioner for preparations for the presidency semester. And let's not forget the heroic work that the affected wallet does in this area every day. Thank you to the Ministry, thank you, Mr Secretary of State; I would also like you to give our thanks to your colleagues. And it is very important that when the opposition talks about fitness or, where appropriate, incompetence, I think that we should not forget those staff working in the administration who, thanks to the work and efforts of many years, work both professionally and diplomatically to make Hungary successful in this area. But just as the diplomatic steps, the successes of individual performance, I believe that the successful Presidency semester and its closure will require the cooperation of many, many, many dedicated, prepared people in a team; and this proposal before us is clearly about this, it is about the financial appreciation or even the encouragement of professionals working on a proud Hungarian Presidency, in addition to words. I therefore urge you, with all due respect, that, if you are able to associate with and support these professionals, that we recognise, appreciate, and start planning at this point, then I would ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-28-72	There will now be further speeches by Members. In this context, Mr Gréczy, Mr DK, asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2023-03-28-73	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear House, Then I'd like to respond to a few comments. Speaking of Attila József, I'd say air! I could tell you that I can also bring you an ancient rat that distributes disease and such, so I can bring you Attila József's quotes. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] It was said here that the cooperation in Visegrád worked fantastically well. Czech Speaker Petr Pavel: The Visegrád Alliance is in crisis. Closed subpoena mark. The massacre in Bucsai, where Russians shot Ukrainians in a mass grave by the way: Viktor Orbán said that he couldn't see clearly in this case, and Polish Prime Minister Kaczyński said that if he couldn't see clearly, he should go to an eye doctor. Well, that's how Visegrád cooperation works today. It has also been said that opposition MEPs are working against EU funds. Well, there is only one politician who specifically said that EU funds should be taken from Hungary, called Viktor Orbán. He said that in 2006 at the People's Party meeting in Strasbourg, anyone can look into it. There was only one such person who wanted to take EU money from his country, Viktor Orbán, nobody else. So even if you try to pin this on him, because of your thefts and legal abuses, Hungary will not receive these EU funds. In addition, I have to say several times here how fantastically successful the 2011 Hungarian Presidency has been, that to date no one knows why Hungary, the then Hungarian government, had given up on that opportunity, would have been an extremely important Eastern Partnership meeting during the Hungarian Presidency, but the Hungarian Presidency has forwarded this to the next Polish Presidency. Well, I can really let go of my fantasy about why Viktor Orbán did this. In addition, what was said here, didn't you say that I didn't exactly quote the Prime Minister and the Speaker? But, exactly, there's a quotation mark at the beginning of the sentence, and there's a quotation mark at the end of the sentence. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That doesn't mean that what you say is true!]] [[12.50]] I must ask one more question: if we are fighting so hard against Brussels, then my question is, in the six-month presidency, when foreign guests are here, will the posters in Brussels again flood the country with all kinds of war bombs? That's still my question. Thank you very much.
u2023-03-28-74	I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] I see two-minute requests. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász, KDNP. Here you go.
u2023-03-28-75	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We have tried to bring today's bill in the direction of what an opportunity this is for our country. I would ask my fellow Member, Mr Gréczy: so, on the basis of your speech, you are of the opinion that Hungary should not receive the Presidency of the EU? [[Zsolt Gréczy: What does this have to do with anything?]] Well, excuse me. Otherwise, do not be distasteful, because you use the word "smudge" and the word "fantasy" with you very carefully in this Parliament, since we are talking about the EU Presidency! [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] The other thing is: I think that an opposition politician should be ashamed of such a subject, and I am thinking of DK. This is a huge opportunity for a country. Once again, you are bringing the scenario that DK is always: scolding their country, scolding their country, going out to Brussels, expressing the view that everything is wrong here, nothing is working here, and you are not passing through to talk about the absence of any further negotiations on an extremely successful 2011 EU Presidency. In many cases, it is important for the EU Presidency of a given country to pay attention to whether, if a country opens a dossier, the next country carrying out a troika will take over or continue it; otherwise, a Member State is free to decide whether to continue it or not. Our greatest achievement is the conclusion of Croatia's negotiating chapters, as I stressed, since then, no Presidency has been able to put such a result on the table. Well, what are we talking about? ! Do you want to question the results of such a successful Hungarian Presidency? Well, show me a Member State that managed to close the negotiating chapters. Well... [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-28-76	Mr Róbert Zsigó also asked to speak for two minutes, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2023-03-28-77	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The only reason why I speak to him on the street would be to put it differently, but let us put it this way here in Parliament, because I would like to respond to Zsolt Gréczy's offensive and unjust sentences. Let us just say, honourable Member, that you and your Members of the European Parliament, and perhaps even the leader of your shadow government, are working to ensure that Hungary does not receive the rightful EU money for Hungary, so that these people and the settlements do not receive the EU money due to Hungarian people. It can be clouded here, but it's real. In addition, I would remind you that when you lecture us with such great vehemency that you have taken this country to the brink of bankruptcy under your government, the budget has been ruined, we can safely say that the families, the municipalities and the state have been indebted, and you are now accusing us of what you have just said, and not in any style. The fact is, honourable Member, that there is a case here at the Parliament's table, in which we could even join forces and even stand together in favour of the interests of Hungary, which is not typical for you recently, in recent years. I do not see that you are taking advantage of this opportunity to work for the Hungarian people, for the sake of the Hungarian people. We're sorry. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-28-78	Mr Zsolt Gréczy also applied for two minutes, DK. Here you go.
u2023-03-28-79	Thank you very much. On the one hand, it is a typical political mistake to say on the part of a government that what he says is in Hungarian interest. And I think that is the Hungarian interest. When you didn't govern, would the then ruling party have told you that you would betray your country and not represent the interests of Hungary? Stop saying that you always say that those who do not agree with you do not represent the interests of Hungary. It's a lie! It is also a lie that DK MEPs are working to ensure that Hungary does not receive EU funds; I say that Viktor Orbán was the only one who tried to do this. Yes, Hungary is given the opportunity to become the President-in-Office of the Union, because this is also the case for all EU countries. What I'm saying is that the Orbán government is currently not fit for it in terms of diplomatic, economic and political power, and you are simply fighting with everyone. Well, there is no man to greet the Hungarian Prime Minister! When was the last time a German Chancellor, a French President or a British Prime Minister was here in Parliament? So I'm saying it's not that simple. By the way, I would like to note to Hajnalka Juhász that all I will add to his tasteless remark is that the National Bureau of Investigation has determined that I am the victim of a crime, and that your newspapers have paid me hundreds of thousands of forints and even millions of forints of compensation for the lies you are referring to here. So, please, shame on you. Anyway, congratulations on your child, I'm happy for you, and I wish you health and happiness, but don't bring things here that have nothing to do with this, okay? ? Thank you very much for your attention.
u2023-03-28-80	Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa asked for the floor in a normal time frame, so he's next. Here you go.
u2023-03-28-81	Thank you very much, Madam President. That's because you can't press two minutes in a circle on the KDNP's side. I will not abuse your patience, nor the Secretary of State. I would like to say to Congressman Gréczy that you attacked the Hungarian Presidency again in 2011, Ferenc Gyurcsány called it a destroyer at the time, even as Chairman of the Board of the MSZP Táncsics Foundation. I don't know, those words would tell you something, and before the cloaking, when they were living their time of being addressed to the MSZP, that's when it was. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) How did we arrive at the current Hungarian EU presidency in 2011? In April 2010, the Hungarian electorate decided to replace the infinitely destructive, immoral and corrupt system they represented, which Zsolt Gréczy was also an enthusiastic builder before 2010; when Ferenc Gyurcsány stole the national wealth, they gave it, they turned the national wealth into MSZP private assets with a noble simplicity. At that time, in a bad economic situation, in an incredibly deep moral crisis, we had to organise in a very, very short time a very successful 2011 Hungarian EU Presidency. The fact, ladies and gentlemen, is that this is a feat that, in such a difficult situation in a country in such a deep pit, in such a short time, it has become a Presidency, during which time, honourable Member, in six months we know the speed of the European Union's decision-making in citing signs, we know the system of overgratification for the EU institutions, and in these six months 103 cases have been closed. Of these, 43 were able to conclude at first reading 20 in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure with the European Parliament, six at second reading and one at third reading, and 60 Council and Presidency conclusions were adopted by the European Union during these six months, honourable Member. No other country can produce such impressive numbers within its own Presidency. And all of this when the country was trying to pull itself together from the shock you caused with the 12 percent unemployment, the incredibly high budget deficit, the increased public debt and the ruined economy. The fact is, my honourable fellow Member, that it is an obvious lie that you are talking about these issues here, and I am sorry that you are not interested again in creating a national success story from the second half of 2024 Hungarian Presidency in the EU. I didn't care again! You can threaten us here, you can yell at us, you can tell us why we're saying it's in the national interest. We believe that it is a national interest and, on the basis of all common sense, it is in the national interest that this EU Presidency succeeds. And you're telling me that you're not really interested in this. [[Zsolt Gréczy: I never said that!]] Because you're attacking this, you're turning it inside out. You know, what you're going to do is we already know that shadow press conferences or what they're going to call together, and in the framework of a shadow conference, you're going to tell the EU Heads of Government the lies about Hungary. Well, that's what you do every day in Brussels, your shadow minister, your buddies in the European Parliament, who take someone from your group in handcuffs every day, because they carry cash home in suitcases in various corruption cases. From your faction, the Socialist faction of which Klára Dobrev was the Vice-President of Parliament! They take Klara Dobrev's friends to prison every day because they bring home cash in suitcases. [[13.00]] On the basis of such a picture of the European Union situation, I believe that the European Union should indeed come to a better understanding. The socialist attitude you have always shown here, we know that sooner or later you will always run out of other people's money, this European Union attitude should be set aside. An EU Presidency is for two things. On the one hand, we can show the organisation and development of our country, the topics that we consider important and which we would like to place on our flag. In 2011, the Roma strategy was adopted during the Presidency of the Union, during the Hungarian Presidency, my honourable fellow Member, the whole European Roma strategy, on the basis of which the process of catching up and the process of integration has continued in recent years. We can show our values, we can set the goals that we consider important. Do we have an argument with the European Union? Of course there is. We are not debating Brussels, but we are debating Brussels, honourable Member, in order for the European Union to return to the path that has proved to be the right one, and which has been the good and close cooperation of strong nation states in the past. We just don't want to move towards the vision of your very sleepy, completely unnecessary united European states, which would involve mass migration, war and a great deal of risk. And the fact is, my honourable fellow Member, yes, we call this a national interest because it is. It'd be nice if you could get in this line for once. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-03-28-82	Thank you very much. Welcome, fellow Members. We will continue the debate. Mr Zsolt Gréczy will speak again, please.
u2023-03-28-83	Thank you for the floor. Of course, the Democratic Coalition is interested in the fact that Hungary is once again a successful member of the European Union and that it has a presidency in that semester, giving Hungary a presidency that enhances Hungary's reputation. I have said so, and it is true, of course, that Hungary today is not fit for this task in terms of its diplomatic relations or political relations. By the way, when Congressman Nacsa says that it's cape shooting, well, I'm not sitting in the same group as those who went out of Parliament for the Trianon word, and they said that they were kneeling and praying; you're sitting with these people in a faction and with those who studied and graduated from George Soros's scholarship, and now there are Soros posters all over the country. I don't think it's worth putting anything on Fidesz or Fidesz. So the Democratic Coalition wants Hungary to represent a successful Presidency cycle in the European Union, only the Orbán government is not fit for this. Not Hungary is not fit to represent an appropriate Presidency cycle, but the Orbán government is not fit for it. Thank you very much.
u2023-03-28-84	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else would like to make a proper statement. [[There's no such signal.]] No. Then we'll open the two-minute circle. Congressman Zsolt Gréczy is next... [[Zsolt Gréczy: That was it, thank you.]] No, thank you very much. Then I will ask you to delete the congressman. [[Defiance and intervention from the benches of the governing parties: Only his speech...]] of the two-minute speakers. Congressman Róbert Zsigó from Fidesz.
u2023-03-28-85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I do not want to waste the time of the Parliament or the Secretary of State, nor do I want to take the two minutes. Congressman Gréczy told us earlier not to bring things that don't belong here. And then he spoke twice in two minutes, and he brought me things that didn't belong here. Anyway, go ahead, Congressman. You keep talking about Europe and how good democracy is. I note that when you were on the government, it was true that you did not say that we were not working for the interests of the Hungarian people, that you simply caught yourself and got shot among the peaceful protestors. [[Intercoms from the benches of the governing parties: That's right!]] Swords and attacks on their own people, that was your democracy, honourable Member. And it is not for nothing that the majority of Hungarians say that in the last 12 to 13 years you have not once stood up for the interests of the Hungarian people; this has been the case so far, and I see that this will continue to be the case. We are working to accept this proposal, and we are working to ensure that the next term, when Hungary holds the Presidency of the EU, will be as successful as it was in 2011. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] People can still count on us in this. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-03-28-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. We have also exhausted the two-minute group of speakers. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I am now asking Mr Répássy Róbert, State Secretary, if you would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2023-03-28-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, It is very difficult to avoid the mistake of responding to all provocations, and quite a lot has been said, which could be answered by the government. I would like to state that the aim of this bill is to ensure that Hungary achieves a success by fulfilling the tasks of the President-in-Office of the European Union, so our aim is to ensure that Hungary is successful. The supporter of this success supports this bill and supports the performance of Hungary's Presidency tasks in the European Union. It's that simple. It doesn't have to be complicated. Of course, we may have different views on the European Union, on the Ukrainian-Russian war, all of which may differ, but in this bill it is only about having a successful Presidency. The government wants to create the means to do so and asks the Parliament to support it. So I ask the opposition representatives to consider, and I thank you very much for the opposition speech that, despite all your reservations, they support the bill, because they say that this is a goal that must be accepted in order to succeed. But Congressman Gréczy, I can't leave a sentence unspoken. I think a sentence was very painful for someone who listened to that sentence. As an evaluation of the bill, he said that they would try to act as if Hungary were a normal cultural country. Honourable Congressman, This is the spirituality of the autumn speech. Do you remember what Ferenc Gyurcsány said about his own country, his own country? Remember? I don't want to summon those words. This is exactly the same; what you think of Hungary is exactly what Ferenc Gyurcsány said in the autumn speech. [[Intercoms from the benches of the governing parties: That's right!]] Well, the thing is, I would like to reject this on behalf of all of us, and I would ask you not to harm your own country with such sentences in the midst of the greatest debates. Hungary is a normal cultural country, and this bill is appropriate for this level. To this level of normal culture is what we do for our country. And I ask you once, Minister Judit Varga, have quoted that you should not hate your opponents more than you love your country, always put patriotism first; do not hate your opponents so much, do not lose sight of the purpose of this law, and what is the purpose of the European Union's President-in-Office. Please, honourable Member, as a representative of the opposition's leading party, interpret in your party that the Presidency of the European Union is our common concern. This other event has already been said, as if the Olympic preparation were to be started by hurting the Olympic participants by not being able to work well, and not being able to perform that beautiful mission. Well, the tasks of the President-in-Office of the European Union are also a rather good and important goal. Not the European Union's policy in itself can still be criticised, and we will find a number of objections in the opinion of the institutions of the European Union, but I believe that we need to do this Hungarian task well, and the government is asking the Parliament to give us all the help it needs. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-03-28-88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the draft law on the publication of a military framework agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Turkey until closure. [[13.10]] The government referral is T/3268. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I now give the floor to Deputy Minister Tamás Vargha, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence, author of the item on the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-03-28-89	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Turkey is our country's top strategic partner, relations between the two countries are based on mutual respect. This sympathy and appreciation between the two peoples and the two nations was recorded on 18 December 1923 by the treaty of friendship between the Republic of Turkey and the Kingdom of Hungary, which remained a lasting relationship based on bilateral recognition and trust for a hundred years. Turkey is one of the most important key strategic partners of our country, based on cooperation from the federal system and excellent bilateral military relations. Turkey is an important ally in countering terrorism and has a key role to play in guaranteeing security in the region and in protecting Europe from migration. Hungary also acknowledges Turkey's efforts in this regard. We appreciate the Turkish contribution to the activities of the Hungarian-led EVA increased alertness combat group, and both sides participate in important practices. As a Member of the Parliament of Székesfehérvár, I would like to mention that NATO headquarters in Székesfehérvár are a tangible example of the role that Hungary is making a successful contribution to NATO's collective defence tasks, and Turkey is also one of its important partners. One of the important pillars of our defence cooperation is Hungarian-Turkish bilateral relations, in which intensive development has started in recent years. Turkey is an unavoidable regional factor in both the economy and energy distribution, its stability means not only the security of the immediate region, but also the security of Europe. Think of the peaceful role that Turkey has played in the Ukrainian-Russian war, which, I think, has been an unquestionable result in recent times. The Turkish army is the second largest force of the NATO Alliance, which has gained excellent experience in its area of operations. In recent decades, Ankara has spent considerable money to develop its own military industry, many of which are now world-class. The Kaposvár factory, established by the installation of an armored combat vehicle with various platforms, is forecasting our close cooperation in the defence industry, in which we have further opportunities, and we want and will develop these opportunities. In order to maintain the dynamic development of relations, from the summer of 2023 we will also increase the number of military diplomats stationed in Ankara to two. The purpose of this bill is to announce a military framework agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Turkey. On 9 November 2020, the Turkish party received a request to enter into a new military framework agreement with our country, which would replace the agreement on military training and cooperation between the two parties signed on 25 October 1995. On the Hungarian side, the government will continue its defence industrial cooperation with Turkey in line with the Eastern opening policy, which will provide an appropriate basis for further development of military relations. The priority programmes for these developments justify the conclusion of the general framework agreement, which is based on joint training and practices and the potential for exchange of information and experience. The main purpose of this agreement is to provide a framework for relations between the Parties, develop and contribute to cooperation between the Parties. The Agreement shall enter into force 30 days after the date of receipt of the last written notification by which the Parties notify each other by diplomatic means of the completion of their internal legal procedures necessary for the entry into force of the Agreement. This is, therefore, the proposal that lies before you. I ask you to vote in favour of the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-03-28-90	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Sándor Fazekas, who is speaking here from the pulpit of the platform. We'll wait for Congressman to take over the pulpit. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-03-28-91	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The bilateral relations between Hungary and Turkey are based on solid foundations, mutual trust, and high-level meetings are also regular. Hungary and Turkey are celebrating the centennial anniversary of diplomatic relations next year. This is going to be a very good event. Recently, the good relationship that existed was deepened for a sad reason: the representatives of the Turkish government praised the rapid arrival of the Hungarian rescue teams after the earthquake, their heroicness and the large number of them. In addition, Hungary's donations were welcomed and received with gratitude. Our relationship to the Russian-Ukrainian war is today the framework of the dialogue between Hungary and Turkey on military affairs. In this case, both sides are pro-peace, and in agreement we call for a ceasefire as soon as possible and for the immediate opening of peace negotiations. Turkey has also played a role in resolving the conflict as a mediator in recent times. It is an important point in common that both Turkey and Hungary provide humanitarian assistance to Ukraine. In addition to the Russian-Ukrainian war, however, the bill before us is also an important pillar of the commitment that NATO's 360-degree threats, i.e. threats from all sides, must be given a rapid and effective military response if that is to happen. The long-standing problem in Turkey is the threat of terrorism, against which we can commend our southern partner, and unfortunately we live our daily lives in the immediate neighbourhood of a war-torn country. It is a sad fact that the Hungarians of Transcarpathia are directly suffering from this war. Returning to joint Turkish-Hungarian military cooperation, we also agree on the importance of stability in the Western Balkans. Hungary is present with military force in KFOR, NATO's largest ground mission. Until recently, this was controlled by a Hungarian commander, and in a year's time Turkey will take over the leadership from Italy. The armies of the two countries cooperate in priority areas. Almost immediately since the beginning of the war in Ukraine, Hungary has set up a battle group to strengthen the east wing of NATO, of which Turkey is also a member. In addition, the multi-national headquarters in Székesfehérvár, which is part of NATO's command structure, operate with Turkish participation. Hungary has been developing one of the largest forces in its history since 2017, as part of which we are replacing obsolete technology with NATO-compatible, modern tools. In this development we expect the products of the Turkish defence industry, including the multipurpose, modular and armored Girán war vehicle built on Turkish foundations, of which ten are already serving in the Hungarian Defence Service. This also facilitates the change of culture in the Hungarian Defence Office, which aims to protect Hungary and its citizens if necessary by a modern, courageous, innovative and high-quality force. [[13.20]] The legislative proposal before us is preceded by a request from the Turkish party on 9 November 2020 to conclude a new military framework agreement, which would replace the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on military training and cooperation in the military industry, signed on 25 October 1995. On the Hungarian side, defence industrial cooperation initiatives, joint training and practices, as well as opportunities for information and exchange of experience, initiated with the Turkish party in accordance with the government's Eastern opening policy, justified the conclusion of the general framework agreement, which provides an appropriate basis for further development of military relations. It follows that the Fidesz parliamentary group will support the adoption of this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-28-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Zsolt Gréczy. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-03-28-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, This topic, which is now on the agenda of the Parliament, is extremely important and it is very important for Hungary to be a respected member of the North Atlantic Alliance, of which we have been members since 2001 [[Sic!]] , and one of the important objectives of the change of regime at the time of the 89-90 round was to make Hungary a member of NATO in addition to the European Union. Turkey is one of the most important members of the North Atlantic Alliance, so it is, of course, important that Hungary and Turkey have proper military cooperation and are able to develop. However, I have to make a few comments on the matter that Hungary's situation in NATO does not seem particularly stable either, since it is enough to see how Hungarian diplomacy, let's say with the United States, has been struggling with the strongest forces of the North Atlantic Alliance. It is also necessary to see that this Hungarian-Turkish cooperation does not only concern this military development and partnership, but also the structure of the enlargement of the North Atlantic Alliance. For some strange and mysterious reason, Turkey's position was to support Finland's accession a few weeks ago and not Sweden's, and the conclusion was that the Hungarian position was exactly the same as the Turkish position. Unfortunately, this kind of division is in no one's interest but Vladimir Putin, who is trying to delay NATO expansion as soon as possible. By the way, if Putin hadn't started this war, Sweden and Finland probably wouldn't have thought of it after peaceful neutrality, trying to protect their country from possible Russian aggression in the future by joining this North Atlantic alliance. Moreover, the position of the Democratic Coalition is a shame that Hungary has no longer voted in favour of Sweden's accession to NATO. As a NATO member, it is in Hungary's interest to expand this alliance as much as possible and, of course, Sweden and Finland would greatly strengthen this alliance. Let me make one more comment. There have been reports in recent months that, for example, Kaposvár receives this type of military development. It was announced already in 2021 that this would be done there, but since then there has been no cutting in Kaposvár, where obviously those who would go to work in such a plant are waiting for this opportunity. Finally, I would add that in order for Hungary to gain proper authority within NATO itself, our relationship with the European Union would also have to be normalised. Thank you very much.
u2023-03-28-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-03-28-95	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. I will also respond to Mr Gréczy, because yesterday there was a second-reading debate on the accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO, not today he understood that it is today, he spoke only about it, of course, less about the Turks, about the agreement that is in this law, there was also a general debate on the accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO, yesterday Hungary voted for Finland. The Turks are big enough and capable enough to defend their own position, but the Members have not said that they do not support Sweden's NATO membership. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] They didn't say that, so you're just not telling the truth. If we understand the news correctly, they've made all of this conditional. But how can we be surprised at the speech of the representatives of the Gyurcsány Party, which consciously demolished and destroyed the Hungarian Defence Forces as Prime Minister? ! How can we believe anything to Zsolt Gréczy when the armored vehicles were sold at the price of iron, they gave Iraq weapons that ended up with the Islamic State, when they consciously decommissioned it, they dismantled the various capabilities of the defence when the number of defences decreased, and when the funds were constantly withdrawn from the development of the Hungarian Defence Service, they did not expand it, as we see now! [[Róbert Szigó: That's right!]] I think that it is the historic sin of the governments of 2002-2010 that they weakened and made the Hungarian army one of the weakest forces in NATO. That is why the development of the army has started since 2010. For example, only this year we spend 50 percent more on military development than last year, not in 2010, but as last year, this year we can reach 2 percent of defence spending, which is NATO expectation, and the Hungarian Defence Office is constantly increasing in capacity, technology, technology and human resources. We owe respect and thanks to Hungarian soldiers, whether in international missions, in Hungary or in order to curb migratory pressure, to protect borders, even now, in readiness in a war situation, but I think that we could talk about floods and red sludge disasters in the last 13 years, where Hungarian soldiers, together with law enforcement authorities, have shown great stability. Thank you for that. It's a shame you sold out our weapons, our technology for pennies, and thus misplaced the military's assets. We don't think you should have done that. But what is the purpose of the bill before us? Its aim is to ratify the military agreement between Hungary and Turkey with parliamentary instruments. The Turkish party initiated the conclusion of this new military framework agreement in 2020, replacing the former Hungarian-Turkish bilateral military training and military cooperation agreement concluded in 1995. Such bilateral agreements should be reviewed from time to time, responding to changes and experiences since 1995. We can see that there have been a lot of changes in our world since 1995: the security situation in Europe has changed in different ways, and since 1995, for example, we have been allies in NATO with Turkey, and we must now respond to very different challenges. We therefore welcome Turkey's initiative from the KDNP, as Hungary and Turkey have a close relationship, we are military allies in NATO, and Turkey is also the official candidate of the European Union. The link between our country and Turkey is also characterised by the fact that, following the earthquake in Turkey and Syria in February, Hungarian rescue teams arrived at the scene immediately, among the first. Hungary sent 167 Hungarian experts to Turkey with 29 rescue dogs, who were able to save the lives of 35 people. After that, 120 tonnes of medical medical equipment was delivered by our country to support the functioning of the Turkish health care system. Hungary also provides the necessary financial resources to rebuild the church of St. Peter and St. Paul of the Syrian Orthodox Church in Turkey. (Dr. István Tiba in the notary seat) Replaced by Attila Gelencsér.) There are lively, dynamic economic and trade relations between Hungary and Turkey. In 2022, bilateral trade traffic reached a record, and almost a hundred Turkish companies now employ nearly 2,200 people in Hungary. Turkey, with an advanced, strong army of stable, reliable regional powers in the region, which also plays a key role in halting illegal migration on the Balkan route, therefore the KDNP fraction supports the publication of the military framework agreement between Hungary and Turkey. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-03-28-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Ms Zita Gurmai, representing MSZP. There you go. You have the floor. [[13.30]]
u2023-03-28-97	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! The military cooperation between Hungary and Turkey is not a new development; as a NATO Member State, the forces of the two countries are in an allied relationship, and bilateral agreements are strengthening the military cooperation of the two countries. On military training, as Mr. Secretary of State said, and on the treaty on cooperation in the military industry, the governments of the two countries signed in 95, during the Horn government, by the way, György Keleti was the Minister of Defence at the time. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Thank God, not anymore.]] In terms of military federal systems, Turkey is one of NATO's key military forces, i.e. part of the Western Alliance. As such, it is an important partner, which is also true that Turkey has different views on some issues from other members of the Alliance. The continuation and deepening of military cooperation with NATO alliances is to be welcomed, and any bilateral and multilateral agreement that serves this purpose should therefore be supported. The military framework agreement submitted to Parliament meets this criterion and the MSZP will therefore support the draft law on the publication of the Turkish-Hungarian military framework agreement. Here again, I would like to thank all those who helped us with the Turkish earthquake, obviously not only the government but also many of our fellow citizens. Obviously, this was a very, very harsh attack on the people there, there were terrible conditions, but I think that the Hungarian government and civilians were ready to help in everything. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause.]]
u2023-03-28-98	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear House, Fellow Members! From the group of our country, Mr President Novak is the lead speaker. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-03-28-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The 25-page bill on the announcement of a military framework agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Turkey is supported as a constructive opposition party by the Mi Hazank Movement. How good it would be if, at least once a leap year, the government parties supported some opposition proposal or, for example, the Minister of Defence answered our questions instead of being bullied! As far as our relationship with the Turks is concerned, the President of the Hungarian Movement, László Toroczkai and Dóra Dúró, too, not only had a meeting with the Ambassador, but after the earthquake in Turkey, we also announced and organised a relief action, setting up the capacities of our own movement in their service. I think solidarity has a place in such cases, and there is a place for military cooperation on a fair basis. This framework agreement is a contract between equal parties, as opposed to the 2019 US-Hungarian agreement, which exempts US soldiers from Hungarian jurisdiction, for example, in the case of crimes committed here. This is quite a shame for the other parties that supported it. We have a closer relationship with the Turks through the Turk Council, but after this framework agreement, the Turks cannot stand in our country without the permission of the Hungarian authorities, as unfortunately the Americans continue to do. The Convention would essentially develop relations in the field of training, and cooperation in the military industry is particularly desirable. The Turks manufacture modern and relatively cheap military equipment. Consider an equally painful example of this. The Government of Hungary has recently announced that the Hungarian Army, the Turkish Gidrans, will receive new armored combat vehicles. However, a few years ago, they announced with a great chinadrat that they had developed a Hungarian family of light penguins called Komondor. Komondor's fields of use, armour protection, driving properties and the like are otherwise similar to Gidráns. Why didn't the army finally order from the Hungarian military vehicle? Well, they didn't officially justify it, but it was talkative that they quietly gave some converted Komondor to the fire department. The Komondor project was a very well-communicable and easy to escape project. Unfortunately, the Komondor is no match for Gidrán, the Hungarian Gamma sells chemical protection equipment, and they put something together by hand, whereas the Turkish Nurol and the Turkish military industry have decades of experience, and their products are actually used in combat. At the team rehearsals, Komondor proved completely unfit for any military use, not by accident they essentially made a fire engine; let's say, armored firefighter, although I do not know what this is necessary in Hungary. On the other hand, Gitran was the best in the category, and in Slovakia it was the best in ten different vehicles. Moreover, the production of Komondor would not have been much more domestic than that of Gidrán, since it would have been legised from parts purchased from abroad, so to speak. However, the real question is that the military needs such a number of this category, which has been specifically optimized for the asymmetric warfare conditions of expedition wars. In addition to the basic version that can be used for patrols, it is also planned to organize mine launcher, artillery reconnaissance and similar versions in the military. However, it would be much more important than Gidran to organize the planned Nomad and to produce it in Hungary. Our little team density, let's say, makes it impossible both for manoeuvring mechanized warfare and for warfare based on a coherent defense system. At present, the doctrine of mobile warfare based on easy teams, based on rapid tactical mobility, can provide effective, independent defence activities. Dear Parliament, So after March 15th, let me lay down some groundwork here. The Hungarian Defence Forces must not be the expendable aide team of the Atlantist military alliance, the countless sons of the Hungarian nation, in war for foreign interests. It's time to break this bad tradition. Unfortunately, today, only Mi Hazank represents the demands of the young men of March 1848 from among the parties, not to take our Hungarian soldiers abroad, to take the foreigners away from us. We also oppose the participation of the Hungarian Defence Forces in foreign occupations in the service of foreign interests. From the billions spent on the occupations carried out in Afghanistan, Iraq, Mali, and who knows where the currently encrypted number of military troops have been deployed, more attractive domestic remuneration and more modern equipment should be provided, more serious domestic military exercises for our soldiers. Instead of the modular development of forces focusing on foreign services, the National Defence Programme of the Hungarian Movement advocates the overall weapon planning of the defence of the country. Unfortunately, on my written question, the Minister did not deny my knowledge that a soldier who does not wish to serve outside his country could not receive a rank higher than that of the Lieutenant Colonel in the military. Shame on you for that. The stationing of foreign forces in Hungary and making our country a target of Russian forces have unfathomable consequences. Why does the government make Hungary an area of foreign march with NATO troops, so to speak, temporarily stationed in our country? After the rhetorical question and after a series of non-responses, let me say once again that our contractual obligation to be a member of NATO would only be to contribute to the defence of a Member State, but Ukraine is not a member of NATO. However, unfortunately, they also support our participation in the war in such an indirect way. On the other hand, the Hungarian Movement opposes the military support of the Soviet Ukraine and the service of the American interest, which pursues a repressive policy against the Hungarian national part of Transcarpathia. How much does our NATO involvement cost, such as the obscene occupation in Afghanistan, or how many Hungarian soldiers are currently serving in foreign countries around the world? According to the Ministry of Defence, these are classified information, a Member of Parliament or a Hungarian citizen do not want to find out. [[13.40]] Well, it's a pretty big shame, and this encryption policy is getting to the top. However, let us say that Hungary has a responsibility that, instead of independence, unfortunately, our country has become a foreign military march area, and we can carry arms to Ukraine, say, through Romania and Slovakia, so that the government can leave such a legal loophole for itself, and say that there is no shipment of weapons coming from Hungary to Ukraine, let us say, only a shipment of weapons coming from Hungary to Slovakia, so that it can go from there to Ukraine and even now fighter planes. In fact, we're helping this war with fighter jets. We officially only defended Slovakia with Hungarian Gripenek, while Slovaks gave their own fighter jets to Ukraine. So this is what this Hungarian collaborator defence policy promotes. On the other hand, the Hungarian Movement opposes Hungary's participation in the war of this kind. According to a government decision, the deployment of foreign NATO combat groups is now allowed throughout our country in response to the U.S.-Russian war in Ukraine. However, abandoning Hungary's independence and making Hungary an area of military marching is unacceptable, so Mi Hazank Movement demands free and neutral Hungary, because foreign forces have no place in Hungary, because Hungary belongs to the Hungarians. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-03-28-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Gréczy of the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-03-28-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I just want to sort out a few things that have been said. One is that it is said here that Gyurcsány pair. Ferenc Gyurcsány is the party's president, the party's name is Democratic Coalition. I don't say to the Christian Democratic People's Party that they're Semyen. A little more respect. One of them. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: More respect? Defiance from the pro-government ranks.]] The other thing is... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: More respect for Gyurcsány?]] I said, show some respect. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Now Zsolt Semyen has more respect, should I ask the question? Okay, so that's one of my comments. My second point is that, during the Gyurcsány government, Hungary was a respected member of NATO and a recognised ally in both NATO and the European Union. So what you said here was that the damage was done then, well, the Hungarian Defence Force was a part of NATO, and about the American ambassador at the time, the head of Hungarian diplomacy did not say that it was of any interest what the American ambassador said, is not very friendly, since we are talking about NATO alliances, and Viktor Orbán was able to name Ambassador Pressman at the ambassador meeting as pressman. Obviously, the President of the United States or the Pentagon has been informed of this particular address. If you believe that these strengthen Hungary's judgment within NATO, then I think you are fundamentally mistaken. Hungary's NATO relations are becoming unstable precisely because our relations with the European Union are unstable, and it was Viktor Orbán who asked Vladimir Putin to quote Viktor Orbán that he wanted Vladimir Putin to leave NATO. However, I think the term, well, let me put it this way, would express treason with your use of the word. Thank you very much.
u2023-03-28-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask my fellow Members, who else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would now like to ask Mr Tamás Vargha, Deputy Minister, as rapporteur, if you would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go.
u2023-03-28-103	Yes, thank you very much. Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank you for the supporting contributions from all parts of the horseshoe, and thank you very much for taking the opportunity to thank the Hungarians who participated and helped in the earthquake in Turkey. I think that might be one of the most important things that has been said. Interesting findings have also been made. I think it is very difficult to talk about the comments of Congressman Gréczy and it is very difficult to categorize, but that a representative talks about NATO without knowing which year, month and on which day Hungary joined NATO [[Zsolt Gréczy: In 2001 as I said! Interviews from Fidesz and KDNP: 1999! Nacsa Lőrinc: And he even proudly says stupid things!]] In 1999, Mr President, it is very difficult to argue with you, you are not aware of the fundamental facts, and you will even repeat it. So it's hard to argue if the congressman isn't prepared. As a linguist, allow me to say that it is not respect that you use the word "speak of something," it is not a sign of respect. So if you demand respect from someone, you should speak respectfully of others. When you say we're going to have seven-and-a-half months, it's not the voice of respect, so it's got to be... [[Zsolt Gréczy: This is strange from the mouth of a fidesz!]] There's been a lot of talk. Mr Zsigo said in the previous presentation that you required us to talk about the proposal, and that you were not the one who spoke about the proposal. My fellow Member Nacsa has already told us what we think and what we have done about the accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO. This is not the subject of this proposal, nor is it how and under what conditions we manufacture, we will manufacture Gidran fighting vehicles in Kaposvár, nor is it the subject of the proposal that, if not Gidran, we, and what investments we should start or continue in the future. I would like to tell my colleague, Mr President, that the Minister was here yesterday and he answered your questions, and he gave us a credible statement on what we think about the issue you raised yesterday. I would also like to stress that Hungary does not deliver weapons and does not send soldiers to Ukraine. It's a fine slide you've told me. We do not cross the borders of Hungary and Ukraine, and we are doing this because we are committed to this, and we are protecting our Hungarian brothers in Transcarpathia. So thank you very much for the supporting contributions, and I would ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-03-28-104	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, notary of the Parliament, has applied for a post-meeting speech from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2023-03-28-105	Mr President, Dear House, As a right-wing representative, I am rather distant from the IMF, the World Bank. I do not like it when our country approaches these organisations, because we have very bad historical experiences. At the same time, the World Bank has a collection, a statistic, which, I believe, contains serious, awareness-raising and brutal data on our country. In December 2022 Hungary was unfortunately included in the list of world-wide food prices where food prices were growing the fastest, and, unfortunately, Hungary also appeared after Zimbabwe, Lebanon, Venezuela, Argentina, Sri Lanka, Rwanda and Suriname with its 44 percent increase in food prices. We are talking about Europe's former pantry, a country with excellent agricultural conditions, and it is a tragedy that EU record inflation almost doubles the rise in food prices. If we look at what countries have unfortunately been preceded by this list, we can see that food prices in Burundi, Ethiopia, the war-torn Ukraine have not increased as much in the period under consideration as in Hungary. During this time, the egg increased by 79 percent in Hungary, the price of bread increased by 71 percent, and the price of milk increased by more than 53 percent. I would be in a reproof for a brutal and forbidden illustration, and there is no one on the pro-government side that I can show the graph to, but we see more than a double Hungarian price increase compared to the EU food average, which is projected to the level of the graphs. The amazing thing about all this is that every government has an opportunity to alleviate these burdens, typically by reducing the 27 percent EU record rate of VAT, and for some reason the Government of Hungary has not even thought this through. [[13.50]] First, for some products, it selectively reduced VAT to 5-7 percent of an average consumer basket, and in a few years it chose one or two selectively, and said that we should look at their VAT reduction. Now, the government that selectively reduced VAT tells us that it's actually a bad way to do it, and he can't control it in any way. Already before 2018, we have drawn the government's attention to the fact that there is a good method of control, if VAT is reduced, it can be guaranteed that there will also be a real price reduction, and this is an online database that monitors the price changes of the products and product groups and, where appropriate, indicates a colour code, and if there is no market process, only speculation, in which case the Hungarian Competition Authority may intervene, punish and order the market. For years we have listened to the fact that this method is not really a good method, and the VAT reduction itself is not good either, and now, again, more than five years after we put the solution on the table for the first time, the press reports that the price monitoring system is coming, and I would add that the Hungarian Competition Authority is right to initiate the establishment of a price monitoring system precisely because they have realised that the multi-enterprises that have otherwise been promoted in recent years are now using consumer confidence, and they have now come to realize that in many European countries the competition authority is actively dealing with food price increases. In Greece, Germany and other places, authorities also use different price monitoring, price-clearing applications. So it turns out that the solution proposed by our community can not only be used but also exists in several places. It has caused invaluable damage to the fact that for years the VAT reduction of basic foods has not been exceeded, since there is a control mechanism on the table to check that this will also result in a real price reduction. But if you've taken our old idea and put it on the table, do it right, do it completely! Our expectation is, therefore, to reduce VAT on basic foods and very important articles for raising children, to zero VAT where appropriate, and to continuously check with the said online database which wholesalers and multi-companies are the ones that abuse consumer confidence. In the middle of the digital age, the people's anger created by the cheated consumers, if they fall on companies that abuse confidence that make themselves like them, will be a much greater punishment than any economic competition law fine, but I will not hold you back from any of them. Our request, rather our call, is that if, after all this delay, they want to do something about this system, at least do it right and make all the demands made by the good guys in the last few years. Thank you for your attention.
u2023-03-28-106	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. An independent Member, Mr. Peter, has applied for a post-meeting speech. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-03-28-107	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues! Well, it's a problem, isn't it? A Swiss journalist recently asked Prime Minister what he thought is the best news of our day. And indeed, our chief priest no longer answered what he lied to the Hungarians before the elections. He no longer said that the best news was that we would soon catch up with Austria. No! He thinks it's the best news today. - : There is life outside the Earth. Wow. Well, it would be better if you looked at what it was like, because there may be life outside the Earth, but the fact that there is less and less on Hungarian soil is certain. Colleagues, if it's up to you, do you know when the Hungarian standard of living will catch up with Austria? If the Hungarian people move to Austria. Because the standard of living is rising out there, and poverty, prices, and corruption are rising here. Out there, you know from your wallet that he's living well, and back home, from a billboard. There's a big difference. Are you surprised that Hungarians are losing weight? Colleagues, how could Hungarians not lose weight, so where should people have children? Next to the line? Where Mom and Dad take 12 hours, or the rent they can't even pay, or take 20-year-old housing loans without knowing what's gonna happen next, let alone 20 years from now? Colleagues, not everyone was born to Orbán Rachel, that Dad would take care of everything with stolen money. Do you know when more children will be born here? When there's something to it, and when there's a place to it. We need normal pay and affordable housing. No one's here today. We've got to replace it with hunger and rent and 27 percent VAT and record inflation and total incalculability. And, you know, maybe the last one's the biggest problem. The fact that you can't plan in this country, you don't know what tomorrow will bring, you don't know how stupid the government will come up with to drag you through it. National tobacco store, national casino, national fireplace? What's next? Who can say that today? When you go to bed early, you get excited about getting government information tonight, and what they're gonna report there, how stupid it is. Remember, the government-priced fuel was killed in half an hour at 11:00 p.m. The guy who went to bed early that day just blinked at the gas station the next morning about what happened here last night. And I remember you did the same thing, exactly the same thing to private pension funds. We can remember that. With a pen stroke, the Hungarian people were deprived of a private pension fund savings of HUF 3000 billion in a blink of an eye. No one's known where all this money is ever since. So what's next? The apartment, the bank account? What else do you need? What? We know the answer: everything. For the thief knows no measure, the thief steals as long as we let him. Now, that is precisely why the People's Party Movement demands that we have a new election in Hungary, so we do not allow thieves to steal any more, because if we do so, there will be nothing left of our country by 2026, but literally nothing outside of stadiums and battery factories. And then the best news will be that there is life outside the Earth. Let there be life on Hungarian soil, let the government perish, let the people win, justice for the Hungarians!
u2023-03-28-108	The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr János Bencze. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-03-28-109	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, There is also room for a small philosophy in Parliament, we see that we have exceeded the date of 25 March, we have reached the 33rd anniversary of the first free election in 1990. It is a symbolic number, and we can say that our change of regime has entered a Christian age, and it is worth looking over the last 33 years to see what has happened in this country. In 1990, I was 17 years old, and I started out as an enthusiastic young man, and I thought I was going to grow up in a country where I would be 50 years old in a country that would catch up with Austria, or maybe it would pass because we were so naive and happy. The accounting of the last 33 years can essentially consist of the fact that the system-shifting governments, which still govern today, have lived up to the full national wealth of the system-shifting parties. In private pockets, our industry was removed, our agriculture was removed, our agricultural manufacturing industry was removed, and in 2023 we came to the point that one of the greatest achievements of the Kádár system, the socialist planning management, was only now in the form of price caps, the price imposed by the authorities and the state. It would be worth asking everyone in themselves if that's what we wanted. From the best country of the former socialist camp in economic condition, we became the leaders of the countries of the former socialist camp. What can we now choose in Hungary? And here the sad thing is that in the whole Hungarian rural development and development of the country there are also questionable voices on the pro-government side, the last of which is János Lázár, who has clearly explained what has happened in Hungary, and my opinion is the same. There is an imaginary line in Hungary, if we connect it to Debrecent Kecskemét, Veszprém and further towards Győr, we will basically get the northern industrial zone of Hungary, and under this line, nothing has happened in the last 33 years, but what was also gone, is ruined. No manufacturing, no industry, no nothing. I'm from Tolna County, we have an empty promise in Tolna County called Paks II. It's literally an empty promise, because it's an empty plot, surrounded. So I'm asking you, 33 years after the change of regime, is that what we wanted? Those who changed the system in '90, did they want this? Is that what we wanted? We wanted free media, a free country where we can manifest ourselves freely, and there are, in fact, so many differences in the standard of living and property in the shops on the Austrian and Hungarian border, but even beyond the Tiszán, that the Austrian border is just an imaginary dividing line. It has not become an imaginary dividing line, and even the Romanian border will soon be this imaginary dividing line, because we have achieved that they are living much better, both east and west of us. And what happens in Hungary? What can a countryman who doesn't work in this industrial zone do, not live there? Well, he's either wandering off, or he's willing to take the life he needs. It takes his life to get on at dawn; some travel 4-6 hours a day to work 8 hours and return home. Do you think this is life? You think we voted for this in '90, that's what we chose? That's not what we chose. And what's at the moment on the political palette? Well, if we look around, I see as an active politicalist I've been politicizing for the last 12 years that we didn't want that. [[14.00]] For 2024 and 2026 in advance, if the trends confirmed by the current statistics remain, I ask you who we can choose. Well, we can choose the team of two senior SGC secretaries: either Fidesz or DK. I ask everyone: in 1990, did we want these people to return to political life? That these people, their parties and their supporters will now dictate the future of our children? I've decided not to. At the time, I decided, and I still do, and I recommend to all thinking Hungarian citizens that you look at the last 33 years. If necessary, write it on a white paper if you do not believe the loss and profit of your eyes and decide how you would like to proceed along this line: you want to vote for the shadows of the past or try to build a country we started in 1990. Thank you.
u2023-03-28-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work, thank you for keeping the minutes, thank you to the technical staff for your help, thank you to the staff of the Parliamentary Office. Parliament will resume its meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed. Thank you for the help of the notaries.
