u2023-06-16-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down. Representatives of Momentum and DK are not in the room. There's a sponge and a box of chalk on the cabinet's table.]] Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome all of you and welcome all of you who are monitoring our meeting today. The first special session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that Győzsef Vinnai and Dániel Z. Carpathian Members will be present as notaries for my assistance. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Government is the 35th Parliamentary Act. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the Parliament has initiated an extraordinary meeting to be held today. The letter and its attachment were all available on our website. Dear Parliament, Today we also remember martyrs of the 1956 Revolution and War of Independence. It's 59/02. According to Parliamentary Resolution No.56, our commemoration will be held in the presence of the historic flags, among them the national flag, which became a symbol of the 1956 Revolution and War of Independence. I ask you all to stand up and honor the historic flags, the national flag and the memory of the heroes. [[The people in this room stand up. The fanfares speak, the commanding officer comes in through the entrance to the President's pulpit, and requests permission from the chairman in the middle of the Chamber to import historic flags and the 1956 national flag, who grants permission. In addition to the sound of the fanfares, the flags will march on both sides of the presidential pulpit.]] Please take your seats. [[The people in the room are sitting down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, In the lives of all nations, there are historical moments, fate-changing events that later become a part of national identity based on common memory. Yet, it is extremely rare around the world when one day it becomes a double symbol. 16 June is such a dual symbol for Hungarians, which enshrines XX. The political changes of the second half of the century. The culmination of the reprisals following the 1956 revolution, the re-incarnation of the country, is the same symbol as the Hungarian collapse of communism and the rebirth of democratic Hungary. Unfortunately, few of the heroes of our October revolution are with us now, but many of us still have hundreds of thousands of people among us, whose members buried a raging system in the field of Heroes on June 16, 1989. With the granting of final justice after three decades, the martyrs and victims of the revolution were also symbolically rehabilitated. Sándor Rácz, speaking on behalf of the Hungarian youth, and Viktor Orbán speaking on behalf of the Hungarian youth, as were the other speakers of the event and the crowd of commemorators, could only hope that their courage and determination would become one of the first symbolic steps in the fight to regain national independence and freedom. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to Imre Nagy and his martyrs, as on 16 June 1989, let us also remember together all the known and unknown Hungarians, heroes and victims who sacrificed everything in 1956 for the better fate of our country. Never forget: if we keep the memory of heroes, their actions and ideas will live. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]] Please stand up and salute the withdrawal of the historic flags and the national flag. [[The people in this room stand up. The commander of the decorative guard comes forward, and the flags leave the meeting room at the sound of the fanfares.]] Thank you very much. Take your seats. [[The people in the room are sitting down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The pre-meeting speeches will follow. Mr Máté Kanász-Nagy applied for a pre-meeting speech from the LMP Group. [[Some representatives of the MSZP consult each other.]] I would like to ask my fellow Members in MSZP to allow Member Matthew Kanász-Nagy to make his speech before the agenda.
u2023-06-16-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Today we are going to talk a lot about the situation of teachers, how the Hungarian government leaves them alone, how it does not ensure the substantial wage increase that they would have the money for, the source, but these funds are being spent in support of battery factories and car manufacturers, and how they want to punish them, how they will get the vengeance law they will receive because they have rightly protested over the past period. As I see, they have been given sponges, perhaps with these sponges this law could be abolished; and they have also received chalks to write a new one that provides a real wage increase. I'd like to talk about another matter here before the agenda, which may be possible if we talk about who the government leaves and how it leaves itself, how it won't help if there's trouble. I would like to talk to you about a village in Heves County, Recsk, where there has been a major natural disaster last week. After the heavy rains, Hunyadi Street in Recsk was washed away by a muddy flood, and washed this mud, this mud layer, and clay mud from the mountain above Hunyadi Street. The fact is, there are many aspects of this disaster. We could talk about the poor settlement, the abandoned settlements, which were in a very difficult situation at the time of the change of regime, and since then no one has helped them. This government has been in power for 13 years, no substantial help to small settlements. We could talk about the mayor's decision that made it possible during the Covid period to make a one-man decision on a huge investment, opening an andesite mine, giving his consent. This raises the questions of participation and democracy: how strong is democracy where decisions can be taken over the heads of locals and local residents that they are not asked about, are not asked at all, but are significantly influenced by their lives? We could talk about the state of environmental protection and nature protection in Hungary. How normal is it that someone lives somewhere, and in their immediate vicinity, really opens a mine a few meters away? I've been to this mine several times, I've been talking to the residents, you have to imagine that we're practically going to the gardens of the houses, or we're looking out the window, and there's this mine right there; it's really a few meters away. [[9.10]] These people have experienced the sounds of test explosions and rock blasts in recent times, which they were afraid of, they experienced increased cargo traffic, constant noise pollution, and the constant fear of what would happen if a serious rain occurred. They were talking about this earlier, that's what they told me, and I was here in Parliament, and they said that there would be no problems, strict rules, there wouldn't be any disasters, and I was just in the mood. Well, I'd like to point out that this disaster happened last week. This is obviously not independent of man's activity, which causes climate change, the unpredictable rains are also due to this, and we have to ask the question: that this muddy price has washed away Hunyadi Street, and there are now a dozen families who have had to move out and are living in emergency shelters, does it have any connection with opening the mine? I was told by the local residents that they saw where and how this muddy price came down. Is there a connection between harsh interference in nature and this disaster? Because from the top of this mountain, the woody bushy cover had been wiped out, which might and could have been a conditional way of touching this flood. As a result of the mine opening, a dandelion, a back wall, was built up on the mountain that local residents said was afraid of. Is there a connection? Is this the mud washed off by the water? This week I asked Sándor Pintér, Minister of Interior, to be responsible for disaster management, and this is a disaster situation to investigate: there is a link between the opening of the mine and the suffering of these people, the disaster that occurred, and how will they manage this situation in the long term, how will they help Hunyadi Street? A lasting, safe solution is needed here. No one's been able to come up with that before. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of MSZP and Dialogue.]]
u2023-06-16-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. Before I give the floor to the answer: Congressman Máté Kanász-Nagy mentioned the sponges and chalks that were placed, I mean, the Members of the Momentum placed me on the bench without permission. I think it would have been much better for you to attend the celebration of our meeting today, which was about 1956, one of the wonderful highlights of our national past. For them, it didn't seem important. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I give the floor to Deputy Minister Zsófia Koncz, State Secretary.
u2023-06-16-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to start by saying that you made a statement that the Hungarian government does not address the Hungarian countryside. I am very pleased that Congressman considers it important to visit rural settlements once in a while, but the fact is that I think that there are very many people living there within the governing parties; I myself, and 42 settlements belong to my constituency, 38 settlements of less than five thousand people. The Hungarian government has launched a unique programme with the program "Hungarian Village" which I really believe is an incredible help to these settlements in connection with the renovation of roads, sidewalks, institutions, kindergartens and schools. So I would like to refuse to say that the Hungarian Government does not care about the Hungarian countryside, because we are allies of the Hungarian countryside, and we are doing everything we can to make living in the countryside good and to make rural life as attractive as possible. So I'd like to start with that. Not to mention that I don't know, Mr President, before 2010, he had dealt with these public ideas, and he was interested in public life, because if he visited rural settlements before 2010, I think he could see where we had come from, and we can report record figures in terms of employment and unemployment rates, and record lows in terms of unemployment. These are very important. By the way, Mr President, you mentioned an important question. The authorities will act on this. I think it would be worth waiting for this process here, and it is not in the mood for this case, the crack case. We have already discussed the opening of the mine here, Congressman. I would like to point out once again that, as an independent regulatory authority, the Supervisory Authority for Regulated Activities is acting as a mine supervisor, and taking into account the interests of the public, the environmental impact assessment procedure has examined the worst conditions for all installations to be protected in the context of the expected noise effects arising from the mine operation and has established the most stringent noise protection standards. Congressman was concerned about these settlements, on which you believe the Hungarian Government has done nothing in recent years. I would like to point out that, according to Eurostat data, between 2015 and 2021, the proportion of people in severe material and social deprivation in Hungary is falling by nearly 60 percent, by more than the EU average. This goes well beyond the EU trend. So I think that we have taken a lot of steps in this area in the past. However, the question that really concerns all Hungarians is the question of reducing the rent itself. I have already wanted to ask Mr President here on this point, because what we see here is that, basically, Brussels has launched another attack on the reduction of the rent. The main issue here is that the Commission has made its country-specific recommendations and there it says that the government should abolish energy support measures in Hungary. This is what he asks, i.e. that Hungary abolish the reduction of the rent. I would very much like to hear from the LMP, Member, about your views on this. Because if you are concerned about families, it is a very good thing, but this is really a measure that concerns these families and all Hungarian families, and I do not really know what the concrete position of the LMP is. You have not voted in favour of amending the budget, which, by the way, provides the Hungarian people with the support for the rent, but what is perhaps even so sad is that the pro-peace resolution has not been supported. I think that we are living in such difficult times today, that there is a war situation that is really difficult for all Hungarian families and that we need to work together here. And if you take a subject out, I think it's worth talking about the whole picture, about what would lead to peace, by the way. In this, I would like to ask you to do everything you can. I wanted to take one more case here, the case of environmental protection, because I think we talk about it a lot, a lot of times. I would like to challenge the fact that the LMP did not participate as the sole parliamentary party and did not comment on the debate on the proposals for environmental legislation at the Parliament plenary session. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell. Intercoms.]] I think that if there was something to be said about, and you guys were in the mood to replace it, I would ask the LMP faction to speak in these matters, to be here at least, and then we can work together to achieve environmental and climate policy expectations in Hungary in all respects. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-16-4	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear House, Madam Szabó Timea, representative of the Dialogue, has applied for a speech before the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-06-16-5	Ladies and gentlemen, Today is a day of shame and revenge. It's a day of shame, because, despite all the protests, you've been cowardly submitting that Vengeance Act today. [[Bence Rétvári: Not today!]] The one that beats the future of our children with an axe. In addition, they do this in a cowardly way because they have hermetically closed the parliament so that a parent, a educator, a student wouldn't accidentally have to look them in the eye and account for why this law of vengeance was filed. Cowardly government, revenge management is what you do. And why is it called the Vengeance Act? After all, this is all about you taking revenge on those teachers who, ten years ago, since 2013, have been asking for a minimal increase in their wages, asking you not to pay 64 percent of their salaries, but, say, 100 percent of their wages. [[9.20]] Why are teachers, teachers, only 60 percent of other graduates? In 2016, László Palkovics promised that next year the average fee for teachers would be increased to 80 percent, but this did not happen. You have not yet lied about Brussels money, but you are just lying about it, even though you are spending the same amount on buying the office building of István Tiborcz Bosnyák Square as you could increase the wages of teachers by 45 percent. This is the real godfather government, this cowardly government you're doing. And how was the teacher entitled to a raise? Here is a European comparison, ladies and gentlemen. Here is the last European comparison for the average wage of Hungarian teachers. You can't even fit it on the paper! Do you know where he is? The average wage of Hungarian teachers is located between Serbia and Northern Macedonia. Now, that's why you're taking revenge on them, so they can't be raised, because you don't want to raise your wages and keep your mouths shut, so don't protest. Shame on you! One educator recently wrote that he would bring home a net wage of HUF 178 thousand each month with the allowance, and at the end of the month there would be no warm food for his children. Compared to this, Viktor Orbán's salary is 5 million 700 thousand forints, which is 30 times the salary of a teacher. Shame on you! You say it's not a law of vengeance. No, it's just that from here on out, anyone who criticizes education gets kicked out, gets transferred to another school, can listen to their phones, can look at their laptops. Shame on you! Mátyás Rákosi licks his ten fingers compared to what you are doing to the teachers. [[Mátrai Márta: I still remember what was in that period.]] I'm afraid not, but you may remember that. [[Bence Rétvári: Congresswoman, what style is this?]] That's your idea after 13 years of government. In the fourth two-thirds, that's what they had in mind about educators. Revenge, revenge, revenge! Of course, it will be possible to say that I do not know that Bence Rétvári will answer that, that we look down on the manual work, because that is what he said to my fellow Member, Tamás Meltár. [[Bence Rétvári: Yes, because he talked about them in the same style!]] Who looks down on manual labor when they don't pay for the insurance of firefighters and policemen? Who looks down on people who risk their lives every day? Can't BM pay them 300 million for the insurance? If they die, if they're in an accident, they'll pay for it themselves, and then you'll be here talking about honoring manual labor? Shame on you! It's not enough that they're mean, they're mean, they're even lying all the time! [[Bence Rétvári: You! Angel! Szabó Timea is an angel on earth!]] It's a disgusting godfather government that's going on here. Orbán Rachel and the children of Kálmánka climbed up are so scared of the fourth two thirds that they need to be taken to international school, right? That's because you're getting your own kids out of public education because you know it's broken down. Orbán Rachel can study in Lausanne for millions, and Hungarian children should learn in broken schools? Shame on you! This cowardly godfather government will be over! They know that young people won't let them ruin their future. It's dictatorship! It's the bullshit with the ax! That's enough! Young people will rebel, and then you will have a very ugly end, and this cowardly government will also have a very ugly end. [[Eszter Debate: Are you threatening me? Are you threatening me again?]]
u2023-06-16-6	Madam Head of the Group, anger is the worst possible advisor. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary. Here you go. [[Miklós Soltész: CIA agent! Szabó Timea: You're the agents. You're supposed to raise the wages of teachers. Shame on you! Bence Rétvári: What style is this?]]
u2023-06-16-7	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and
u2023-06-16-8	It's been two minutes! [[Bence Rétvári: We say that you despise everyone because you talk like that! Szabó Timea: CIA, right? Bence Rétvári: You can't talk to people like that! What kind of style is that?]] I'm warning you. If I warn you again, I'll exclude you from today, and you cannot participate in any work today. Please stick to the rules of Parliament. Mr. Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary.
u2023-06-16-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Firstly, I would like to remind the House that negotiations have been taking place for months on the draft new career law. More than twenty consultations were held between the Government and the representative bodies. Otherwise, left-wing parties were invited to several meetings, and there were cases where they didn't show up. There were times when three out of seven invited left parties took part in the meeting, and in the end there were not even so many left. It is worth clarifying the basic purpose. The goal is to give teachers appreciation and students competitive knowledge. Everything has to be subject to this. The new career law creates a public education employment relationship and creates the legal framework for the biggest wage increase in recent decades. Because, in vain, you claim, honourable Member, that there is no dispute between us that much more wage increases are needed. The question is just how, besides the existing resources, other resources could be put into service, such as EU funds, which, when they arrive, the average salary of teachers could be close to 800 thousand forints by 2025. The new law also standardises the number of days off, which it would record in 50 days. This 50 days isn't less than the previous one, it's more. And of these 50 days, the director can only have 15 days. The proposal also provides for the possibility that if a teacher cares more about students, he can earn more. This type of flexibility has not been possible so far. On the basis of the proposal, much more people will receive a Jubilee Prize. As regards the possible extension of the academic year, it is important that it can only be done for an irrefutable reason if education is therefore impossible at national level. For example, if an epidemic occurs, as has unfortunately been the case. With regard to the issue of replacement: this can only be done within a given walk, in certain living situations, only with the contribution of the teacher, so that the employer recognises the additional costs involved financially. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I have three points for you. If you are really interested in the situation of teachers, do not stay away from the discussions on the proposals, or if you stay away, then do not say that there was no dialogue. If you settle for protests, I ask you not to cross the boundaries of legality, not to initiate provocations. For example, pushing protestors on the police force by the president of a left-wing party does not help teachers in any way. Thirdly, if they really consider the issue of teachers to be important, they should not undermine the arrival of EU money and, above all, not demand new conditions so that these funds arrive later. Really, we really can't understand how left-wing politicians earning 5-6 million are working in Brussels to prevent teachers from earning 800,000 forints, and their fellows sitting here will join in quiet or not so quietly. This isn't about teachers for you, it's about something completely different. Either way, the government is committed to giving all Hungarian teachers the support they deserve in the form of wage increases and in all other possible ways. This is how growing generations can gain competitive knowledge. We know we have work to do, we have a lot of work to do, and I think it's too important a matter of education to make it a waste of day-to-day party political battles. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-16-10	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman István Apáti has applied for a speech before the agenda from the group of our countries. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-06-16-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to ask or question you about gas prices, electricity prices and, above all, food prices and related inflation. It is no exaggeration to say that the payment of gas and electricity bills to most Hungarian families is becoming increasingly difficult, and filling with good quality, healthy food is almost a luxury in Hungary. Let's start with gas and electricity prices, because it is difficult to understand that you promised or said that you would buy Russian gas at a fifth price at the beginning of 2022, and then information has come to light that says that you bought gas at five times the price. And now the world market price for natural gas is below the so-called reclaimed, reduced price of 110 forints per cubic meter, compared to which you have not changed the rules that a cubic meter of gas can continue to be bought at a price of 747 forints above 1729 cubic metres per year, of nearly EUR 3, EUR 2,5 euro. [[9.30]] What is the reason when the price of gas on the world market has decreased by not increasing the preferential quota or reducing the price of gas above the quota very significantly when, I repeat, the world market price for gas is already below 110 HUF/m2? The same is the case or similar in the case of electricity, because it is difficult to understand that the electricity or electricity price that Paks produces for 12 forints is 36 forints per year and 70 forints above, but businesses often pay more than 200 forints for a kilowatt hour of electricity. I will help you with your analysis or evaluation: unfortunately, there is a lot of money going to Lőrinc Mészáros, because most of the value of the electric bill is not the price of electricity, it is not the price of electricity, but the system usage fee that beats up this price to Mr Mészáros's delight. What reasons do you have for not being able to reduce this? But the biggest problem for Hungarian families is food inflation, which was 44 percent in January, and even in May we see 33.5 percent data, which means that most Hungarian consumers, most Hungarian buyers, do not feel that the price rises will stop. I would like to give you a rarely mentioned, rarely named cause, because it is not in the farmers, not in the Hungarian farmers, and not in the family farms that we should look for the responsible, honourable pro-government representatives. It's not because of them, it's not because of the producers, it's because of the caiman merchants. Caymanism, the immeasurable hunger for profit, is the cause of the increase in food prices, one of which is not the only cause, but one is the extremely high amount of input prices. I'll give you some comparative data that the same chemicals in Poland and the same rates in fertilizers can be found at how much less they cost than we do. I'll give you three fungicides, a pesticide that is used in large quantities by farmers and a high-quality product used in fruit thinning. Difcor can be looked at, Mr. Secretary of State, the Difcor 250 EC-marked drug in Hungary costs HUF 24,000 per litre, the same for the Poles at HUF 11,000. Domark 100 EC is worth 16,000 forints, the same forints for the Poles. Pyrus 400 SC is worth 14 thousand forints in Hungary, for example, the distributor of Csányi interests Agroker, Chemoker and similar distributors, while the same is 6800 for Poles. Then, an excellent, commonly used, high-level insecticide or insecticide, Affirm Opti, costs 16,000 forints in Hungary and 9400 forints in Poland. And the Globaryll fruit thinner that the Csányi Sándors give for 60,000 forints can be bought for 35 thousand forints in Poland. Without the need for completeness, I have given you some comparative data, which are extremely high in production costs, and the same could be said for different types of fertilizer. And not a small small, small Polish distributor built in a doorway, but I told you the prices of the largest Polish distributor, Agrosimex, which also confirms why prices in Hungary have been raised to an extreme degree. And not the producers who work for the production of the food material, they don't take advantage of it, but the input producers and the food traders. I would like to ask with respect that you are willing to take advantage of all your influence in order to stop this outrageous caimanism, this pull-off, help producers and help consumers. What are they willing to do? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-06-16-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Deputy Minister Zsófia Koncz, State Secretary, will answer your question. Here you go.
u2023-06-16-13	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You mentioned energy supply at several points, energy prices. I think that it is important to talk about these issues, and the Hungarian Government has also placed great emphasis on issues relating to energy independence, energy supply and energy security in recent years. There is a war situation, and basically it seems that this situation is escalating, which is why the Hungarian government is working on a defence budget. It should also be said that, in this difficult situation, the protection of the institution for the reduction of rent introduced since 2013 was a priority for the Hungarian government, and also in this difficult situation, when the country's energy bill last year increased by HUF 4000 billion due to the wrong sanctions, we managed to maintain the security of electricity, and, according to Eurostat's latest report, Hungarian families in the European Union pay the lowest electricity and gas prices. All kinds of analyses show this, and basically these statistical data are carried out in practice. Three quarters of the Hungarian population are under average consumption. Mr President, several points have been touched on the Hungarian economy and institutions. I'd like to extend this circle a little more with the local governments and municipal institutions. We are working on the fact that in this difficult situation, which was not essentially caused by the Hungarian government, and there have been so many bad decisions made in Brussels that we need to resolve in every respect so that we can also help Hungarian entrepreneurs and institutions. Several decisions have been made on this matter that will help this institutional system. For example, as a result of the government's decision, gas-based service providers basically halved the district heating charges of the institutions from January, which could reduce prices to even lower levels than non-resident consumers from autumn. Some state, municipal and ecclesiastical institutions, foundation universities receive natural gas at fixed prices by the end of September. These decisions were made when these institutions needed the greatest help. Since more than 1100 budgetary bodies, local governments, institutions, state and municipal companies, churches and higher education institutions maintained by public-interest foundations enjoy this fixed price protection, we would also like to introduce this for power supply. Therefore, the government extended best practice and, in the case of electricity, the fixed-price period lasts for nine months, from 1 April the electricity will be provided at fixed prices by certain state, municipal and religious institutions, foundation universities, and their expenditure will thus be predictable in electricity supply by the end of the year. This measure was a relief for about 1,200 beneficiaries, and this represents more than 20 000 consumption places. But let's move on to what we've done over the past few years. From January onwards, the MVM provides for businesses in difficulty due to an otherwise prolonged war and sanctions policy in a tailor-made structure. I would like to highlight two things in this area. On the one hand, with the conversion of the replacement fixed construction, we basically split this year's energy fees for many companies and institutional users by 1 May. With this gas supply, we were able to ease the burden of 14,000 customers and 17,000 customers in the power supply. But I'm going on, we've hit an even wider, even wider circle when we've helped 180 thousand micro-enterprises that are involved in universal service. In their case, the price of electricity above average consumption was reduced from HUF 165 per kilowatt hour to the retail market price, i.e. HUF 70. What if it is not working to help Hungarian businesses? This latter measure, by the way, is a huge help to small shops, hairdressers, bakeries and car service providers. I would like to ask the Member because, indeed, on the part of Brussels, there is a very serious, significant attack on the part of us in order to stop our debt, so that the faction can stand up on all platforms in order to keep the overhead and the overhead. In this, I ask for the cooperation of the Group of Our Country and the personal intervention of Congressman. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-16-14	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, the notary of the Parliament, has applied for a speech before the agenda from the Jobbik Group. There you go. You have the floor. [[9.40]]
u2023-06-16-15	Mr President, Dear House, The budget to be adopted has been mentioned several times on behalf of my fellow members of the Government, and the number of these shows a great deal. For example, it turns out that the average wage of Hungarians is so low that a Hungarian would have to save more than 16 years of average wages in order to buy an average-sized apartment in Budapest, without eating, dressing or doing anything else. It also turned out that when we knocked on the door that a wage development fund should be created for Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, the government did not show openness, although it is clear that the Hungarian wage issue needs to be done. Obviously, the respondents will say that there has been a slight increase in wages in nominal value in recent years, and this is the case, and it is true in all countries in the region, the problem is that Hungary has had the least detectable wage increase, and we have not been able to come close to Austria, the European average at all, and this is the real disaster. The budget shows that this government has not given a message, but is very focused on the currentisation of organised migrant imports in order to lure them back abroad in the hope of higher wages, and that it devotes considerable energy to this, and, thirdly, it does not allow those who are here to get closer to normal wages. We are here in Parliament on a day where it is absolutely necessary to discuss the pay issue of teachers. I am quite sure that the various pro-government leaders of the neighbouring countries have not talked to the Hungarian opposition about the fact that the news is coming out now, these days, about how teachers' wages are in the surrounding countries. It's worth a look at. I would not like to use such small-scale arguments, nor have we heard a communication panel from any neighbouring country waiting for Brussels, Strasbourg or some kind of external force field to settle the wages of teachers. Our political community claims that there would also be domestic funds to pay the teachers' wages. What we see is that more than 150,000 teachers, 70,000 teaching staff have gone on strike in the east with one country, and the fact is that a starting teacher's salary has also increased from an amount equivalent to HUF 290 thousand to HUF 384 thousand. In addition to stress replacements, a very important item can be found here: in the remote settlement they were able to show an extra item for teachers and received an extra payment. In the Czech Republic, a brutal data came across as a fast train. They increase the salary of teachers to 130 percent of the average wage. We note that this was not based on data typical of Hungary, as we have already talked about a salary equivalent to HUF 795,000. So you can see that on a completely different shelf, in a completely different dimension, these people are valued at a very different level. Here the explanation of the Minister for Education was interesting, who literally said that he felt that the State should provide the necessary amount. So they are not waiting here for some kind of external force, nor will government wage policy be the issue of competition or government failure to some kind of external force. I would very much like the EU funds for Hungary finally to arrive, because they are ours. But this would require a whole different government economic policy and a whole different government rhetoric and communication. Because, overall, we see that even the previous sentences of the government go against, let's say, the issue of mass-organized imports of migrant workers, or why the government in a settlement of 4 thousand people in Somogy considers it important that 400 Filipino migrant workers work while there are thousands of working-age, inactive Hungarians in the surrounding villages. Obviously, if the government took this issue seriously, it would have filled this budget plan not only by directing the wages of teachers, but also by organising free re-training programs for Hungarians who are inactive for some reason, but could, however, be at an age and in a condition to work. I can see and see that not all of them are going to move, but I'm saying that if we can achieve this at a higher percentage than in recent years, it's a lot better than any sort of organized guest import. What I do not understand is that your Minister for Economic Development said at Commission level that, yes, there would be such a task in the rate of activity, and there would be a hundred thousand domestic labour reserves in it, and this budget does not even try to move these people, yet the government is focusing on migrant workers in a very high way. This duality should now be resolved by the government, and I expect a meaningful response in this respect. Thank you. [[Péter Balassa applauds.]]
u2023-06-16-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. The answer will be heard by Deputy Minister János Fó Nagy, State Secretary, on behalf of the government. Here you go.
u2023-06-16-17	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for giving me the opportunity to respond comprehensively, as is the case before the agenda that you are feeding on from greater immersion. In advance, allow me, at your reference point, to say the popular wisdom of the Putnos, that the bowl is crooked, not the soup. So, it doesn't matter what we relate to, so I ask that we look at the Hungarian data as a whole. Allow me to start with employment, as you have not disputed in your comments that the number of people employed in Hungary has increased happily, there has never been such a number: 4 million 710,000 people worked in April 23. Since 2010, there have been around 1 million more people working. Employment is constantly rising and the employment rate is 74.6 percent higher than the EU average. I'm gonna jump ahead and say all this so we don't have to repeat it there. This also means that the number of inactive people has been happily reduced. There are, of course, some, according to the last surveys, otherwise not accurate, the number of these is estimated to be 600-700 thousand in Hungary today. A significant part of these are not affected by the state of health, mental status and others in the labour market, but we do need and deal with the other part. It is no coincidence that my minister, during the Commission's hearing, said that, according to our surveys, we intend to solve a significant proportion of about half a million workers needed by 2030 with the involvement of the inactive. In April, the number of registered unemployed people was 190,000, and in a month they fell by 5,000. The unemployment rate is below 4 percent, 3.9, which, according to international standards, is virtually full employment. If you recall unemployment in excess of 11 percent in 2010 or unemployment in North-East Hungary of 16-17 percent, I think that I am right to give these numbers in my response as certificates of the effective work of the current government. As far as wages are concerned, average and real earnings have steadily increased from 2010 to 22:00. The increase in gross average earnings between 2010 and 2022 is 154.7 per cent, net average earnings are 158.7 per cent without taking into account family benefits and virtually 168 per cent with family benefits. So we can account for a very significant average and real income growth of 10-12 years. The rise in real earnings without discounts was 71 percent, with a discount of 77.1 percent. After 2010, the government made a very conscious and declarative effort to increase not only the average earnings but also their real value for children. In terms of real earnings, from 10 to 22 for the childless, the increase was 73,7 per cent for the single child, 130,7 per cent for the two children and 13,8 per cent for the three and multiple children over 12 years. As a reminder, I know that some of my opposition colleagues do not like to hear this, that from 2002 to 2010, in the case of socialist-liberal governments, gross average earnings increased by around 65.5 per cent in eight years, net average earnings by 71 per cent and real earnings by 13,8 per cent in total, but there was no family discount. I ask you to compare these numbers, Congressman, when you value my reply. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]] [[9.50]]
u2023-06-16-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Imre Komjáthi of the MSZP Group has applied for a speech before the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-06-16-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My fellow Members and, above all, my fellow members of the Government who voted in favour of interest tax. Well, they didn't start saving on themselves again, did they? The extra 13 percent sochodron coming to 15 percent soy soy so far doesn't hit you and your moon yard. I spent a few hours combing through their declarations of assets, because I really suspected that the sac on bank deposits was not your unselfish offer to save the Hungarian budget. Well, that's the thing. The Prime Minister's declaration of property accounts for nearly HUF 14 million in savings in a joint account with the wife after many years of misappropriation. Gergely Gulyás took 13 million 459 thousand forints in the same place. Judit Varga, the other responsible for codification, has no bank savings. Zsolt Semjén took 1.5 million forints into a financial institution and kept 8 million in his pillow pants. Please, let's not mess with each other. There are undeniable properties lined up in the statements, we see the multimillion-dollar luxury watches, expensive foreign trips, hunting adventures, and news of various corporate affairs. And you're enjoying all this with a worthless NER elite? Well, no, my fellow Members, you are very rich people, but you don't keep your money in bank deposits, there's a good chance they don't keep it in Hungarian banks, while most of the Hungarians do, in fact, the more vulnerable you are, the less money you can put away, the safer you will find in your finances. Now, let's look at the amok run of the past few years. Then many people ask themselves why they do not trust the Hungarian sovereign debt. It's like the airplane passengers are listening to the loudspeaker say that the pilot and the copilot are yelling at each other about which lever to pull. This is exactly the experience of your debate, such as the ongoing budget for us and the debate between Márton Nagy and György Matolcsy. I'm going to say, you know, the budget for 2023 is fake, right? You know it won't be like Mihály Varga promised, right? For two weeks they can't even figure out what's going on with the economy. In fact, they're not even counting it anymore. By announcing the interest tax, Martin the Great, mentioned earlier, said that the goal is not to increase tax revenues, and I quote literally - "Who cares how much we collect?" I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Ladies and gentlemen, Be kind to take a walk around your property in the property statement, and if anyone complains about restrictions, feel free to laugh in their eyes and quote the minister: . who cares how much we collect? Put this on the billboard. Run this on Facebook. People with pro-government flu say, "Who cares how much we take?" I mean, it's not like that, is it? ! Well, I'll tell you what, the guy who's been left with 85 forints out of 100, and now he's only 72 forints. The one who needs to be worried about when he's gonna re-submit a proposal to you on Friday night to destroy the lives of the most vulnerable, because that's nonsense. At the last minute, you will be presented with all kinds of salad law and who cares, and it will become legislation immediately. So far, it's criticism, but we have suggestions. First of all, I ask that you at least take your work seriously, stop this static legislation, and expect your own minister to be able to tell you how much you're taking when you introduce a new tax. Two. Here's to asking the winners of the last 13 years for a greater sacrifice than the most vulnerable. Brutal enrichment took place in a narrow circle, but there is no luxury wealth tax, and they refuse to use a higher tax rate even for millions of dollars. Three. Remove the record-size VAT on food, support domestic convenience stores to lower prices! Immediately raise pensions by 5 percent and the most deprived 300,000 families receive a food card worth 20,000 HUF a month! Ladies and gentlemen, Many of us think a lot about the path to a successful Hungarian future. We don't have to agree on everything, but let's put our hands on our hearts, it's the interest rate tax, and as they've accepted, and as they've justified, this whole, who's interested in hurting isn't something anyone needs. Speaking of endings. The other day we discussed Péter Szijjártó and his delegation's government machine luxury food and luxurious Internet. Well, I've also looked at the Minister's property statement, and I'm saddened to experience it. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] that in 21 years of parliamentary representation and nine years of ministerial office, he couldn't churn up enough to pay back the family's cost of explaining the wealth growth of his dear parents. I know the situation. I'm a six-year-old family man. I know it's gonna take a lot of time for the kids to fly out and the family's economy to settle down. I wish Minister Szijjártó that this would happen as soon as possible. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause from the ranks of MSZP and DK.]]
u2023-06-16-20	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Mr András Tállai, Deputy Minister of State. Here you go.
u2023-06-16-21	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Parliament, Honourable Party President, Congressman. Most of his speech was personal, he said names, he said incomes, so, if I may, I'd like to start with you, but not in that sense. For example, I would like to ask you why you were not here in the budget debate as President of the MSZP, President of the Hungarian Socialist Party. We discussed the budget for three days, and he could have explained his views on economic policy, taxation. [[Imre Komjathi intervenes.]] He could have performed this new five-point package for the MSZP, which was already modified, I hear. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] But you didn't have time, but you stopped by on Friday morning at the emergency session about your speech before the agenda. Let's look at the specifics. It's a matter of interest tax. Well, it is true that the 13 percent socho was introduced and decided by the government that there is only one reason: that self-financing is strengthened by the government, i.e., that sovereign bonds have some competitive advantage over others. I'm gonna give you a little competitive advantage. But why take public funding so strictly and very seriously? You're part of this, too. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] The left, as they admitted, has admitted that they are working to ensure that this country does not receive the EU funds due to Hungary. (Intercoms from the lines of the MSZP. ) They're working on it. If EU funds were to arrive, we would not have to involve so much external resources in the balance of the budget, and we would not be here to pay close attention to increasing the amount of sovereign debt bonds. And as far as taxation and economic policy are concerned, if I may, I wouldn't be personal about how much your group leader pays or how much your salary is obviously much more than when he worked at the factory. I would rather talk about the government's objective of economic policy, including taxation, wage policy and pension policy. In taxation, it was clear and it is the government's objective to support the work, to support the people who work and to have fewer taxes. This is why the 15% tax was introduced, which is a very favourable tax amount by European standards. The other, next is wage policy. In wage policy over the last 10 to 13 years, the government has achieved the goal of increasing real income, real wages [[Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP.]] , obviously on the one hand with tax policy and on the other with wage policy, a three-way agreement was reached in 2016. The results of this are already there, as there wouldn't have been more than a million new jobs in Hungary in the last 13 years if the government hadn't thought so, if it didn't say that the income obtained by work should have been an advantage and that a favourable tax form and an amount should be provided to those who have a job. [[10.00]] And this, of course, is accompanied by a system of family taxation, where we have said that families that have children and have children should be preferred. This includes a major social group, pensioners, 2.5 million people, where, in the last 13 years, we have guaranteed the real value of pensions, as promised in 2010, we preserve the value of pensions. This has been successful every year, and there have been times when pensioners have been able to provide a pension premium. We were also able to ensure it when there was a difficult economic situation and economic growth did not turn out that way, and we are going to ensure it now, when inflation is higher than expected, and the rate of economic growth is also rising, we hope. Honourable Congressman, I suggest you think about it as party president systems, not in person. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-16-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! From the Momentum Group, Congresswoman Anna Orosz applied for a speech before the agenda, but before giving the floor, I would like to say with respect to her constituents, explain to them why the memory and respect of Imre Nagy and his martyrs, our heroes of '56 is not important to you. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] Thank you. You have the floor.
u2023-06-16-23	My question to the honourable Fidesz Members and State Secretarys is why the present and future of Hungarian children is not important to them. [[Bence Rétvári: It's not important to you!]] Today is the extraordinary day of the Fidesz Vengeance Act called the Status Act. An extraordinary meeting with an outrageous bill. And a few days ago, Fidesz announced with great simplicity that the building of Parliament would be closed from tourists, from the group's guests and from all those who had previously received permission to enter today's debate. This means that neither those involved in the debate on the Vengeance Act, such as children, teachers, parents, civilians, interest representatives or journalists, can participate if you choose. It is perfectly understandable why they are doing this, obviously they know that it is a matter of status, and it is simply a sin what they are doing to schools, children, their present and their future. 5316. Do you know what this number is? 5316 teachers quit last year alone. This year, 16,000 teachers were missing from Hungarian schools. Nearly half the schools do not have enough math teachers, nearly a third of the schools lack language teachers and science teachers. The hours are running out. Teachers dance on the edge of burnout. The kids are brutally overwhelmed. Parents pay double for education, once for their tax dollars, and once for their paid-off income for extra hours and training. There can be no question of what in the Momentum the full status law is, as it is, condemned. This proposal goes against the aim of making our schools places where children become balanced, happy and successful young adults. Do you know what you need for that? Professionally and humanly respected teachers who receive a decent salary. The Vengeance Act will do exactly the opposite. They are not trying to alleviate the lack of teachers, they are not trying to attract new young people to the teaching field, they are trying to eviscerate teachers who remain on the field even further. With what? By increasing working time, re-routing, increasing the available replacements, working on Sundays, eliminating the status of civil servant. If you will vote in favour of this outrageous law, then it will be your responsibility, not only to reduce the shortage of teachers, but to resign at least five thousand other teachers. This is all the people who have indicated so far that if this law is passed, they will say good-bye to the Hungarian schools. Five thousand teachers, five thousand more teachers will have to say goodbye to Hungarian children from our Hungarian schools. This will be your responsibility. I think that much has already been said here about Hungarian education and the status law, so as an illustration, I would just like to read to you a few messages sent to you by the Hungarian people, the electorate with the schools. [[Bence Rétvári: Do we read what is sent to them?]] in relation to: My granddaughter wanted to be responsible for the five of her environmental skills to be excellent. She couldn't because she hasn't had a teacher in two months. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, We can bury and mourn the future of our children and our country. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, In a kindergarten where half as many people work instead of the number of teachers required, how does the leader select the lower 25 percent, while everyone is already doing two people's work? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm a tripartite teacher, I have three small children. If I stick to teaching, I sentence my own children to deprivation. Why do you hate teachers? Tell me, please. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, While the government is supposed to be family-friendly, at least that's what they like to say about themselves, they are proving to its regiment that they are simply sacrificing the present and future of children, the future of the nation. You may feel that you can do anything today, but sooner or later everyone will realize that what you are legally doing to Hungarian schools, Hungarian children is simply a sin against children, their present and their future. In view of this, I ask you to vote on this shameful proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and Momentum.]]
u2023-06-16-24	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári, Minister of State, I would like to inform you and this House, as well as the public, who is watching us today, that, contrary to what the Congresswoman said, the press is still present, and those who have requested an entry for today have all received 27 tickets to this day, according to my information. The second, which is at least as important, is that we are broadcasting today's meeting through the network. Mr Bence Rétvári Deputy Minister, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2023-06-16-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, You did the same during the epidemic period, then you said that the Hungarian Parliament would not meet while we were sitting here. They're not doing anything else right now. [[Miklós Soltész: They're lying!]] Now they say that the seats are not public, while everyone on the usual surfaces can follow them the same way they always do. But you, the series of actions you've done in the last few weeks and months, how did your own ally, Peter Ungár, co-chair of the LMP, not a right-wing politician, but a leader of one of your own allies? He said in the name of the LMP, "We will not arrange for teachers to move." Because it's not a representation, it's telling you, it's telling you and the other momentaries, it's selfish, and the voters can separate it very accurately. Maybe that's why the voters didn't stand behind you, and it didn't turn out to be a mass demonstration that you've wanted in the last few months. You are told by your own ally: We do not think that blocking is a good tool to solve teachers' problems. We believe that washing teachers' wages against freedom of the press, questioning the rule of law does not help, but harm. What you have done over the last few months, according to your own allies, is harmful to teachers and it is not useful, and it is not only said by us, but also said by those whose logo was on your ballot, honourable Member. He says about you and the Momentum: "Accionist politics conceal that they say nothing about the world, that form replaces content again. You have also voiced your indignation here, but once again you have not said a word about what you would do specifically in the field of education. When we held the nine-partisan meeting, we heard from you what you didn't support, but what you would support, you didn't say a word. They got up and they got up. And their experts didn't come to the meeting the next day to tell me. You're creating a scandal, but you don't have any ideas of your own. How does Peter Ungár continue to qualify for your activities? It's a parody. It's about you. What you're trying to make it look like a heroic fight, and you're pushing people on the police line with both hands, your own ally says, "It's a parody." What did the demonstration have to do with the teachers? What kind of message did you have that went beyond your purpose? It simply has nothing to do with the desire of some opposition actors to get into the paper for teachers to earn more. And we can agree with that. After all, when Ferenc Gelencsér, your party president and his other fellow Members, saw in the videos with two hands, this is their two-hand job to push people on the police line with two hands, and behind them people are looking at you with an indiscretion, and you thought that if you pushed people on the police force, that this would increase the wages of teachers? What was the connection between the two? [[10.10]] You can see that you are not particularly interested in the situation of teachers, since two weeks earlier, the situation of freedom of the press caused the same aggression, the same violence that was done two weeks later, referring to teachers. The teachers were called to come in mass, then called to one corner of the Ministry of Interior, the other corner of the Ministry of Interior, but the crowds you were expecting didn't come because you weren't credible to them, because you didn't help the teachers in their activities. Let me quote one thing. Endre Tóth, your educational policyr, said in connection with the teaching career:. Mechanical portfolio creation, the rigid system of the career cannot be carried forward, we need a complete rethink. What's in this bill? The One Who Is a Pedagogist II. They want to get a rating after Teacher I, they don't have to create a portfolio, they lose self-esteem, they lose many ratings, exactly what you're saying, that rigidity needs to be removed from the career, now it's going to be a performance-based pay system that you wrote here, that's what it says. And you stand up and say that's unacceptable. The previous one was unacceptable because it was involved, and that's because it's not in it, because it's out of the new proposal. Do you have any ideas about Hungarian education anyway? [[Anna of Russia: What about you?!]] Because one minute they say that there should be no portfolio, there's a bill coming up, which is the Pedagogist I and Pedagogist II. It eliminates portfolio creation between grades, and then they say that this is the worst blow that can befall teachers, honourable Member. When we took over our government, he spent HUF 1010 billion on Hungarian budget education. This year, you will translate 2200 forints, and next year 2600 billion forints, honourable Member. We tried to increase this every year. Even when we didn't get a single penny from Brussels, we also advanced a 10 percent wage increase, and we are working to make the wages of teachers an average of 800 thousand forints by 2024. Your fellow Members of the European Parliament from Katalinos Cseh, Annas Donáth [[The president's ringing the bell.]] they demand new conditions from Brussels so that Brussels does not have to pay the wage increase for Hungarian teachers. Now, that's a shame, Congresswoman. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Intercoms from the ruling parties: That's right! Eszter Debate: Shame on you!]]
u2023-06-16-26	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, From the DK Group, Mr Balázs Barkóczi applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-06-16-27	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, In a few years' time, when your unglorious government will only be a very sad chapter in the political history of the regime after the change of regime. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. Bence Rétvári: Gyurcsány and before the change of regime!]] today is the day of Hungarian parliamentarianism [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: Gyurcsány! Gyurcsány! The president's ringing the bell.]] It will appear on the darkest pages of your gold book. Everyone will mention this day only when the mask has fallen off your disguise and national destruction policy, that this was the day when you have undertaken to confront the Hungarian future depositaries and the hopes of the Hungarian future, the Hungarian parents, Hungarian students and Hungarian teachers; that this was the day when you played home to your friends and business partners for pennies, the ideas that made you presentable for a few hundred votes. [[Bence Rétvári: The Jobbik's ally! Dr. Robert Répássy: What about Jobbik?!]] , after the adventurous policy of translating Hungarian against Hungarians and the mere fear of power, all of us shared a home, a lying incitement to the Union, and the stranglement of freedom of the press, you committed the greatest crime that only a responsible government could commit: the last functioning bastions of Hungarian public education were destroyed for pure power reasons. You are now preparing with the approval of the Hungarian parliamentary majority to complete and complete the vendetta campaign that was proclaimed against Hungarian teachers, Hungarian parents and Hungarian students a year and a half ago. You are preparing to see that now, when 16,000 teachers are missing from public education, when inflation in Orbán has already eaten up teachers' wages, when so few have ever applied for pedagogical training, and at the same time, the proportion of early school leavers has never been so high. [[Eszter Debate: That's not true! You're lying!]] While the profession is growing old and there is no replacement, and while you are withdrawing the most fundamental employers' rights from overworked teachers, you are bringing in the last pledging of the Hungarian public education, the law of vengeance called the status law. Let's see why I say that. While your prime minister is voting for all sanctions out there, and in his role as a freedom fighter at home, while you are pointing cowardly and lyingly at Brussels in relation to teacher salaries, you would also be willing to withdraw the rest of the teachers' freedom with the law on revenge. While you promise everything out there just to get the EU funds that your government doesn't get the Hungarians because of its corrupt operation, while treading on the most fundamental rights of teachers and students, blowing them off with tear gas and beating them with policemen. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: What about the rubber bullet?!]] And they're not even willing to consult with the representatives of the profession. While further restricting the freedom of teaching, further reducing the autonomy of institutions and teachers, further increasing the burden of teachers, lying that it has never been so good to be a teacher in Hungary, and that the abuse of teachers' rights and the removal of the status of civil servants are in their interest. While future generations are deprived of quality education and use administrative means to cover up the shortage of teachers now affecting the entire country, as well as to keep teachers in danger and fear, you explain in a hypocritical and false way in your propaganda door of hundreds of billions of forints, and are harassing Hungarian people against graduates who teach and teach Hungarian students. Dear House, This Vengeance Act, along with the worn-out and Aviv ideas of those who worked it, will end up in a trash heap of history in a few years' time, and we can only hope that even the current cabinet will not be able to do as much damage to Hungarian public education as the Social Democratic Government, led by Dobrev Klára, can do. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Nacsa Lawrence:]] with a responsible left-wing policy you will not be able to remedy [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] But until then, the shadow government will do everything possible: we will initiate a real dialogue with the professionals, and we will develop an educational program that will be the basis for the renewal of Hungarian public education. [[Eszter Vitalyos: We've seen it, we've seen it before 2010 what kind of program you have!]] Let's take a look at these points. We demand that the Hungarian educator raise the immediate 45 percent wage increase and the wage arrangement of non-peducating workers. We demand that freedom of teaching and autonomy be restored in schools [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] to give back the educational institutions with immediate effect, together with the resources allocated to them, to the municipalities that require this. We demand that teachers who have been unlawfully dismissed be immediately reinstated, disciplinary penalties abolished and the right to strike restored. We demand a reduction in the burden of teachers and students, a truly chance-creating and XXI. Hungarian public education of the century. We demand responsible and competent education management and the establishment of an independent Ministry of Education. And we demand the immediate withdrawal of the revenge law imposed on teachers and students and a genuine, meaningful dialogue on public education (The President bells.) Renewal. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-06-16-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to the Member's question will be Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2023-06-16-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Member, Mr Shadow Minister, Dear House, You began to distinguish between your political community and ours by making us a closed chapter in post-regime history. This is indeed a difference, since you are the chapter of pre-regime history in post-regime history, and here Ferenc Gyurcsány and Klára Dobrev, the tiny villa, the events there that have determined the history of Hungary for generations in the 1950s. [[Intercoms from DK's ranks.]] In the '60s, '70s, '80s, '90s and '2000s, that's really different. You know, the politicians of my party, the Christian Democratic People's Party, were in exile somewhere, either in prison or somewhere, when they decided what was going to happen in Hungary. So this is indeed a difference between the two parties. Then he also said that some people here in Parliament would make a deal with a lot of ideas. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: There's the right-hand man! Balázs Barkóczi's hand points to the right.]] Maybe he looked around. Well, you guys were campaigning with the Guards, and your flyers were thrown out by former Hungarian Guardians. So if anyone... [[Intercoms.]] It was not our ally who talked about listing Jewish representatives and politicians in Parliament, but your fellow politician, your ally, your fellow Member, spoke about it. So maybe it's finally over! They look to themselves, honourable Member, and perhaps they may, although I do not believe that they will once in a lifetime be genuine in this matter. Although Ferenc Gyurcsány told you that you can speak honestly, you don't have to lie to Ferenc Gyurcsány, we were there, that's our job. [[10.20]] At least as big a logical puzzle as the school's tasks are that there are liars and truth-tellers on the island, but, well, Ferenc Gyurcsány once said that there is no need to lie, it must be said that you are hindering a teacher's wage increase, because you do not allow it, or rather use your political influence to use it to prevent any source from arriving in Hungary for a teacher's wage increase. [[Balázs Barkóczi constantly intervenes.]] We agreed with the European Union in HUF 800 billion that the largest construction in Hungary will be the construction to be used to raise teachers' wages. We had an agreement and the Union. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: That's right!]] And ever since last July, all you've done is stop it. Klára Dobrev, Csaba Molnár, Congressman Attila Ara-Kovács, are also going to Brussels, and they are demanding further conditions not to cover the wage increase of Hungarian teachers. All European Union funds are included in our budget, a chapter of the Hungarian budget; this is part of the budget, and we would like to guarantee them the biggest wage increase of all time, a 75% wage increase because we appreciate them; because we value their work not only in words but also in financials; we would like to thank you not only at the end of the year, at graduation, for how you deal with our children or other children, but also in their monthly wages. We cannot take an example of this from you, because since the change of regime, the only government that has reduced the wages of Hungarian teachers has been exactly your government. [[Interjection in the benches of the governing parties: That's right! Zsolt Gréczy: Lies!]] Since the change of regime, the only government that's shut down schools in bulk in 381 places has been your government. Since the change of regime, the only government that has made teacher training a tuition fee, and twice, is your government, the Horn government and the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government. And the only government that sent mass teachers in Hungary, 15 thousand teachers, were you exactly when 15 thousand teachers were expelled from Hungarian schools in 2008-2009; they had to go without word, speech or explanation. And now you stand up, after you've reduced your wages, you demand a raise; after you've dismissed teachers, then you demand more teachers; after you've introduced a tuition fee for teacher training, you say that more people should apply for teacher training. What you are saying about the future is right, but what you have done in the past is the opposite, and what you are doing now, not only here, but in Brussels, because you are not in the majority, but in Brussels you have influence over the majority, and that is where you are trying to prevent the wage increase of Hungarian teachers. You're talking about a lack of reconciliation, honourable Member. You were personally at the meeting when we invited nine parties to the Ministry of the Interior; that was the 20th meeting. Before that, there were 19 meetings; 10 of them were with the unions separately, but there was a next meeting with the National Council for Public Education, the Round Table for Public Education, private supporters, church maintenance, parental organizations, everyone who could, and then there was a next meeting with your experts the next day. Did he come? No! Did you make a proposal for the nine-party? No! Did you have any meaningful comments? No! [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] You only believe in scandal, honourable Member. [[Intercoms and noise from DK benches.]] Let's hope that the left doesn't come to power again, because then we'll be back to the time that has resulted in a teacher's wage reduction and mass layoffs. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-06-16-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Member István Hollik of the KDNP Group asked for an opportunity to speak before the agenda. There you go. You have the floor. [[The representatives of DK shall leave the Chamber. Intercoms in the pro-government benches, among others: DK is pulling out! That's all you cared about?]]
u2023-06-16-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Unfortunately, Europe has gone from crisis to crisis since 2008. Since the global economic crisis, Europe's challenges have been one another: the crisis in the euro area, the migration crisis, the Covid epidemic, the economic crisis caused by Covid and now the war, the sanctions that have failed and the energy crisis that has caused them. And we can also see that Brussels has mistreated all these crises; it has not improved the situation, it has only made it worse; in the end, the nation states have always been able to overcome these challenges. And if that were not enough, in addition to bad crisis management, further decisions have been taken and made in Brussels that will only add to the problem, such as the decision on the recently imposed resettlement quota. We must therefore say that Brussels has been pursuing a self-destructive policy for the past 15 years. The decision on the mandatory quota also highlights that, unfortunately, Brussels does not realize that Europe is going in the wrong direction and, let alone brake, it is stepping on the gas pedal to move faster. But what did this decision say? Firstly, illegal immigrants are distributed among Member States on the basis of a mandatory mechanism. Moreover, on the basis of the proposal, Brussels has acquired the exclusive right to decide exactly how many immigrants it intends to distribute. The current proposal currently includes 30,000 immigrants, but Brussels has already indicated at the moment that it intends to set a much larger framework number. Secondly, according to the proposed coup d'état, Hungary should set up a huge refugee camp at the border, where up to 8511 immigrant cases should be dealt with at the same time by nearly 30 percent of the migrants to be distributed, while Greece of our size only has 1035, so the injustice is quite striking. Moreover, if Brussels wants to increase the number of people to be distributed, as it has already said several times, this number may be repeated. Thirdly, if a Member State fails to comply, it will be fined nearly HUF 8 million per immigrant. The fact that Brussels managed to push this through on the very day when a Syrian immigrant who had applied for asylum in Sweden somehow made it through Europe to France, where he had stabbed children, without the authorities knowing. This case has itself pointed to the total failure of the immigration policy in Brussels, but the reality does not seem to disturb Brussels in clarity. They do not care at all about the invitation to the masses of immigrants; they do not mind the security risks involved. In fact, this is probably the goal of creating a mixed multicultural society, just like George Soros imagined when he put his thoughts on open society on paper. His son, Alex Soros, who just took over the Soros network, wants to do exactly what his father imagined. Of course, the decision on a compulsory quota is not without precedent, as this is why the Soros network has been lobbying in Brussels for a long time; it has done so with the help of the left. And of course, according to the instructions, the dollar left from the very first moment at home pretended that it didn't exist; Ágnes Kunhalmi said that it was all a fake problem. Then they began to repeat that there was no and there would not be any mandatory quota; they went all the way to the point that we were accused of lying here in Parliament or in the European Parliament when we talked about the compulsory quota. István Ujhelyi said, literally, there will be no quota, and there will be no mandatory quota. But of course, when this proposal came to them in the European Parliament recently, they all voted in favour. So for the many time, this proves that their unscrupulousness has no limits, and they are not able, by chance, to side with the Hungarian people on national matters. One thing is certain: we will not allow Europe to drag Hungary down with it; and we will not allow others to impose their opinions on us. The result of the referendum on the compulsory quota and now the relevant pass of the Fundamental Law obliges us to fight with all our might against the crazy proposal of the mandatory quota in Brussels. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-06-16-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer on behalf of the government from Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2023-06-16-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Since 2015, we have seen a period in Europe's history with a huge wave of immigration. We can see that for almost a decade now, hundreds of thousands of people from land or sea borders have been on the borders of Europe, millions of people are appearing every year, and they want to enter the territory of the European Union. Someone has to make a decision about who gets in and who doesn't. We Hungarians believe that each country can make its own decision; each country must decide for itself whether to allow migrants or not to enter; and every country has the right to defend itself. [[10.30]] The European Union does not think so. Brussels abused its power last Thursday, and at the meeting of the Home Affairs Council by qualified majority, thus avoiding the principle of the European Union, a consensus because the Union was created as an equal community of the Member States, obviously we are not equal, but we are not equal, and we cannot take decisions against the interests of certain countries; it is not possible to push certain countries out of decision-making, to vote them out, but to seek consensus, to ignore this principle, to abuse their power and to vote against it, to force the proposal to remove from the hands of the nation states the opportunity to decide who they want to live with, and not to whom they want to live; and they want to direct from Brussels that country to become an immigrant country in Europe. It was the abuse of power that they did not want the countries to decide. In fact, Brussels does not decide either, since it has not set up any strict set of requirements, but merely laid down principles full of facilitations, exceptions and discounts in relation to illegal immigration, which makes it about automatic so that the overwhelming majority of immigrants can enter the European Union and are then allocated to each Member State on the basis of these plans according to compulsory quotas. What does that mean? Who's gonna decide who's coming to Europe and who isn't? Only the human smugglers. Those smugglers who reach the borders of the European Union will sooner or later enter the vast majority of them; those who are not being sent will only not get into the territory of the European Union. A criminal organization, a criminal network, if it goes higher, there will be more immigrants in Europe if it goes lower, there will be less. It is outrageous that they refuse to protect our own continent in Brussels and do not want to allow countries to protect their own countries, but rather to expose the entire European Union to the operation of human smugglers. If this news doubles the number of smuggled people, then twice as many people will get in, and they want to take the opportunity to protect their own countries, whether by fence or otherwise, out of the hands of governments. The fact that only one percent of the costs for building and maintaining the fence were paid from a common European source and the rest had to be paid by Hungary, which is a very high amount of EUR 1.5 billion. It must also be said that the Hungarian left still suffers from political blindness. Many people slapped or cried when they saw Bence of Tordai in the previous days saying that there was no mandatory migrant quota, while this is the subject of this issue in all countries of Europe. In Austria, MEPs opposed immigration said that the government stabbed the Austrians in the back after not saying no to migrant quotas. In the Czech Republic, the former Prime Minister initiated an extraordinary parliamentary meeting because the Czech Republic did not prevent this decision from being taken. In fact, one of the Members said that the government could not have taken this decision alone, but should have taken it with the involvement of Parliament. The Poles are already planning to take international action against the migration quota and say that the German government's mistakes must be paid by the Germans, not by the Poles. The issue has been on the agenda ever since the decision was made in Germany. From one point of view, it is said that it is too much, and from the other it is too little; so there is also a double criticism of the adoption of mandatory quotas here. But it is clear that only the Hungarian left is in a position to deny what is obvious in all countries of Europe and is one of the priority topics of general political speech in all countries. Unfortunately, Brussels has set off on a road that could result in the desire to make every country in Europe an immigrant country. As long as we are in Hungary, we will protect Hungary, but apparently the left would support all requests in Brussels, including quota allocation, and immediately turn Hungary into an immigrant country. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-06-16-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Mr Róbert Zsigó applied for a speech from the Fidesz Group before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-06-16-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The war in our neighbor, Ukraine, is becoming more and more human sacrifice, more and more loss. We've all seen in the news the explosion of the South Ukrainian dam, the horrific footage, the devastating series of images that say 10,000 people lost everything and ruined their lives. This is also proof of what we have been saying from the beginning: an immediate ceasefire and peace talks are needed. We know that escalation always affects neighbours the most, so Hungary is in a particularly difficult situation, even because Hungarian people are dying in the war. We have said it many times, and we stress it now: saving lives can only be done in peace. Hungary is still on the side of peace, and as long as it is up to us, we will remain there. This is not only the position of the government and the ruling parties, but also the will of the people, as confirmed by last year's election. This is why the Left's position on the issue is incomprehensible, because what they say and do would bring Hungary into the war. Dear Parliament, Several representatives of the left have repeatedly confirmed that they would send weapons or even soldiers to the war in Ukraine. Mayor Gergely Christmas went further, he said that Hungary is already at war. In a TV interview, he said, and I quote, we're at war with the country that was supplying this subway car. When the host made it clear that Hungary was fortunately not at war with anyone, the Mayor went on and said, "Well, I think it is de. Ladies and gentlemen, There is no doubt that if they were to govern, this would indeed be so, and this would seriously jeopardise Hungary's peace and the security of the Hungarian people. We were not even dismayed after the sentences of Christmas, Zsuzsanna Szelényi, former left-wing representative, current programme director of the Soros University, convinced everyone that we simply could not miss the war. But we don't want war; we want peace, and we don't let ourselves be. There are other examples. Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, spoke about it, and I quote: "As every decent country sends weapons, Hungary should, too, yes. And Katalin Czech MEP said that I also quote:, it is clear that NATO must help Ukraine by receiving those weapons. And they wouldn't stop at sending guns: the left would send soldiers to war. Péter Márki-Zay, the candidate for the fallen Prime Minister on the left, answered the question about military assistance: if NATO decides, then even soldiers. They seem to expect this attitude from abroad; that's why they got it, and that's why they get the dollars. Dear House, We are not surprised that the main financier, George Soros, wrote the script for the continuation of the war the other day. In his writing, he stated how the counterattack would be successful and how to cut the Crimean peninsula away from water supply. He thinks the end of the war will be a positive shock to the world. It is also obvious that human life does not matter in his plans; but we cannot expect anything good from his son Alexander, who inherited the Soros Empire, he wants to force the war on the Hungarians as much as his father does. From these examples, it is clear to everyone that the pro-war pressure on the left is continuous, but the governing parties will not allow Hungary to be dragged into the war. We still want a truce as soon as possible and then peace talks. We continue to work to ensure peace as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-06-16-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. [[To Bence Tordai, who is sitting in the box and talking to his fellow Members:]] Congressman Bence of Tordai, I ask you not to hold a meeting there, but if you want to come to the meeting, come in and take your seat. [[Bence of Turda: Reconciliation...]] attend and, if you do not want to, refrain from organising a separate meeting there. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] The agenda we spoke about... [[Bence of Turdai spread his arms and applauds.]] Congressman! I can warn you from here, and the same sanctions apply, as otherwise in the relevant parts of the house rules. So I'm gonna ask you very nicely to step outside. [[Bence of Tordai picks up his phone. Interviews from the benches of the governing parties: Soros called?]] I give the floor to Deputy Secretary Csaba Dömötör. [[10.40]]
u2023-06-16-37	Dear House, We don't know if the call came from abroad or from abroad [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] In any case, it seems more important than Parliament's work. I will protect my fellow Member from Torda so much that he is at least here in the Chamber, as opposed to a number of other fellow Members.
u2023-06-16-38	Mr. Secretary. He's not in the Chamber. The Chamber is the inner part. That's not it.
u2023-06-16-39	From now on, it is up to Mr Tordai to sit in the Chamber, and there is no obstacle to that. [[Eszter Vítalos: He can't even come into the room.]] As far as the topic is concerned, we could briefly summarize the situation by not seeing the end of the war, unfortunately, but the economic problems that have arisen because of it. As for the military part of the situation, the voice of peace is still not getting stronger. The negotiations are about how more weapons could be sent and how more EU resources could be used to do so, say, the so-called peace framework, which is absurd in itself, how the budget resources of the peace framework could be used for the sending of arms. As a somewhat alarming motif, there have been rumors about how Russian territory could be attacked for self-defense purposes. But that's not all. Another shipment of two billion dollars worth of weapons is outlined in the United States. In Germany, the debate is on how to send more Leopard 2 tanks to the front, with 7 billion euros already spent on arms shipments in Germany, even on a German scale. Then the Weimar Triangle held a summit in Paris. This means France outside of Germany, Poland. After the summit, these countries also confirmed the need to continue sending weapons. In the meantime, there are reports of U.S. tanks using uranium-containing bullets after the British. These few examples show that Europe is now going into the war situation more than moving away from it. This also has serious consequences in economic life. On the one hand, because the billions of euros spent on weapons could be spent on just another: support for small entrepreneurs, family support, investment or wage increases. Another reason for the limitation of room for manoeuvre is a series of very misguided sanctions in terms of its consequences. I would like to draw the attention of the fellow Members, and the Russian economy can expect expansion this year, while the European economy has slowed down by far. Industrial production in Europe is falling in 18 countries. Greenfield investments decreased by 15 percent. How else could it be if Russian energy imports from the European market could only be replaced more expensively? And that's not the end of the story. In Germany, the Minister for Economic Affairs openly talks about the need to limit industrial capacity in Germany if there is no transit agreement between Russia and Ukraine. We are talking about Europe's strongest economy, where the second quarter of GDP is falling, where industrial production is still falling, and where food prices are also on the agenda. The opposition representatives who are here, and those who are away, I would like to ask whether this is also the case, and therefore also the situation in Germany, is the Hungarian Prime Minister's fault. Because if they sense the energy crisis, the war and the consequences of Brussels decisions in Germany, they will sense it in every country in Europe. They feel it and they pay it. Thus, every day that goes by war is damaging Europe's long-term competitiveness and disfigures the prospects of European and Hungarian families for the future. We did not cause the war, we did not cause it, but we bear its main economic burden, and it was not necessary at all to do so. This is one more reason why we want to continue to be the voice of peace in the shadow of war. This is not an isolated voice, it is the voice of the people, because we say this not only here, but in more and more places in Europe. So finally, I can say that if someone wants to change direction in the Hungarian government's policy on war, then don't hope. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-16-40	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to inform the House that no one has applied for a statement after the agenda. The agenda for today's meeting is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. I would ask my fellow Members to check that their cards have been properly placed in the voting machine. [[For signal:]] Mr. Máté Kocsis's card doesn't work. They're gonna bring a backup card. We'll see that it works, but the pro-government clerk takes into account that the card doesn't work in your case, and if it doesn't work in the vote, then I will naturally ask you how you voted. We are now deciding on the amendments to the agenda. The Group of the Mi Hazan Group has proposed that the Parliament's proposal for a meeting starting today should be amended as a change to the T/4255 on the new career of teachers. The general discussion of bill No 1 should not take place. I declare that Mr László Toroczkai Group Leader has initiated a repetition of the vote using a voting counting machine. In view of this, I do not think that the raise-up vote is justified, but I will immediately ask you to vote in a voting machine. Please vote using the ballot counting machine. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament's proposal to amend the agenda by 0 votes in favour... [[Grumble in the ranks of our country. Dr. István Apáti: We are not zeros! For signal:]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm fixing it. Parliament did not accept the proposal by 9 votes in favour, 114 votes against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, I declare that the DK Group has proposed to supplement the agenda proposal, which is the House Rule 15. Paragraph 4a of the Rules of Procedure has been rejected, given that it is not subject to the provisions of Article 15 of the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Act on Parliament, it was submitted, and subject to Article 35 of the Act on Parliament. Paragraph 1 of the Act and Article 16 of the Rules of Procedure. Pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section 3 of the extraordinary sitting, only a single motion may be placed on the agenda, which shall be entitled to be placed on the agenda at the initiative of the extraordinary meeting, in this case one fifth of the Members of Parliament shall request. The proposer of the rejected proposal initiated the repeal of the President's decision. The Parliament decides on this without debate, with a raise of hands. Mr Ferenc Gyurcsány Group Leader has initiated a repetition of the vote using a ballot counting machine. [[Bence Rétvári: He's not here! György Balla: He's not here either!]] In view of this, we will hold the vote by using a ballot counting machine instead of a raise-up vote. [[György Balla: He hasn't come yet!]] In accordance with the motion, I am now asking the Honourable Parliament to maintain the scope of the OE-42/410-1/2023. President's decision. Please vote by using a ballot counting machine. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: I declare that the Speaker's decision was maintained by 120 votes in favour, 3 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, I declare that the MSZP Group has proposed to supplement the agenda proposal, which is the House Rule 15. Paragraph 4a of the Rules of Procedure has been rejected, given that it is not subject to the provisions of Article 15 of the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Act on Parliament, it was submitted, and subject to Article 35 of the Act on Parliament. Paragraph 1 of the Act and Article 16 of the Rules of Procedure. Pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section 3 of the extraordinary sitting, only a single motion may be placed on the agenda, which shall be entitled to be placed on the agenda at the initiative of the extraordinary meeting, in this case one fifth of the Members of Parliament shall request. [[10.50]] The proposer of the rejected proposal initiated the repeal of the President's decision. The Parliament decides on this without debate, with a raise of hands. However, I would like to announce that Mr Bertalan Tóth has initiated a repetition of the vote using a ballot counting machine. In view of this, we will hold the raise-up vote by using a voting machine. In accordance with the motion, I am now asking the Honourable Parliament to maintain the scope of the OE-42/416-1/2023. President's decision. Please vote by using a ballot counting machine. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Speaker's decision was maintained by 119 votes in favour, 4 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. The Parliament decides on this by raising its hands. I would like to announce that Mr Timea Szabó has initiated a repetition of the vote using a ballot counting machine. In view of this, we will hold the vote by using a ballot counting machine instead of a raise-up vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by using a ballot counting machine. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the agenda by 115 votes in favour, 5 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, We are now continuing our work with general debates, and we are also taking a two-minute technical break. (Recess: 10.52-10.57) President: Dr. János Latorcai Note: Dr. Winner Vinnai and Dániel Z. Carpathian)
u2023-06-16-41	I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats so that we can continue our work. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the bill amending Act C of 1990 on local taxes will follow until closure. The presentation submitted by our fellow Members Balázs Győrffy, István Nagy, István Jakab and Zsolt Nyitrai, Fidesz T/4064. The Parliament's IT network is available to all of us. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, the Parliament must decide on a meeting matter. As rapporteur, Vice-President István Jakab wishes to speak during today's general debate. In the event of opposition by the representatives of the Vice-President, the sitting may be held in the course of further negotiations of a separate motion only if the Parliament agrees to do so. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to agree that Vice-President István Jakab will be able to lead the meeting during the further discussion of the proposal. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] It's a visible majority. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted my motion. Dear Parliament, I would like to start by giving the floor to Vice-President István Jakab, the rapporteur on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Mr. Vice President. You have the floor.
u2023-06-16-42	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The competitiveness of the agricultural and food economy is of particular importance to Hungary, the Hungarian national economy. Hungarian farmers must compete both at national, European and international level. During the past period, Hungarian farmers, the Hungarian agri-food economy, have faced a series of challenges. The Covid epidemic, the war and the resulting serious market disturbances, the loss of crops due to centuries of drought, the price and market-breaking impact of Ukrainian grain, with the European Commission guaranteeing the Ukrainian grain traders free of charge for this, this process has caused the fall in prices and had an extremely negative impact on the functioning of our traditional cereals markets. All these difficulties were compounded by Péter Márki-Zay's attack on Hungarian farmers, the candidate for the fallen left-wing prime minister. Márki-Zay did not try for the first time to introduce a land tax in Hódmezővásárhely, which he did with the expiry of the moratorium on the levying of new municipal taxes despite the protests of farmers in Hódmezővásárhely and some of the representatives. The example in Hódmezővásárhely was followed by an increasing number of left-wing municipalities competing with each other, with an increasing number of faces on Hungarian farmers. The National Chamber of Agricultural Economy and MAMAGOSZ, feeling this situation, have launched a petition against the land tax, in which farmers have confirmed with more than 120 thousand signatures the intention of abolishing the land tax that has been imposed so far and of establishing legislation that will never allow farmers to impose this new tribute, the land tax. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungarian farmers make every effort to ensure that the Hungarian people have healthy, high-quality food on their table at all times. CHAPTER XXI With the knowledge of the century, precision technologies are among the first to achieve major success in the application of digital systems in Europe. Hungarian farmers are able to maintain and even improve their competitiveness by using state-of-the-art technology, despite the expectations of the extremely green EU Commission, while protecting their environment and adapting to climate change. Obviously, this requires enormous resources. We therefore want to use our resources to modernise farming, to create, to preserve, and to improve our competitiveness. We have a huge task ahead of Hungarian farmers, because we need to fix up the infrastructure of the border, modernise the infrastructure of the border, develop irrigation systems, fix the infrastructures that enable us to compete at domestic, EU and international level. [[11.00]] Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Our bill aims at the prohibition of taxation of land, land ownership and property rights registered in the real estate register in Act C of 1990 on Local Taxes. I therefore ask with respect the support of my fellow Members for the adoption of the bill we have tabled in order to ensure that it is never again possible to sabotage Hungarian farmers with a land tax while drawing away their resources. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A big round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-06-16-43	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. With respect, Mr András Tállai, Deputy Minister of State, wishes to speak on behalf of the Government. [[András Tállai rises to speak.]] Yes, he does. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-06-16-44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In Hungary, municipal authorities are subject to a high degree of taxation autonomy resulting from the Fundamental Law. Local authorities are free to decide to introduce, for example, local construction tax for the taxation of buildings or local business tax for the activity of the local economy in the municipality. Local taxes of this type and revenue are typically mandatory in EU Member States even if the tax does not correspond to the specifics of the municipality. The Hungarian local taxation system therefore takes into account the different situation and characteristics of individual settlements, and does not force, for example, those settlements where it is not rational to operate a tax. Since 2015, in addition to the system of local taxation with a high degree of freedom to create local tax regulations, settlements can introduce so-called municipal tax and municipal taxes, which have even more significant degrees of freedom in their creation. With municipal taxes, the municipality can even more closely tailor the local burden-bearing system to the municipality. In fact, taxation at local level can be even more effective by allowing the municipality to decide on the subject matter, subject matter, extent, exemptions and discounts of the municipal tax. The legal limit is only that the subject of a public burden governed by other tax laws cannot be the subject of a municipal tax and the subject of a municipal tax cannot be an entrepreneur. At the same time, this high level of freedom in the area of municipal taxation poses the risk that the municipal tax created by the municipality will not necessarily be rational. Since 2023, more and more municipalities have introduced municipal taxes mainly on land, taking into account the fact that there was no possibility of introducing new local taxes in 2021 and 2022 and raising tax levels during the Covid epidemic. In view of this, the Government agrees with the proposal that it is appropriate to limit the possibility of creating a municipal tax regulation so that the municipal tax does not apply to land, land ownership, land rights, land property rights. I stress that the change in motion does not affect the broad local tax autonomy of municipalities and the introduction of municipal tax on other tax items. The unparalleled scope of taxation and freedom of local authorities in Europe will not be substantially reduced. Dear Parliament, Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-06-16-45	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Dear House, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr János Pócs, who will make his speech here on the pulpit stand. We're gonna wait for him to move up to the platform. [[János Pócs enters the speaker's stand.]] Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-06-16-46	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment of the Local Taxes Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2015, allowed local authorities to levy a municipal tax on any tax item in their jurisdiction that is not prohibited by the Law or which is not covered by the public burden governed by the Law. Péter Márki-Zay, the fallen Prime Minister's candidate on the dollar left, even despite the great indignation, has smeared the farmers to siphon them out. This proved that he did not care at all about people's fate and circumstances. The past period has been very difficult for everyone. Think of the Covid epidemic and then the outbreak of the Russian-Ukrainian war, with which the failed sanctions in Brussels came. Márki-Zay also does not care that last year, the historical drought hit 80 percent of Hungary's agricultural area, but only in Csongrád-Csanád County, drought damage was reported to nearly 100,000 hectares. Furthermore, in municipalities where there has already been a land tax, local authorities have granted exemptions to local farmers. It is no coincidence that farmers say that agriculture has two enemies: the weather and the left. The fallen mayor of Hódmezővásárhely as early as autumn 2020 [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] During the Covid epidemic, he wanted to sabotage local farmers and even vote for the general assembly of the town led by the left. Local Fidesz MEPs strongly protested against the new tax, and finally the government introduced it: the emergency government decree banning the introduction of municipal public burdens prevented the entry into force of the land tax. It also shows that the left can only think about tax increases and cuts. We have experienced this fact, this approach in my own constituency. Jászberény city has been in left hand since 2019. After their election, their first step was to raise the business tax to the ceiling. Here, too, the government's emergency order prevented them from being able to sabotage entrepreneurs. [[11.10]] I would like to deny the left's view of tax restrictions when I bring the facts of Jászberény here as an example. In Jászberény, the left-wing wanted to increase the tax revenue of the year 2020. The government has prevented and the city's tax revenue has not decreased, but has now increased to more than 3.8 billion. This year, the city's tax revenue will be one billion more than it was in 2020, and left-wing city management will give one third of the time for sport, culture and youth support. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us is not just about an amendment. It's so much more than that. It's about steering, it's about a difference of perspective. Before 2010, when the left was in government, there was no Covid, there was no war and no energy crisis due to sanctions. Yet, a month's pension, a month's salary, hospital daily allowance, prescription fees, schools were closed, 14,000 teachers were put on the street, family support was cut at an unprecedented level and taxes were constantly raised. Fidesz-KDNP took over the government in a difficult situation 13 years ago, not raising taxes to boost the economy, but, as a first step, reducing corporate income tax from 19% to 9 percent. This was the basis for the recovery of the economy, that we could introduce a pension premium, that we could grant and give 13 months' pensions, that we could provide unprecedented family support, that we raised wages in all spheres, that we introduced full séja-free for young people. Ladies and gentlemen, We need to see: from the results of the last 13 years, the left has learned nothing, even though the formula is simple. When people do what they do, they always get what they get. It is therefore fortunate for Hungary that the Prime Minister is not called Márki-Zay. Márki-Zay didn't learn from the ugly fall, his attitude remained the same. He has again presented to the general assembly the proposal to pay an annual tax of ten thousand forints per hectare for owners of ploughing, gardens, orchards and vineyards of more than four hectares. The town's left-wing assembly voted for this by a majority. DK and MSZP representatives do not care that the land tax will also hit pensioners whose land is the only source of income in addition to their low pension. The National Chamber of Agricultural Economy and the Association of Hungarian Farmers' and Farmers' Cooperatives. He launched a petition titled "At least 120 thousand people joined him, including István Nagy, Minister of Agriculture. This shows that many farmers have asked for the abolition of the land tax. I am also grateful to Balázs Győrffy and István Jakab, as well as to the actions of the Chamber of Agriculture, MAGOSZ, the protection of the interests of representing and protecting Hungarian farmers and the farming community. The bill states that the right to introduce a municipal tax on land, land or land will be abolished from 1 September 2023. There is no justification for the taxation of parts of the land registered as agricultural land. The failed Prime Minister candidate doesn't think about the consequences of his actions, it's a good thing he wasn't elected. Ladies and gentlemen, The tax is paid by the landowners, who therefore raise the rent of the land, and the tenants reload it to the customers. Another option is that the landowner directs the tax to the buyer and if he does not lease his land. The consequence is that although the buyer is in bad shape, this also causes price increases, so it increases inflation, which the government wants to reduce. I would like to quote the words of Minister István Nagy: "We are committed to the fact that agricultural land cannot form a tax base, and we will also enforce it by law; the government and farmers can always count on each other. We will not allow Hungarian farmers to be made impossible. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of what I have said in my speech, I welcome the decision of Minister István Nagy, Vice-President István Jakab, and my fellow Members Balázs Győrffy and Zsolt Nyitrai to initiate, draft and submit the amendment of the law. I and the Fidesz-KDNP Group Association will support the proposal so that we can all contribute to the further development and protection of agriculture. Please do the same. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A big round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-06-16-47	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Zsolt Gréczy, who is speaking from his seat. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-06-16-48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, What has happened so far on this subject in Parliament is very instructive. Fidesz speakers and authors talk about this story as if it were an opposition fight, and there is that ugly Márki-Zay Péter in Hódmezővásárhely who wants to introduce land taxes and strike local farmers. There are enough problems with Péter Márki-Zay, including the fact that, even in April, Viktor Orbán carried a cokecock when he was still a member of Fidesz, even though he was supposed to wear the cokecock on 15 March. But the problem of Péter Márki-Zay is not the question of land giving. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] I would like to remind you that there are dozens of Fidesz mayors who have also introduced land taxes in recent years. This is not the private sin of Péter Márki-Zay, if it is a sin, but a lot of Fidesz municipalities have chosen the same solution. Now, of course, it is possible to decide not to do this, but not to pretend that Fidesz stands up here for farmers and fights with his blood for the Hungarian land, and at all costs to protect the Hungarian farmers on the moon, when quite simply the opposite happened. For example, Gergely Gulyás said on a government briefing that the land tax had not yet been levied. That wasn't true when Gergely Gulyás said that at the Government Info. For example, there are a lot of Fidesz settlements: according to the data of the Hungarian State Treasury, almost a hundred Hungarian settlements made use of the possibility given by the Orbán government to collect municipal tax on tax assets that are not subject to any other tax. As early as 2017, the World Economy wrote that 56 municipalities received income after agricultural land. So it wasn't Péter Márki-Zay who had just come up with something, it was 56 municipalities; it was in 2017. The land tax mainly played an important role in the management of the municipality in the lives of smaller settlements, in many places after the local business tax and the communal tax, it was the highest income for the municipality. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Pro-tax raiser.]] It is important that this is contrary to the normative subsidies received from the central budget, it is not labelled, i.e. it was used by the locality for what it would like. So they could have spent it on the operation, but they could have used it for social purposes. It was possible to levy the land tax since 2015, so the land tax was not introduced by the Gyurcsány government, but it was introduced by the Orbán government, which called itself the government of tax reductions, while we know that the Orbán government has introduced at least 50 taxes since 2010, which did not exist before 2010. The National Chamber of Agriculture and the Association of Hungarian Farmers and Farmers' Associations have launched a petition against the land tax, which has been signed by 120,000 people, including several prominent personalities. It is somewhat nuanced by the authenticity of the petition that this year Tibor Sóláth, Vice-President of the NAK, who has been controlling Hajdúnánás in the colours of Fidesz, expects 44 million HUF of the land tax. So the Fidesz government has announced that you expect so much money from the land tax you're about to abolish. [[11.20]] The fundamental problem is that the municipalities were bled out by the Orbán government, there is no adequate source for the operation of the municipalities to exist, and therefore they were forced to resort to options that were otherwise offered by the Orbán government and used to ease the burning shortage of money. According to information provided by one of the economic news portals, there are 55 municipalities in the country where the government's budget decree shows that they will surely expect revenue from the taxation of agricultural land. They used the MAK database as a starting point. In these about a hundred settlements, they looked at the tax items covered by the municipal tax regulation or the municipal tax part of the local tax regulation. The news portal found that most of the areas registered in various agricultural sectors were taxed to a small extent on other tax items, such as high constructions, fishing and the rest and others. Revenue is needed in many places, and by the way, Hódmezővásárhely is the only municipality in opposition control, among those that have imposed this particular land tax. There are either fidesz leadership in all other places, or there are obviously independent independents who are not far from Fidesz. There have been issues that are not very appropriate here in the keynote speech, such as sanctions and war and so on. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Jászberény!]] I would like to point out that the sanctions were voted by only one Hungarian politician, it was Viktor Orbán, no one else voted on the sanctions for Hungary, this opportunity was offered only to him by history, and he voted in favour of these sanctions, which are therefore also affecting Hungary. Orbán thus gave his name to a package of proposals that hit Hungary. Then it is also very important, I think, that the fact that there is a record of inflation in Europe is also affecting the municipalities at present. In Hungary, inflation is higher than in the war-torn Ukraine, and Hungarian inflation is three times the average inflation rate in the European Union. It is no coincidence that the municipalities are in such trouble at the moment and are somehow trying to obtain the revenue needed for their operating costs. For this reason, it is not acceptable that in this extremely critical economic situation produced by the Orbán government, we see the budget figures, that they are virtually not credible at the moment of submission, and I will give you a concrete example of this. Mihály Varga here said in his ministerial exposé that EU funds were included, for example, in next year's budget, the EU funds that we would very much like to see coming. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: There's no need to stop it!]] but these resources are not yet available. I know what Fidesz MEPs are going to say, that left-wing liberals and other Members are preventing these EU funds from arriving. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Gyurcsány told me!]] No, no, no, not Ferenc Gyurcsány, but the thefts of the Orbán government, corruption and the abolition of the rule of law prevent these funds from arriving in Hungary. However, the European Union has also made this clear to the government in a number of other ways. And speaking of these money, how do we plan a budget for 2024 without even knowing the numbers 2023? We also see that the Prime Minister's radio interview today also revealed that if he sensed that inflation would not decrease as quickly as he had previously thought it would. He said that inflation would be one-digit by the end of the year, and now I see it, and I'm peeling it out of his words, and he sees that that's not gonna happen either. So all the numbers on which the budget is based simply don't stop, they don't exist. If a year ago someone thought... it was also unthinkable that Hungary would not receive EU funds, and now we are here in this shame that Hungary is the only country that cannot obtain these funds. And after the country does not have access to these resources, the municipalities do not have access to them. Therefore, the municipalities cling to all possibilities and seek a way to somehow keep the settlement entrusted to them, the people, and the Orbán government does not give them any help in doing so. I therefore believe that the bleeding of municipalities is a historical sin, and the bill that stands before us could, in principle, have fair intentions in the event that I do not label the only opposition authority to levy this tax. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Jászberény!]] While there are dozens of Fidesz municipalities using the same option. Land taxes are just one of the stories that hit local governments. They took away health and education institutions from the municipalities, so there are a number of stories that did not strengthen the local government in Hungary, and this is also the fault and sin of the Orbán government. If there were to be a tax on land, there would be other options here, since there are entrepreneurs with huge land, not far from Fidesz, and I cannot now call them the green barons, who certainly own most of the agricultural land, for example, they could be taxed in connection with their multi-billion-dollar income. In smaller areas, farmers' burdens, the Democratic Coalition also thinks that they should not be increased. It is very important that agricultural subsidies arrive in Hungary. Fortunately, these funds are still coming, but I think it would be in everyone's interest to develop a new type of regulation, even in cooperation with the local authorities. If you want to generate a small amount of public revenue and even live up to justice, and you think it's important what people think about this, for example, farmers who only farm on a few moons, who, say, own half of the counties over the Danube on the same basis or anywhere else in the country, for example, could tax more. I think that there would also be consensus on the opposition and on the pro-government side. I think it's worth considering. Finally, I would like to ask that... Obviously, all pro-government speakers here will say that because the opposition and the left cast the land tax on poor farmers, it simply does not correspond to reality. Land taxes are imposed by local authorities that have the potential to do so at all, people and companies still exist in the territory of the municipality and in the vicinity of the municipality. That's one of them. And the other is that if you want to close this loophole, it's obviously that the Fidesz municipalities that are about to lose these revenues that you've been expecting are obviously going to demand somewhere to compensate for it. I'm also wondering how that's gonna happen. Hopefully not with the introduction of another tax or a tax increase. Thank you for your attention.
u2023-06-16-49	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-06-16-50	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear tableds, We also heard a creed in Zsolt Gréczy's speech. He put faith in two things, his faith in the tax increase and his faith in Péter Márki-Zay, and he defended Zsolt Gréczy throughout his speech. He said how good it is to have a land tax, how good it is to have it out, so the municipalities could use it for social purposes! It's the typical, slashed [[Zsolt Gréczy: I didn't say that!]] , typical, overworked left-wing behaviour when they think about the policy of tax increases. Remember what happened before 2010! [[Zsolt Gréczy: You introduced him!]] The taxes were constantly increased more than 50 times during the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments. The Fidesz-KDNP government has reduced taxes more than 80 times since 2010, ladies and gentlemen. You can tell the difference from here. How interesting that Zsolt Gréczy has such a selective memory, he does not remember that all 30 sectors of agriculture were in crisis before 2010 and farmers had to take part in a demonstration to pay them at all what was due, honourable Member, according to the law. So you and the Church have talked about this yesterday, but you also withheld from farmers what was rightfully theirs. So left-wing governments had the nerve not to pay farmers what they owed them. [[11.30]] This is also an interesting situation, as you are here protecting Péter Márki-Zay. Well, we know he was your Prime Minister's candidate, Prime Minister's candidate Ferenc Gyurcsány, Prime Minister's candidate Szabó Timea, Prime Minister's candidate Zsolt Gréczy and Prime Minister's candidate Tamás Mellar. You can remember, then the Pécs can remember. [[Interjection in the ranks of Fidesz: Yes!]] that Tamás Melár opened his campaign with Péter Márki-Zay and ended his campaign with Péter Márki-Zay. László Szakács was there, honourable fellow Members; he is not here at the Parliament, because he has lost. Congratulations to my colleague Peter Hoppál. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál nodds.]] Well, the thing is, Tamás Mellar stood next to Péter Márki-Zay, and he wanted him to be Prime Minister of the country. Zsolt Gréczy stood next to Péter Márki-Zay, who wanted him to be Prime Minister of the country. And the same can be said of the faction that is not present here, because of the factions that do not enter their workplace. Where is the speaker from the LMP fraction? Where is the speaker from the Momentum fraction? Where is the speaker from the MSZP fraction? Where's the speaker from the Jobbik faction? Well, we could ask these questions where these Members are in such an important debate. Zsolt Gréczy, honourable Members, who defended Péter Márki-Zay and the tax increase, remained in his place. [[Zsolt Gréczy: You're lying again!]] The fact is that I do not think it is right for us to pursue a policy that favours left-wing tax increases and is constantly tax-thinking, which we have just heard from Zsolt Gréczy, and, unfortunately, what Hungarians, especially Hungarian farmers, have experienced before 2010. Here was Péter Márki-Zay, the fallen prime minister of the dollar-left, and the majority of the left-wings who supported him introduced the land tax to the Hódmezővásárhelyi local government, which owns and leases over four hectares. The new left-wing tax increase on landowners and farmers in Hódmezővásárhely is outrageous and unacceptable at a time when sanctioned inflation affects farmers who have to manage higher commodity prices. In addition, farmers are beyond a particularly devastating drought year, which has hit producers in the South lowland even more than the national average. After the drought of the century and the drastic increase in energy and feed prices due to sanctions, Hungarian farmers should not be punished, but helped. In Csongrád-Csanád County alone, more than 100,000 hectares were hit by drought last year. The national Christian Democratic Government stands by Hungarian farmers in times of danger and we help them. The government announced a moratorium on the repayment of agricultural loans in order to protect Hungarian farmers. 7500 agricultural enterprises do not have to pay any repayments or interest for 16 months after a loan of HUF 285 billion. These are facts, fellow Members. The government wants to reduce the damage to farmers due to the drought last year, so agricultural irrigation is free of charge this year. Somehow, Mr Gréczy's speech did not include the fact that this year the government made agricultural irrigation free. The government imposed an import ban on 25 product types from Ukraine, including rape, sunflower seeds, flour, food oil and certain meats. This also protects the interests of Hungarian farmers, Hungarian agriculture and Hungarian consumers. Somehow, that's not what the left-wing lead speaker said. Support for Hungarian agriculture is the largest in Europe. In addition to the CAP support, the maximum amount of national co-financing is 80 per cent, uniquely throughout the EU. Then, of course, in our country, the congressman seeks relief and refuge, when he realizes that what he has said is against reality. [[Zsolt Gréczy: You're sick!]] It's against reality, and it's trying to find a self-certification. How much was the co-financing before 2010, Congressman Gréczy? Do you know how much co-financing was for EU funds? [[Zsolt Gréczy and Dr. István Apáti intervene. The president's ringing the bell.]] Because now the maximum is 80 percent. We're talking about quite different amounts. The five-year EU framework of the overall CAP strategy plan amounts to HUF 3255 billion, of which HUF 630 billion can be spent on rural development, supplemented by co-financing of HUF 2520 billion and domestic co-financing. Thus, a total of HUF 5775 billion will be available for the sector in five years. At Hódmezővásárhely, Magosz and NAK launched a petition to protest against the land tax introduced by your Prime Minister's candidate and planned by other left-wing town leaders. [[Zsolt Gréczy: They hit the Fidesz!]] My colleague Pócs also mentioned Jászberény. I remember Zsolt Gréczy's press statement that the mayor won in Jászberény with the powerful help of DK, and thanks to DK he became mayor at all. You said so yourself, honourable Member, back in January. They immediately began to think of a tax increase there too, honourable Member, with your help, of course. The agricultural organisations asked Péter Márki-Zay to stop playing, Hungarian farmers should not be put at a disadvantage, as they have to compete in an open market with other EU Member States. Hungarian farmers should not be put at a competitive disadvantage by criminal taxes. Since your candidate for Prime Minister of the Dollar Left has released the spirit from the bottle, and we know the tendency to raise taxes on the left, it is feared that the left would introduce the land tax throughout the country, where it will be given the opportunity to do so. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] For the record, Congressman Mellar nods a lot, he thinks this is the right direction. [[Dr. Tamás Mellar nods.]] you have to run the land tax, you have to nod, you have to sabotage the farmers. [[Dr. Tamás Mellar: I will tell you.]] He'll tell you soon enough, he says. Well, these are the left-wing tax increases. Whatever happens in this country, good or bad, it's years of money or years of crisis, you always go to the tax increases, you always think of something about raising taxes. I don't know why this is such a left-wing attitude, and this will be solved by political philosophers, but I think it's wrong for you to keep trying to raise taxes. We must act against this, against your behaviour and against your plans, by the national Christian Democrats supporting Hungarian farmers, the Hungarian agriculture. The previous amendment of the Local Taxes Act, which entered into force, allowed local authorities to levy a municipal tax on any tax item in their jurisdiction which is not prohibited by law and which is not covered by a public burden governed by law. The bill before us now states that the right to introduce municipal tax on land, land or land should be abolished. The current bill therefore protects Hungarian farmers and consumers from left-wing tax increases. We, Fidesz and KDNP will continue to do our best for Hungarian farmers and Hungarian agriculture. It will be perfectly clear in the vote on the current bill: whoever supports this bill supports the tax reduction, who rejects this bill, is in favour of tax increases. We will support this bill. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-16-51	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the group of our country is Mr István Apáti. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-06-16-52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Of course, the Hungarian Movement supports this proposal, since it is fundamentally appropriate that the introduction of a land tax should not take place in any way, in any way, with any wording, and that the burden should not be borne by Hungarian farmers. So we support the proposal. In fact, what I could do right now is finish my speech, sit down, and that's the end of the story. At the same time, I need to highlight some contexts and some of the things that we would like to see here, in the Group of Our Country, with regard to the representation of farmers and the reduction of the burden on farmers. I would very much like it, honourable members of the Government, if you were to be overwhelmed by the same overwhelming will, amazing heat and momentum when, let us say, other problems of Hungarian farmers should be addressed, or other obstacles should be removed. Without the need for completeness, let me tell you some, which, by the way, puts a much greater burden on Hungarian farmers, both 10,000 forints/hectare or twenty thousand forints/hectare tax, if any. At the same time, of course, we condemn and strongly criticize those who introduce land taxes, but I note that we measure them fairly, with a uniform standard, not with double standards such as, where appropriate, the left or you, because we also condemn and do not agree if Péter Márki-Zay is about to introduce this, but we also agree that if, say, Tibor Sóláth wishes to introduce and maintain this in Hajdúnánánás, he should have any revenue from this to his local government. Well, then, if you say 'a', say 'b', and don't pretend that you're only being introduced by some of the prominents on the Balliberal side, or by a former candidate for Prime Minister, if any, because it's just as ugly as Mr Sóláth's intention to introduce it. So please inform the Vice President of the NAK that it might have been of his own free will to abolish it or perhaps not to introduce it. Of course, there is another side or edge of the coin that you have actually bled out the municipalities for the past 13 years. This blood drain has been going on for 33 years with regard to municipalities, which has accelerated over the past 13 years. They simply cannot obtain adequate revenues in any way. Let's not forget that. [[11.40]] In the past, the car tax remained with the municipalities. And then you said that only 40 percent of them could stay with them, which means 60 percent of them have been centralised, taken away, and finally, they've been talking about the Covid crisis, and they haven't been reclaimed since. Most municipalities have very little opportunity to obtain local tax revenues except for some municipalities with exceptional circumstances. However, I consider this to be a proposal of a more agricultural or agricultural nature, so without the need for completeness, partly linked to or continuing with my speech before the agenda, let me tell you a few very important problems that are far more difficult for farmers than what is in this proposal, or that will be eliminated or excluded. One is that, in terms of price stops or price restrictions, it might be appropriate to reflect on the fertiliser, chemical and fuel prices for farmers or farmers, as you will increase excise duty from 1 January 2024 on the relevant legislation, which will increase by at least HUF 40 per litre. But here's the solution, as well as a proposal for a solution, according to our country's custom. Think about raising the quantity per hectare, trained in litres, in relation to the recovery of excise duty. In Hungarian, farmers can claim excise duty back much more from 1 January 2024 than, say, this year, because the rate of excise duty has remained unchanged for many years. This area also depends on cultivation, because it does not matter whether we are talking about pasture, plowing or or fruity. It is linked to how many litres of gas oil can be recovered within a year; therefore, it is accurate. I remember 72 forints per litre, but if it's a little more or less, I apologize if I'm wrong. It would be appropriate to increase this quantity in order to compensate farmers somehow for the difficulties arising from increased gas oil prices. However, a bigger problem is, as I said before my agenda, what happened with the prices of chemicals and fertilizers, especially in the last two years. Two hours ago, I spoke about the fact that many of the essential chemicals used in large quantities by farmers, fungicides, pesticides cost us at least twice as much as in Poland. At least twice as much is given by the largest Hungarian distributors as the largest Polish distributor, which is probably not justified by anything in the world other than profit hunger, hyena view. This affects farmers significantly more than the undoubtedly important proposal that we are discussing here. If you would be kind enough to give a ceiling or in some way, or in the context of legitimate political interest, to influence their appetite for profit by chemical and fertilizer distribution companies, because the fertilizer front is the same. I would like to raise one more important problem for you. In many cases, low-quality chemicals and fertilisers are sold to Hungarian farmers by some distributors. We've met someone in the near future that I'm going to show this to the public that there are 35 percent less active substances in the chemical than in the chemical component section. We're meeting fertilizers that don't want to dissolve the goddamn god, not even under precipitation. Of course, these are also sold at diamond prices. This can only be done with Hungarian farmers! I ask that the MAMAGOSZ and the NAK, too, take advantage of their influence and fight for the Hungarian farmers. Do not stop to abolish the land tax, to exclude the possibilities of land taxing, because we have been talking about multiple costs over the last two or three years, and we feel that Hungarian farmers are once again viewed as prey to be hunted down in the whole European Union, a pull-off mark or a bird. So much for chemical, fertilizer and fuel prices. There would be plenty of interest here. I would ask István Jakab and everyone who deals with Hungarian agriculture in the ranks of the governing parties to try much more to what they are trying to do: stand on the side of the farmers, farmers, the family farms of the farmers or agricultural companies. On the side of those who slowly bleed to death in this struggle. You have two-thirds of the potential, you cannot rely on anyone, you cannot rely on any external circumstances in this regard. I'll give you a few examples without the need for completeness. The main problems here are the buying-in prices, the treatment of producers, the vulnerability to large sharks. It's enough to think about the waterfowl farmers, ladies and gentlemen. They're fooled by the feed, the food distribution with the active substances. It may be a small item per delivery, but it comes to a huge amount of money at a large manufacturer, even for a month. When waterfowl farmers, wage fattening farmers, surrogate farmers take the animals to the slaughterhouse to deliver them, imagine that they are not allowed to be present for certification. The rating guys can call it whatever they want. They are pulled down by millions of forints per rating, after which there are hardly any remedies and other options. They can't go after him legally or financially. Saying that the animal is the property of the person who carries out the certification. Well, it's certainly not co-ordinated, it's very far from honest, fair, just, national, Christian, conservative, patriotic attitude! That I'd bring in that animal, like a duck, a goose, that I'd fattened for weeks and months, and then I'd stop at the gate, and they'd shut me out, and I wouldn't be able to go in, and then they'd give me the status they needed, which they wouldn't be ashamed of. And I could say for a long time that the buying-in prices are barely keeping them on a ventilator, let's say, waterfowl farmers. But I could say the same for the fruit and vegetable front. You are probably aware that the buying-in prices for basic vegetables and fruits are the same, and are not expected to be much higher this year than they were five or even ten years ago. Just where they are, in five to ten years, where the aforementioned fuel, chemical and fertilizer prices and wages have increased. I have the feeling, honourable members of the government, that big buyers and traders see it as stupid at a level that, if the national capitalists like the Hungarian peasants are always draining so much blood, they are always gutting it to the point of just letting them live so that they can continue to work. That perhaps the hope that it is worth working on is to struggle from 1 January to 31 December, from Monday to Sunday, in case the next year is better. Many producers feel that they actually produce the raw material for profit for traders, whether they are vegetables, fruit or live animals, because they do not enrich the fruit of sweaty work. You don't think there's anything we can do here? I am definitely biased with the subject, and I admit that in a masculine manner, the apple that comes from us in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, say, 90, 100, possibly 120 HUF, is bought from the producer, from the tree or from the garden, which I see in Budapest for 500-600 HUF, but only for the poor quality edition. Many times for 500-600 forints Pest and the big cities, the quality that we might be ashamed to put into the juice and leave under the tree. That the multi- or Budapest dealer will take five or six times the price, no matter what the origin of the trader? Do you think this will not sooner or later discourage Hungarian peasants not only from production but also from life? Is that what they're doing? That's why you're risking it? Is that why banks are holding on to people who even have credit? Is that why you pay the ever-increasing wages? Should they struggle with the labour force that, with the rare exception, also destroys their nervous system? I think that if some of the pro-government representatives, especially those who have nothing to do with agriculture, were to struggle for a month with the quality of the labour that remained in the Hungarian countryside so as not to make any other serious statements, I think they would consider the real value of the milk, bread, vegetables, fruit or any kind of meat that you might eat next to Sunday lunch. And then, as a result of this work, there is an extremely modest profit, if at all possible. [[11.50]] Are you aware that the Ukrainian grain situation has left a lot of people no longer sowing this year? Or is it just something that's going to have a low cost? Because they can sell at a cost price because of Ukrainian grain. Then who will pay the price of the war? Not the Hungarians? Not the Hungarian producers? Not the Hungarian peasants? Yes, you can. Then don't pretend to protect the Hungarian farmers. They couldn't protect the Hungarian farmers either. And in the case of those who are mechanized, they have invested in machines and have based most of their agricultural business on wage work, because, after many do not sow, there will, of course, not be a need for mechanical work. They usually have a significant loan pool, and they're gonna be ruined. There's a domino effect, one fall after another. I would also like to hear such lively speeches from you. And such extremely brave legislative proposals, and not even legislative measures, can be seen at different levels. Because not all of the things I'm talking about right now necessarily require legislation or intervention. For example, changing the rules for water wings rating, changing the buying-in conditions. You know, the most terrible thing to say is that however conscientiously, professionally, with serious mental and physical work the Hungarian peasants produce, apart from the rare exception, mainly because of the outrageous purchase prices, because of the commercial mafia, because of the Mafia, they are practically on the ventilator of EU subsidies. If we were to remove EU subsidies, either on a normative basis or on a tender, with the exception of a rare exception, it would be destroyed by most of the most professional, skilled, night-to-day working farmers without their own fault, mainly because there are no normal buying-in prices, but there is a one-sided, pro-trade, pro-TÉSZ and multi-party approach. You will allow this to flourish, because there has not yet been any particular dissatisfaction among the Hungarian peasantry, or at least not yet on the streets. What I am asking of you is that these problems should also be addressed as soon as possible for the well-thought-out interests of all of us. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-06-16-53	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the Dialogue Group is Mr Tamás Mellar. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-06-16-54	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, The basic purpose of the bill before us is to prohibit local governments from imposing taxes on the ground. The speakers before me said that my fellow Member, Mr Gréczy, said that it was obviously a practice that was produced by the pressure, because the small municipalities had no other opportunity, they could not impose a business tax, because they did not have a strong industry, and they were trying to obtain revenue from it. It is quite obvious that if the government decides not to grant this option, it should give another option in some normative way, but so that each municipality can achieve it in some way and thus compensate for its losses. But basically, this is not the essential element of this bill and its amendment, but rather the fact that it is actually a self-explanatory bill, because it highlights the essence of the NER system. The NER system is a feudal vassal system in which our Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, our Prime Minister, gives the land to his vassals, who therefore submit to him, owe him gratitude and service. In such a system, it is clearly not possible for someone else, such as the local authorities, to claim the right to the land, to levy a tax on it, since Hungary is the sole property of the vassal, so only he can make provision for it. John Locke, XVII. According to Congressman Nacsa's view, he was probably a left-wing liberal thinker who first raised the need for a land tax as a single tax, and then later, the 19th century. At the end of the 20th century and at the end of the 20th century At the beginning of the century, Henry George launched the single taxi movement, which also set out to impose a single tax, and this only tax should be a land tax. Why did these thinkers say that? By the way, Henry George's movement had many representatives in Hungary, many from József Antall said so. Because land ownership is a thing, the land is something that is not free to breed, that is, a natural monopoly, and if it is a natural monopoly, then a natural monopoly generates annuity income, and this income must be enjoyed by the community or, if it is not so, by individuals, it must at least be taxed. This is the general principle that I think it is very important to bear in mind for all of us when we talk about this issue. Thus, we should obviously make the land tax general, and it would be appropriate to give it to the municipalities, precisely because they are the closest to the land, they have a register, and not least with this step, the funding of the municipalities could actually be straightened out. But, of course, I understand the arguments of pro-government representatives. They said three things in this regard: on the one hand, the land tax will make agricultural products more expensive, so ultimately people without land will pay for it in higher prices. Two: it would undermine our international competitiveness in agricultural products. Three: it would put small farmers in a difficult position to sell their land and thus increase land concentration. But none of the arguments are correct. If land taxes were introduced, this would encourage farmers not to produce low added value cereals, maize, but rather products with higher value added, such as vegetables, fruit and similar things. Our international competitiveness on the agricultural front is still very bad and very low because we produce in an extensive way and bring unprocessed products to the world market. If this were to change and we went to the food economy, then, according to József Ángyán's calculations, for example, the earth's ability to sustain would be much higher, because according to his calculations, a medium-sized economy employs one person per 9.5 ha, while an employee falls to 40 hectares for the large ones and the large ones with extensive production. The levying of land taxes should be strictly progressive. This is a very important element. I would also like to note this from the pro-government representatives. In other words, there would be a tax-free limit, for example, 50 hectares, or 50 hectares of land would not have to pay land taxes. This would obviously enable small and medium-sized producers to be supported and kept in position, and above that would be a highly progressive tax system. So the bigger the estate, the higher the land tax should be on a pro rata basis. We also need to see statistical data in this respect that Hungary is one of the most powerful and largest concentration of land in the world. Today, land ownership in Hungary is much more concentrated than it was between the two world wars. The land auction was intended to serve the purpose of the land for the farmers' movement to provide land for as many farmers as possible. Instead of thirty thousand farmers, only 3758 were found in the program in the middle of the previous decade. Over the last ten years, land concentration has increased, resulting in currently 120 thousand fewer agricultural holdings. Overall, it can be seen that only 20 percent of the foreclosed state land was sold to small family farmers. [[12.00]] So I think it is quite clear that there is a need to introduce a system here that would help small and medium-sized farms, help them, and large farms, and that is the most important element of this matter for landowners who are only landowners but do not produce at all, well, those who should be taxed very strongly. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] International examples also show that small and medium-sized holdings can be internationally competitive. Examples of this can be given in France, or the Netherlands, Denmark, where the average size of the land is somewhere between 50 and 100 hectares, and thank you very much, they can make a very good living, and the Netherlands is sure to have much higher per capita agricultural exports than in Hungary. So it is not true that only these large giant companies can be truly competitive, such as the Bonafarm of Csányi or the other large owner, Zsolt Nyerges's Mezort Zrt. In Hungary, 3 000 hectares of land are not rare, while in France 270 hectares of land are considered to be very large. So the main thing I would like to say to you here is that it is not a story, let there be no misunderstanding that I want to sabotage or impose additional taxes on small and medium-sized farmers living in agriculture, that is not the case. Rather, it is a tax that should be imposed on those who have bought themselves in the last decade and have acquired land in huge quantities, from artificial nails to car dealers and successful lawyers, who, at the moment, realize an income like an allowance, and to do so, the EU's land-based support is added, thus earning income without work. And you're telling me, we're not just okay with this, that they're earning annuity income without work, but we're not even taxing it at all. I don't know how compatible this is with Christian morality, but I think it's not at all. Congressman Nacsa is terribly upset about this, but if he really is a Christian man [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Christian!]] then he must, too, and he should accept that it is not right for someone to earn income without work and not even pay taxes on it. By the way, should I tell you how many acres of property are owned here in Parliament? [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Ferenc Gyurcsány, Timföldgyár!]] Because I can tell you who has over 200 acres and who has over 100 acres. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: I don't have one!]] Is it okay that they don't have to wear public space? I don't think so. So here's a moral problem that needs to be solved. Don't try to hide behind the protection of small farmers, because they're not trying to protect small farmers, they're trying to protect free earners. Moreover, this is not only a moral issue, but also an economic issue, because it is a normal, I stress, a progressive land tax system, which has a lower preferential part, i.e. that it does not have to pay taxes, would be much more economical and would serve the competitiveness of the Hungarian agriculture. I therefore call on the authors to withdraw this proposal and try to introduce a decent land tax law that could ensure that the agricultural economy is renewed and that this traditional extensive development is not achieved. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2023-06-16-55	Thank you, Mr Tamás Mellar, for his speech. I salute my fellow Members. I wish you good parliamentary work today. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No one asked for a word for two minutes. There will now be further speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Nitrai, Fidesz.
u2023-06-16-56	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for the word and opportunity. Today we are discussing an extraordinary item on the agenda. Elimination and prohibition of land tax introduced by the Left [[Zsolt Gréczy: You introduced it in 2015!]] it affects not only Hungarian farmers, but all Hungarian citizens. This situation is, of course, and unfortunately not without precedent. Before 2010, in the Gyurcsány-Bajnai era, the left did not represent the interests of Hungarian farmers, wanted to sell the Hungarian land to foreigners, and did not stand up for the interests of Hungarian farmers in Budapest or Brussels. We can't be surprised that host demonstrations have been sustained during this period. Dear Parliament, At the end of last year, the body led by the Left Prime Minister's candidate introduced the land tax in Hódmezővásárhely. After a historical drought, the Left Prime Minister's candidate, in a war situation with increased energy prices, even hits local farmers with an extra tax. This is, in our view, an extremely serious and wrong, wrong move. The Hungarian farmers, organisations representing the interests of Hungarian farmers, the National Chamber of Agriculture and the Association of Hungarian Farmers and Farmers. They, seeing the amok run in Hódmezővásárhely with their hands off the farmers' land! No more land taxes. They started to collect signatures with the title of the land tax introduced and its extension. In a short time, over 120,000 people signed this petition. Dear Parliament, Thank you all for your support for this highlighted, important goal by signing it. On behalf of our group, I would like to thank the farmers and volunteers who participated in the collection of signatures. I would like to thank Balázs Győrffy and István Jakab, the farmers' representatives, for their firm stand in favour of this matter and for going forward every day until this draft law has been drawn up on the subject that we can discuss today. It was equally important to support Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and the Ministry of Agriculture, and we also trust in the support of the Ministry of Finance. Dear Parliament, Why is that important? Land taxes do not only endanger farmers at the fairgrounds. In my opinion, if the Left were to form a government in Hungary, it would introduce this land tax nationwide. The land tax affects everyone, it affects everyone, because sooner or later it will be incorporated into food prices, so it will affect every citizen's wallet. That is why I believe it is important that Parliament adopts this law by a large majority and guarantees that such a tax cannot be levied in the future. We protect Hungarian farmers both in Budapest and in Brussels. Hands off the land of Hungarian farmers! No more land taxes. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-06-16-57	Thank you very much, Congressman Zsolt Nitrai. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, DK.
u2023-06-16-58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Let's get some things straightened out here. This is where the amazing lie was told by MEPs Lőrinc Nacsa and Zsolt Nitrai that the land tax introduced by the left was introduced. The land tax was introduced by you, the Orbán government, in 2015. Stop lying to Parliament's record that the land tax introduced by the left when you introduced it. You invented it, you introduced it, you created the opportunity for the municipalities that you have bled out and condemned to destruction to receive revenue in some way. Don't lie to the Parliament's report about the land tax introduced by the left. The land tax was introduced by the Orbán government in 2015. They protect farmers in Hungary and Brussels by introducing a land tax. It is very, very spectacular now that a petition was launched against the Fidesz municipalities that introduced the land tax you created. [[12.10]] So I understand that you can write a lie opera now, and there's an aria like that in cultural history, but it's really amazing. But if you have seen that you have made a mistake and the Fidesz municipalities have imposed this tax on poor farmers and want to abolish it, then do not start a petition, but simply abolish the legal possibility of introducing a land tax. When the Hungarian man, the Hungarian buyer, looks at the Hungarian agricultural market or in any of the shops where the Hungarian agriculture is going, he is worried about why the Greek, Spanish or South America fruit and vegetables are much cheaper than Hungarian fruit and vegetables, while I think that the Hungarian farmer, working in the Hungarian agriculture, is really working with the blood and sweat of the Hungarian farmer who is working on the Hungarian soil to get that crop on the shelf of the Hungarians. Compared to this, a Hungarian person can buy a Hungarian product at a price of three times the price, if he wants to buy a Hungarian product, and of course in inflation in Orbán he is forced to buy the much more expensive vegetables. In the case of crops brought here from 10,000 kilometres away, this price increase and price difference can be clearly demonstrated. Well, you take care of Hungarian farmers so much, you take care of Hungarian agriculture and take care of the interests of Hungarian people, Hungarian agriculture and Hungarian farmers. Once again, don't lie to the Parliament's record again about the land tax introduced by the left. The land tax was introduced by the Orbán government in 2015, and this opportunity was used, not only by Péter Márki-Zay, but also by dozens of Fidesz municipalities, and introduced this land tax, has been imposed on farmers who are now so sorry for you. Thank you very much. [[Lot. Elizabeth Németh applauds.]]
u2023-06-16-59	Thank you, Congressman Zsolt Gréczy. Dávid Dócs, representative of our country, asks for two minutes.
u2023-06-16-60	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, I'm in a hurry because two minutes isn't gonna take much. I might as well be satisfied, because our slogan is: . Orbán, Gyurcsány, nor road tax, nor land tax, nor Szóláthót, nor Márki-Zayt, so this list begins quite well. However, I think the truth involves examining both sides of the coin. I also had the pleasure of working as mayor, which is why I know that the municipalities are indeed in a terrible bleeding situation. Unfortunately, this bleeding has continued in recent years, as in the Covid Kamunevű story, sources of revenue have been taken very seriously from the municipalities, and in whatever way the authorities called defence were expected to play a serious role. Now the problem was that I don't know how to keep a budget on the move during the year, because the amendment is fine, but I'm taking it off the revenue side during the year, while increasing the expenditure side, but at the end of the year I expect that poor municipality to close that year in order. The only thing about the land tax is that, even though it has come up as mayor here, in our corps too, I think that it is not the tax that has to be introduced, I am not particularly pro-tax, I am actually anti-tax, but I would like to say that bearing a common burden is another category, it would really be very important. We have seen that last year, which has tried most of the Hungarian families, there are also very rich entrepreneurs in the country whose assets have been doubled. I suppose they could put more in this hat, because there's something to it, we can see that. Therefore, I think it is a very good idea that the land tax itself cannot be introduced, that we should no longer hit farmers who have been hit by last year and who are constantly affected by the environment that now unfortunately reigns in the world, not to mention Ukrainian grain and a lot of other things, but my time is up. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2023-06-16-61	Thank you very much, Congressman Dócs. I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application, and therefore the general debate is closed. I ask you, on behalf of the authors, you would like to speak, Vice-President István Jakab, representative of Fidesz. [[For signal:]] You have the floor.
u2023-06-16-62	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your support, thank you for your criticism, and thank you for any well-meaning comments on behalf of the authors. I think that this day, this amendment of the law, is not suitable for conducting in-depth analyses covering all the parts of the Hungarian agricultural and food economy. I think that is not the subject of this amendment, so I think it is not expected of me now, but I cannot ignore some of the priority issues that farmers are facing. But first, let's stick to the subject: transmitter. First of all, I would like to thank my fellow government Members for their support for our proposals and for making some comments with a positive intention, which we will have to take to heart later, not particularly in relation to taxes, but in relation to operations. But I will do the same when the representative of our country has given support to vote in favour of the amendment. Obviously, I ask and expect my fellow Members to do so. The proposal was consciously short, not accidental, because I tried to show in an absolute professional way what it was like to have a farmer in a very diverse manner and in such an extraordinary situation. I don't have time, I don't want to go into details. Ukraine, the situation in Ukraine, the question of Ukrainian grain, has been mentioned. Well, my fellow Members, whether or not to do something, and what is happening now: I would like to say that there is obviously a living relationship from the moment the war broke out, and there are ongoing discussions. Then let's skip a big one: the fall in prices, the destruction of the market, the destruction of the market with Brussels assistance, the Commission's approval, and the re-introduction of total relief from customs duties, with Polish, Czech, Slovak, Hungarian, Romanian, Bulgarian and Latvian host representatives protesting in Brussels in order to eliminate this double standard. The fact is that it is not the decision of the Hungarian government, we did not grant a 100% tax exemption, we did not open the borders, and we did not set the grain. Unfortunately, I have to say for the future that the situation is serious today, but it is getting more serious, because we must continue to pay attention to the fact that the humanitarian corridors are not working, but that Europe is being flooded with Ukrainian grain in the coming period. In practice, we were now able to fight out on the initiative of the Hungarian government, and fortunately the others were on our side, that until 15 September we have the opportunity to list the four types of plants now, in the case of wheat, corn, rape and sunflowers, to maintain the ban on imports. But this is September 15th. Then, however, further steps will be needed. So here is a single, if you like, national stand-up and action to protect our markets, because it is not just that the quantity of goods is flowing in here, but that all of our traditional cereals markets have been laid down long ago, I would just like to say so. So we know this problem a little deeper, which is exactly why it is important that we do not draw funds from farmers in order to leave them all the income, help them prepare for the competition. The CAP strategy, our national strategy, was adopted by the European Commission as 13 of the 27 Member States. Thirteen! We've all worked so hard, professional organizations, chambers, interest representatives, to make it a success. We were able to move on time, and the government was able to add its own resources in time from the national budget. So we are not at a disadvantage in this sense. But it has to be seen that drought has indicated last year that there is a need for huge improvements, technologies that can reduce the effects of extreme climate change. [[12.20]] We need to take huge steps by introducing new plant species into cultivation, new plant species, and once again stressing it, because the climate is changing, and our climate will slowly be able to bring new plant species into public production. It's brand-new, the XXI. For the people of the century, food material and food production are important to their way of life. This is therefore a comprehensive, very strong programme requiring very serious resources. We have created the Drón Coalition, precision farming works, not only its education at the university is the first in the European Union, I add, but also the full application of digital systems. We are now able to manage and manage data-based farming, and I would just like to signal it. So we are not lagging behind, but we need to increase the pace of catching up. That's what the story is, and there's unity in it, and that's the unity we want to save. I am happy to talk to my fellow Member, István Apáti, on this subject, if you don't mind me saying so, I am not going to go into price analysis right now. I would just like to say, on the matter of fruit and vegetables, that we discuss daily with the President of FruitVeB, I think you know him well. I think that we, if somewhere, have a strong cooperation between farmers here, although if anyone knows the situation of Polish apple growers or Polish fruit growers, I have made a few trips, not just any road, and not just any farms and farms, so we have information, we have a living connection. But I would also like to tell you just one example, and I will conclude that when we discussed at the processing plant owned by Polish farmers, you got the phone: if you pay a single cent more for the apple, you will not buy one gram of the apple that you produce from which they will make the concentrate. He understands me. We are working to create a comprehensive, strong organisation that brings together the farmers of the European Union, because otherwise we will be in trouble. Because what Brussels is doing today is that they want to provide European farmers with a kind of skanzenlél, i.e. to take back production under strict conditions, and then, in the 41 million hectares of Ukrainian land, under intense conditions, to produce the grain that Europe needs. My fellow Members, that is what we need to think about in addition to their serious theories. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that I would like to say one more thing to my fellow Member Zsolt Gréczy, and here it came up why Péter Márki-Zay and why not the others. For the sake of clarification: 127 municipalities have introduced the land tax so far, 127 municipalities, and a little bit about the distinction: it was Péter Márki-Zay who launched an attack on farmers with great volume, very harshly when they were in the most difficult situation. One. Two, he was also the one who said that he had to settle the social costs of this, and that he had to provide the resources to sort out the different spaces of the city and other aspects, that was his idea. And then there was a lot of mention of Hajduna. Do you know how this system worked on Hajdúnánás? By levying taxes in cooperation with former farmers and landowners and using this tax to improve the infrastructure of the border in consultation with farmers. And it wasn't introduced just now, but earlier, it was created with host cooperation, which is why Tibor Sóláth is constantly mentioned. I would like to tell you that the former government will obviously withdraw this, and the former farmers will obviously find a way to continue to correct their own border, because it is no longer possible to travel on untraceable or untraceable roads with 200 million machines. It's part of life. Dear fellow Members, I think that there is a need for close cooperation here, not to draw it away, but to help farmers, because farmers pay taxes 100 times in other ways if they are competitive. That is why we have worked, and that is why we are working, and we want all of us to be successful in the future. Once again, I ask you to support our proposal, to support the amendment of the law, to help Hungarian farmers together. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-16-63	Thank you very much for the debate closing of the rapporteur, Mr István Jakab, Vice-President. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock next week to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, Following is the 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. Act XXXVI of 2013 on electoral procedure General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Presentation submitted by the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities T/4230. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Imre Ritter, President of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, author of the item, who presents the first sentences of his speech in the language of nationality, and then translates them into Hungarian. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-06-16-64	[[???Danke sehr! Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrter Herr Staatssekreter! Sehr geehrtes Parlament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, mein Exposé von hier, von dem Rednerpult aus, aus feierlichen Gründen zu halten.???]] Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Allow me to make the presentation of the agenda here, for the sake of solemnity, from the pulpit. For the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities and the indigenous nationalities in Hungary, it is always a holiday if we can submit a legislative proposal to the Hungarian Parliament, especially if we can do so as a national. More importantly, this amendment concerns the laws on the rights of Bulgarian, Greek, Croatian, Polish, German, Armenian, Roma, Romanian, Ruthenian, Serbian, Slovak, Slovenian and Ukrainian nationalities. This was also June 5th, and this is also today, when Parliament is discussing the bill that we tabled on behalf of the NEB. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me, as an introduction, to briefly commemorate and take a look back on the agenda. The Act LXXVII of 1993 on the Rights of National and Ethnic Minorities was adopted by Parliament thirty years ago on 22 July 1993. By doing so, a unique, exemplary system of national self-governments has been established to promote and promote indigenous nationalities in Europe. Thirty years of work are behind us, in which there have been successes and failures, joy and sorrow, permanence and change, preservation of values and many new tasks. It is safe to say that national, regional and local national authorities have always faced the challenges bravely, with exemplary efforts and decent human attitudes, doing their best to fulfil the tasks entrusted to them. They did so, and they did so in such a way that they could not be expected to pay for their work, they received and received the words of appreciation and encouragement from their own communities. On this day we should express our thanks to all the former and present-day national governments of all 13 indigenous nationalities in Hungary, the presidents and members, as well as the mayors, local government notaries, officials and employees, the staff of government offices and, of course, the specialists and decision-makers of the ministries who have helped to complete the noble idea of ethnic autonomy in Hungary over the last thirty years. And, of course, in the name of the 13 indigenous nationalities in Hungary, I thank the Government, Parliament, again and again. [[12.30]] Allow me, for one thought, to remember the first national presidents and representatives who have broken the road. Sadly, many of them are no longer among us, so let us salute in thought to their memory as well! The first minority born thirty years ago, then its successor, the law on the rights of nationalities has since been enriched with many amendments and clarification. These could be born, had to be born, because our ethnicity presence is growing, increasing, and the dynamic development of our cultural, educational and political autonomy practically requires changes in the legal environment as well. The fact that we ourselves, the minority advocates and myself as minority representatives can make these amendments within the framework of the Hungarian Parliament's National Committee is due to the important event of 10 years this year that the XXXVI of 2013 has been in force since 3 May 2013. Act No. 1 on the electoral procedure, which ensured the representation of nationalities in Hungary. On the basis of the first nine years of parliamentary representation, we can clearly conclude that it has brought historical opportunities and results to indigenous nationalities living in Hungary, which we thank many times, but this time again. After this brief reflection, allow me to describe as the author T/4230. CLXXIX of 2011 on the rights of nationalities. Act XXXVI of 2013 on electoral procedure Our bill to amend the law. The bill amending the law on the rights of nationalities has become timely on the basis of the experience of law enforcement and the feedback of representatives of nationalities. The proposal, in addition to technical clarifications, is set out in Njtv. , and CLXXXIX of 2011 on the local governments of Hungary. It aims to ensure consistency between laws, thereby helping the communities of nationalities to exercise their rights to self-government and self-determination in the fullest extent guaranteed by the Fundamental Law. The most important element of the bill is Article 4. §, that's Njtv. 56. Recast of §8 of the Act. The implementation of the census in 2021 had to be postponed to October 2022 in the light of the emergency situation associated with the corona virus pandemic. In view of the deferral, the official disclosure of data by the Central Statistical Office is expected in autumn 2023. Njtv is the way in which the national minority municipal elections are scheduled, conducted, and nominated. connects it to pre-election census data. In view of the general municipal elections to be held in 2024 it is necessary to amend the rules governing the establishment of elections for national authorities. Due to the scarcity of the time expected from the reporting by the HCSO, national minority authorities are not expected to have the possibility to conduct the current regulatory procedure. This would make it impossible to re-establish a number of minority self-governments established during the 2019 municipal elections. The proposal is the Njtv. 56. It provides a solution to the above problem by re-regulation of §8 of the Treaty. That's Njtv. This amendment removes a number of legal gaps, including legally misinterpretable, misinterpretable cases. Our amendment is almost 1. This is also the case, I quote: the 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. Act [... ] 2. The following subparagraph (d) is added to section 5 of Article 5: [... ]. ]........ (d) nationality theater: the theatre playing in a national minority language, recognised by the declaration of the national minority self-government, or the theatre playing in a Hungarian language, whose lectures, created by its creative communities linked to the particular nationality, essentially serve the needs of the native culture of this ethnic community and are linked to the socio-cultural background and traditions of the ethnic community;................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That's because it's Njtv. 2. Paragraph 5 of Section 5 lists the cultural institutions of nationality, and so far the theatres of nationality have not been included, in point (a) only the nationality public education institution, in point (b), the public collection of ethnicity tasks, in point (c), the ethnic community scene has been listed. This led to a specific situation where, for example, the President and notary of the county municipality contested that the ethnic theatre was a cultural institution of nationality, and only after the unanimous declaration of three ministers. This amendment clarifies the situation and prevents similar anomalies from occurring at a later stage. The aim of several amendments is to ensure that there are no other rules governing national authorities. and Njtv. to ensure consistency between the two sides. This is served by, for example, the 9th edition. § 8, regulation of the inclusion and certification of the representative in the database of non-public taxpayers, or Article 10. § 3, regulation of the termination of the Deputy Chairman's term of office. I would like to inform this House that the submission of the legislative amendment has been preceded by a broad inter-ministerial consultation of more than five months. I also sent the proposal to all parliamentary factions on the move, and I also consulted directly with the stakeholders. Prior to the submission, all 13 national minority authorities and members of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities were jointly in agreement with the package of proposals at the Prime Minister's Office, and the NEB voted unanimously at its meeting on 5 June 2023 to submit the proposal currently on the agenda to Parliament. I sincerely hope that, with this amendment, we will be able to create a clear situation for next year's minority self-government elections, its smooth implementation, and that the other minor or larger amendments will also help to ensure a clearer and easier application of the rules on nationalities. I look forward to your comments, opinions and questions on the bill, which I am willing to answer in the close of my authors or, if necessary, in the course of the debate. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit! [[Applause in the ranks of governing parties and ethnic advocates.]]
u2023-06-16-65	Thank you very much, Congressman Ritter, Mr President. [[Miklós Soltesz stands up.]] On behalf of the government, it appears that Secretary of State Miklós Soltész is preparing. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2023-06-16-66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, Speaker Woman and Speaker Lords! The government aims to preserve the culture of nationalities living with us, to nurture and develop their mother tongues, to ensure a wide range of individual and community rights, and also to reduce the number of abuses, thereby supporting the survival and value-creating work of national minority communities in Hungary. Since the entry into force of the 2011 National Rights Act, a number of amendments have been made. [[12.40]] The first piece of legislation adopted in December 2011 was important in itself, since a new timeline began in Hungarian nationalism policy: not in its numerical nature a minority approached our nationalities, but defined them in its quality. It has extended the range of national legal entities, strengthened and extended their individual and Community rights to preserve, care and strengthen their identity, and which is at least as important, to transfer them. With the amendment of the relevant legislation in 2013, the government repaid old debt when it granted our nationalities direct participation in the National Assembly. As a result, since 2014 a minority advocate has been able to represent all 13 nationalities in the Parliament, but it is also possible to obtain a preferential parliamentary mandate. Nationality advocates can express their views on all issues affecting the lives of nationalities in the home of the country. In 2018, and 2022, the German community, Mr President, was able to send its own parliamentary representative to Parliament. The third major step was the 2020 amendment. As a result, it was possible for national authorities to acquire the buildings necessary for the operation of the school, together with the infrastructure, when the educational institution is taken over by the local government. In addition, the amendment took further steps to reduce ethnobnis. It cannot be stressed enough that the preparation of the current amendments has always taken place in cooperation with the nationalities. It is symbolic of this fact that the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities is the author of the bill both in 2020 and now in 2023. This cooperation, which appears here, is outstanding, almost exemplary and unprecedented. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Speakers, The proposal for the current amendment of the law has become timely on the basis of the experience of law enforcement and the indications of representatives of nationalities. On the basis of the signals received, the Prime Minister's Office, the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, the Association of National National Governments, the Deputy Commissioner for the Protection of the Rights of Nationalities in Hungary, the National Election Office, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Home Affairs and the professional wallets affected by the amendment developed the proposal together. As a result of the joint work, the proposal was submitted by the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities on 5 June. In addition to technical clarifications, the proposal serves to ensure consistency between the law and the law on the local governments of Hungary, thus helping the communities of nationalities to exercise their rights to self-government and self-determination to the fullest extent provided by the Fundamental Law. Dear Parliament, All amendments to the bill are necessary, but there are points of particular importance for ethnic communities. I would like to highlight the following three issues. The first is the amendments concerning the election of the minority self-government. Unfortunately, the corona virus epidemic has delayed the Statistical Office's survey, and as a result, we now need to introduce regulations precisely because of the 2024 elections. The publication, conduct of the minority municipal elections, the way in which the candidate is presented, is bound by the law to the census data prior to the election. In view of the general municipal elections to be held in 2024 it is necessary to amend the rules governing the establishment of elections for national authorities. Thus, according to the amendment, the general election of representatives of municipal self-governments should be set in three cases. The first one. If the number of persons belonging to that nationality in the municipality reaches 25 persons per nationality according to the aggregated data of the reporting of the most recent census questions relating to belonging to that nationality. This ensures that all settlements where the presence of nationality can be measured can be established as local minority self-governments. Second case. If, following the general election of the previous representatives of the minority self-government, a local government was established, and the number of persons belonging to that nationality, according to the aggregated data of the last census on issues relating to belonging to that nationality, it reaches 20 persons per nationality, taking into account the migration processes within the country, there may be movements between the censuses, resulting in the number of nationalities falling below 25 in a given settlement. In such a case, if the local minority self-government in the municipality was established as a result of the previous election, it may be justified to give another chance, a kind of lifeline for the otherwise active ethnic community to continue its operation and strengthen its presence in the settlement. And the third case is: if there is a public education institution in the municipality involved in ethnic public education, ethnic education, or ethnic education or education, this case provides a solution without a lower limit if there is objective justification for the activity of nationality in a settlement, but there has not been a local minority self-government established previously. Point 2, which is absolutely important and should be highlighted under the law, is the proposals concerning ethnic education and culture, which Mr President also spoke about. The Law 2. Paragraph 5 has been added to a new point (d). This applies to nationality public education institutions, and it really settles the issue that gives nationalities opportunities not only to education and public education institutions, but also to other areas. The other one. On the basis of feedback from representatives of nationalities, amendments are made to Article 24. Paragraph 1 of this Article. The aim of the amendment is to establish a new nationality public education institution, with the consent of the national minority self-government, in a similar way to the acceptance of the maintenance rights of the public education institution, only regional and local minority self-governments, thus strengthening the foundations of the responsible institution's maintenance. Twenty-five. Pursuant to Section 5 of the Act, the educational institution performing the tasks of the state and local government must be given the maintenance of the national minority self-government, provided that 75 percent of the participants in the education receive ethnic education. Twenty-five. In particular, the national minority self-government may, on the basis of paragraph 4 of Article 4, take over the maintenance of the two teaching languages of the minority mother tongue or nationality, but not the teaching institutions of the nationality language. Twenty-five. The amendment of paragraph 4 of Section 4 also remedys this problem. Dear Parliament, The third large area, which concerns the amendment of the law, is the changes affecting the functioning of national authorities. In order to ensure the transparent functioning of national minority self-governments, amendments are made to Article 77. Paragraph 3 and 4 of this Article. The national minority self-government may elect a councillor to supervise the performance of its statutory public tasks. The General Assembly may set a fee and other allowances for the councillor. In order to avoid abuse of this licence, it is necessary to tighten the regulation up to the size of the Vice-President. [[12.50]] The amendment maximizes the number of councillors elected by the national national minority authorities to supervise the compulsory public service provision, as well as their salary: 2 persons if the number of the general assembly is between 15 and 23 persons; 3 persons if it reaches 31 persons; 4 persons if the general assembly is 39 persons; 5 persons if the number of the general assembly is 47. It cannot happen in the future that there is a municipality where 40 councilmen operate. For the purpose of establishing uniform case-law, Article 102 shall apply. § 2 to amend paragraph 2. The law 102. Paragraph 1 of Section 1 also regulates cases of termination of the mandate of representatives of national self-governments. 102. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of paragraph 2 of paragraph 1 (a) - (f) and (j) respectively, the body of representatives or the general meeting shall determine in a decision the termination of the mandate of the representative. 102. Pursuant to paragraph 1 (a), the term of office of the representative shall cease on the day of the election of the general minority self-government following his election; in the absence of candidates, in the case of an election cancelled on the day of the interim election; in paragraph 102. § (1) (b) on the day of the interim election. In these two cases, the mandate of the representative of the minority self-government is in fact terminated by virtue of the law, so it is not necessary for the body of representatives to decide on this or for the general assembly to take a decision. In view of the fact that local and regional self-governments do not, by their nature, have the necessary personal and material conditions, it is appropriate to include Article 103 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. § 3 rethink. As a function of the notary, the amendment requires the collection and preservation of declarations of property by representatives of local national authorities. This does not lead to a disproportionate additional task for the notaries, but the amendment further narrows the scope of abuse of the obligation to make declarations of assets. The monitoring of the content of the declaration of assets shall continue to be the responsibility of the designated committee or two representatives of the national self-government. Point 106 is replaced by the following: § 9 is amended to clarify the interpretation of the law. The amendment makes it clear that if the body of representatives or the general assembly is governed by the law 102. § 2 of the Act establishes the termination of the term of office of Members, so in the case of Members, the rules on remedies are the same as those laid down in relation to the President. Accordingly, the Member may, within 15 days of notification of the decision, challenge it in an administrative action; the court shall act in a Chamber, and there shall be no retrial against the judgment. As a demand for primary law enforcement, Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty provides that: § 3 revisiting an unjustified additional requirement on representatives of national self-government compared to local representatives. In line with the comments, the amendment was amended in accordance with Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. § 3 and Article 38 of the Law on the Governments of Hungary. § 4 of the Act on the Rights of Nationalities provides consistency with the fact that the Member cannot exercise his rights until his obligation has been fulfilled, the representative of the local government terminates his rights, thus adapting him to the local government law. According to the municipal law, 76. § 76 also states that in the case of the termination of the deputy mayor of the local government, Article 76 shall apply. § (d) provides the body of representatives with the possibility to withdraw the mandate of the deputy mayor on the proposal of the mayor, by secret ballot, by qualified majority. The national minority law does not provide the representative bodies of the national authorities with a similar opportunity to withdraw the mandate of the deputy chairman. This deficiency often leads to the failure of small minority self-governments. The Law on the Rights of Nationalities 108. The amendment of paragraphs 9 and 10 of the Act provides for the possibility of recalling the deputy presidents of the local government representative bodies or general meetings, as is the case with the local government law. In order to combat abuse, the 109th edition was carried out. § 9 to amend and introduce a new paragraph (10). The aim of the amendment is to establish the benefits in kind of local minority representatives, like the fees, in relation to the in-kind benefits of the President of the national minority self-government. In addition, the new paragraph (10) provides for the possibility of reducing or withdrawing the fees, benefits in kind, of the representatives' body or of the general meeting, for a maximum period of 12 months, of the representative who is in breach of his obligations. In case of repeated infringements, the reduction or withdrawal may be re-established. The 2011 CXCV on public finances. law does not require municipalities to prepare a six-month report, but so far the nationalities have had it; LXXXIX of 2021 on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2022. Law 19. In accordance with Article 2 of the Act, this has been amended and has no longer included the task of giving an opinion on the six-month accounts since 2 July 2021. The law is 135. The amendment of §2 of the Act aims to bring consistency with the law of the local government. The law on the rights of nationalities in force does not provide for the transfer of the job to a new President if it has been taken over by the government office in the capital city or in the county. For this reason, the law 141. § 1 is amended by requiring government agencies to inform the new President of the documents received and the situation of the local government after the inauguration. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Speaker Woman and Speaker Lords! The content of the law governing the rights of nationalities should always take into account the interests of all the 13 indigenous nationalities in our country; it should coordinate, where appropriate, the needs of nationalities which are partly in conflict with each other. This is why, as I have already mentioned, a number of discussions have taken place during the drafting of the draft; I thank everyone, to those who have participated in these discussions. It is therefore quite clear from the government that we support the presentation of the committee. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties and spokespersons.]]
u2023-06-16-67	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Miklós Soltész. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Csaba Nagy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2023-06-16-68	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Speaker Woman, Dear Speech Lords, One of the main aims of the civil government is to ensure that the situation of the Bulgarian, Greek, Croatian, Polish, German, Armenian, Roma, Romanian, Ruthenian, Serbian, Slovak, Slovenian and Ukrainian nationalities in Hungary is balanced and value-oriented, their representation being based on continuous dialogue in the local and governmental spheres. The government is also trying to give every help to the nationalities living in our country in order to live and preserve their identity every day, and we have already said this to many of us in order to pass it on to future generations. Ladies and gentlemen, To give my personal example: I have gained a lot of experience as a Member of Parliament in my constituency of Baranya 4. Western Baranya is traditionally rich in the presence of nationalities, where Roma, German and Croatian nationalities live in the highest proportion and make their voices heard both at municipal and representative level and at the level of civil society, such as associations and traditional groups. [[13.00]] As Members of Parliament, it is essential that the dialogue with them be mutual and continuous, open to both cultural and professional comments and opinions, reflect on them and, if necessary, provide a helping hand. We have attended several meetings, meetings and professional forums in the past, where we have sought the right answers to the issues we have raised, to current challenges, and we have tried to find a common voice on future opportunities and trends in development. I think mutual cooperation and joint work are forward-looking and effective. Dear Parliament, I believe that partnership with Hungarian nationalities is of paramount importance from a national strategic point of view. In addition, Hungary is actively pursuing national rights as widely as possible in the international context, including the development of maternal relations, support for cross-border programmes, the fulfilment of our country's obligations arising from international documents and contacts with international organisations. As members of the Hungarian political community, Hungarian ethnicities also participate in the legislative work in practice. Everyone has the right to exercise their identity freely. The State undertakes to protect, respect, facilitate the completion of cultural autonomy, ensure and support effective representation of nationalities. A good policy of support helps to develop and operate living, real ethnic communities. The results of the past 12 years have confirmed this. Over the years, the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities has made several amendments to the regulations affecting nationalities, but the most significant need for change is beyond doubt in relation to the national minority law. Dear House, As has already been said, on the basis of the feedback received, previously heard and summarised, the Prime Minister's Office, the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, the Association of National National Governments, the Deputy Commissioner for the Protection of the Rights of Nationalities Living in Hungary, the National Election Office, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Home Affairs and the professional wallets concerned with the amendment have worked out the proposal before us. We can discuss this as a result of working together. In addition to technical clarifications, the National Rights Act and the 2011 CLXXXIX on the local governments of Hungary. allows for the relationship of law. Ladies and gentlemen, We all remember the coronal virus pandemic, that in 2021 the work of the Statistical Office had to be postponed, among other things. For this reason, the Statistical Office's data transmission is expected by the end of the year, and this is why a number of amendments need to be made in order to bridge and eliminate the problems that will be caused in the upcoming 2024 national elections. The proposal is set out in Article 56 of the National Rights Act. It provides a solution to the above problem by re-regulation of §8 of the Treaty. The maintenance of the amendment is very important, as the data for 2014 and 2019 can therefore be used in the organisation of the next elections, taking into account the data of the HCSO. Dear Parliament, In addition to eliminating and clarifying the most important legal anomaly I have just highlighted, the amendments before us serve additional purposes. In support of the survival of national minority communities and their value-making work, the aim is to reduce the number of abuses in small local minority self-governments by requiring the notary to collect and guard the declaration of property. The monitoring of the content of the declaration of assets shall continue to be the responsibility of the designated committee or two representatives of the national self-government. This does not result in a disproportionate additional burden for notaries. In addition, the proposal provides a solution to ensure the filling of the mandate of representatives of small minority self-government representative bodies. This is an exceptional auxiliary rule that allows the quorum of the body of representatives to be maintained in order to allow the decision to terminate the mandate of the Member concerned to be adopted. In the absence of this, practical examples show that the functioning of the smaller municipal self-governments has been compromised more than once. In addition, the proposal addresses the issue of councillors. The national minority self-government may elect a councillor to supervise the compulsory public service provision under the national law on the rights of minorities. In order to ensure the transparent functioning of national minority authorities, the amendment maximises the number of councillors which the national minority authorities can choose to supervise the mandatory public service provision and sets the level of their salary. Finally, I would like to highlight one more point from the proposal, which concerns educational institutions. The aim of the amendment, submitted on the basis of feedback from representatives of nationalities, is to ensure that, in the same way as the right of maintenance of public education institutions, a new nationality public education institution can be founded only with the agreement of the national minority self-government. This is how we want to support responsible institution maintenance. Dear House, The 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. Act XXXVI of 2013 on electoral procedure The proposal to amend law has become timely on the basis of the experience of law enforcement and the feedback of representatives of nationalities. In addition to technical clarifications, the proposal also serves to harmonise legislation. In view of what has been said, I would like to ask you that T/4230. I would like to announce to you that the Fidesz fraction supports the legislative amendment proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-16-69	Thank you very much, Congressman Csaba Nagy. I give the floor to Mr Lajos Löcsei, the lead speaker of the Momentum Group.
u2023-06-16-70	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, In this debate on nationality law, I will be very brief and concise. Of course, allow me to give an opinion on the structure, model and state of the Roma minority self-government system. According to the reasons for the bill submitted, the amendment of the law under discussion has become timely on the basis of the experience of law enforcement and the feedback of representatives of nationalities. I believe that if we really took into account the experience of law enforcement and not the aspects of those who profit from the minorities chosen and managed by the government, then we would indeed fundamentally change this system that has failed several times. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] It's time to finally tell the truth, even if it hurts, and many people won't like it. The current poverty system of tax collectors, the Gypsy minority self-government system, must be ploughed and sprinkled with salt. Because you don't need a model that assists in poverty. There's no need for tax collectors of poverty. Respect for a handful of exceptions who don't sell the lives of the most vulnerable for some charity. Thirty years ago, the tax collectors of poverty received a sandbox, a playground with small toys. It is time to reflect on the right to operate a system of abuse with public money or, following a frank, open speech, a radical, full-scale reform. I find the latter not feasible in the system of the majority of governments today, and while reading about the amendment of the law, you are not preparing for reform. Once again, you are fine-tuning your own poverty tax collection system. Whatever changes are made to the current structure, it will not achieve the desired goal, because over the past decades the customs collectors of poverty have been transformed into politicians, but mostly from the system to project politicians, and they have forgotten what their task is, whom, what they should represent and what values they should represent. [[13.10]] In exchange for some small change, in exchange for the crumbs falling from the table, you'll be tricked, betrayed, blackmailed, held in poverty, observed, assisted. It is not possible to understand how much damage is being done to the Hungarian society as a whole by the tax collectors of poverty. They had people to learn from, for the political elite quickly realized who they had to buy to remain in power to gain cheap votes. They're tax collectors of poverty. By 2023, the Gypsy minority self-government system became a political swamp, a political abomination. The successive governments have assisted in this. The political elite and the tax collectors of poverty. And the current government is putting a peak in poverty, spiritual illiteracy. I've been a congressman for a year. [[Peter Hoppál: You can see it!]] During this time, I visited many small settlements. Last time I was in a small town in Borsod, I was talking to the people there, the poorer families who were locked away from true inflation. [[Peter Hoppál: Finally went to the country!]] What I see and feel is that most of those in these social groups do not even know what is going on around them, what political processes are taking place, what decisions are being made about them. But interestingly, most of the time, a tax collector of poverty always shows up there to tell us we're there, and he knows everything. He knows best that we're going forward, not in the back, and he knows that you're going Fidesz! Only the Fidesz! It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, It is not surprising that this tax collector of poverty can be linked through some kind of thread, but to the Gypsy national government. When I start doing some research on what and how they live, I see that they have actually been able to move forward, because they live much better than those whose skin, especially its brown skin, is being sold for some small change. Fidesz is doing everything in its power to maintain the tax collector model called the national government, but in fact the poverty model. This should end here and now, because no social group can be the victim of the tax collectors of poverty. Again, the Gypsy minority self-government system must be plowed and sprinkled with salt. Because it was more important for successive governments to keep them in poverty, to put them in a minority bubble, to push them away from the political decision-making table than to build a country with a common responsibility as one nation, as a Hungarian nation, where knowledge is valuable, where diversity is value and opportunity, opportunity in the economy, the public sector, education, the primary labour market. But domestic gypsy means only cheap votes to the political elite and, most of all, to the current government. The Gypsy national minority government, i.e. the poverty tax collection system, assists with this [[Peter Hoppál: That was three times already!]] So you have to plow it and sprinkle it with salt. [[Peter Hoppál: How weak he was!]]
u2023-06-16-71	Thank you very much, Congressman Louis Löcsei. [[Péter Hoppál: For this reason, it was a waste to enter Parliament! The president's ringing the bell.]] The next speaker is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2023-06-16-72	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. I am quite shocked after Mr Levočei's speech. On the one hand, it's quite shocking how the congressman talks about Gypsyism, as he looks down on our fellow countrymen. [[Lajos Löcsei: The municipal system! Don't twist my words.]] as he looks down on the Committee of Nationalities, national nationalities, local governments, some organisation managed by Fidesz, he calls those indigenous national communities, which look back hundreds of years, which here in Hungary have added countless things to the rise of the Hungarian nation, to our Hungarian history. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Congressman, what you're doing is a disgrace. [[Intruder from Fidesz: That's right!]] The fact is that instead of putting this speech before you by your colleagues, it would have been easier to read the bill because it is written that the Committee of Nations has submitted it, honourable Member, not the government. I don't know if you've noticed that when you're making these accusations. And I do not know, Congressman, that you have noticed that your electoral poster has the logo of the DK whose president, Ferenc Gyurcsány, had the Roma murders, honourable Member, and you have done nothing about it, [[Peter Hoppál: Shame!]] Have you noticed that you're in league with them and you're cheering for them and pushing the political chariot of those who did this at the time? [[Lajos Levočei, pointing to the Fidesz line: Derelict tax collector! The truth hurts! It hurts. The president's ringing the bell.]] We listened to you, Congressman, it wasn't easy. It's a shame you're talking about our countrymen like that, honourable Member. It would be much simpler and much more worthy if it had dealt with the bill rather than disdaining the people, the ethnic communities, because there could have been a meaningful comment. This law has been created from the experience of the past years and from the experience of the operation of the minority self-governments. Otherwise, an amendment may be tabled to it, honourable Member. Otherwise, you could have said your opinion about the law. The thing is, in the general debate, you didn't say a word about the law. You have said here a written programme speech, we understand, you may have a right, but you have nothing to do with the current bill and what we are discussing here. Because we have before us the amendment of the law on the rights of nationalities, which has been brought before us by the committee on nationality, by the representative and by the women and gentlemen who spoke, because this is an important issue that I think is worth talking about. Mr Congressman, allow me, a year ago, to say that there was unity here in this Parliament to support nationalities, to help nationalities, and to take the views of nationalities seriously. These laws have generally passed unanimously here, honourable Member. Take into account this tradition that it is important to work together on these topics, not to stimulate and create tensions... [[Lajos Löcsei, pointing to the ranks of the advocates: Is that why the Roma advocate is sitting there? There, in that line! The president's ringing the bell.]] Yes, that's why the advocates are sitting there, Congressman...
u2023-06-16-73	My apologies, but with respect, Congressman Levochei, listen with greater self-discipline.
u2023-06-16-74	Yes, Congressman, the advocates are sitting there because we thought it was important for the 13 indigenous national minorities to be represented as advocates in the amendment of the Fundamental Law, and it is important that, since they are state-creating factors in accordance with our Fundamental Law, we consider it important that they are able to present their views here in Parliament, too, and submit legislative proposals. This is not the first bill the committee has tabled, honourable Member. Don't look down on the work you do on the minority committee, don't look down on the work you do in national governments, don't look down on the work you do in ethnic institutions, cultural institutions, educational institutions or even church institutions. Don't look down on this job. This is very important, because it can be a common basis for us to negotiate this law together here. The aim of the Fidesz-KDNP government is to preserve the culture of nationalities living with us, to cultivate their mother tongues, to develop them, and to support the broad provision of their individual and community rights. We recognise and support the survival of national minority communities and consider them valuable and resourceful, unlike you. The nationalities living with us are part of the Hungarian political community and constitute state-making factors. This is in our fundamental law that you hate, in this spirit we relate to nationalities. It's too bad you don't feel that way. The Fundamental Law also states that we regard the language and culture of Hungarian ethnicities as valuable, we support, nurture and protect them. Hungary's ethnic policy is also exemplary at European level. Since 2010, there has been an unprecedented increase in support of indigenous nationalities living in our country. By 2022, the aid already increased by six times the amount for 2010. I wish the neighbouring countries would support the indigenous Hungarian national communities living there, for example, as Hungary treats ethnic communities here in Hungary. It would be important, and although many places in this direction have improved relations with God, there is a need for further development in some European countries, especially in neighbouring countries. The 2024 budget will, among other things, continue to provide opportunities for the publication of national minority proposals in the category of NGOs, cultural initiatives, support for maternity camps, support for public education institutions maintained by national and local minority authorities, and funding the operation of the national and local minority self-government system, thus providing support for national minority representation. [[13.20]] As members of the Hungarian political community, Hungarian ethnicities also participate in the legislative work in practice. The 13 nationalities recognised in Hungary have the right to vote on a national minority list in the parliamentary elections, with this even a preferential nationality representative, and, if this fails, to choose a minority advocate. In recent years, the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities has made several amendments to the regulations affecting nationalities. However, there is no doubt that the most significant need for change was in relation to the nationality law. The bill amending the law on the rights of nationalities has become timely on the basis of the experience of law enforcement and the feedback of representatives of nationalities. The submitted bill is the result of the joint work of the Committee of Nationalities, the Association of National Governments, the Deputy Commissioner for the Protection of the Rights of Nationalities in Hungary, the National Election Office and the relevant wallets. In view of the upcoming general government elections in 2024 it is necessary to amend the rules governing the establishment of elections for national minority self-governments. A total of 106,660 persons were included in the national minority electoral register at the 2019 Autumn National Elections, and the participation rate was not less than 72 percent. Under the current proposal, the general election of representatives of municipal self-governments should be set in three cases. If the number of persons belonging to that nationality in the municipality reaches 25 persons per nationality according to the aggregated data of the reporting of the most recent census questions relating to belonging to that nationality. In the second case, if, after the previous general election of the representatives of the minority self-government in the municipality, the local government has been established, and the number of persons belonging to that nationality according to the aggregated data of the last census on the issue of belonging to that nationality per nationality, 20 persons may be reached, or if the municipality has a nationality public education institution, a nationality vocational education institution or a public education institution involved in the education of nationality. The aim of the proposal is also to reduce the number of abuses, to make the operation of national authorities more transparent, thereby supporting the survival of national minority communities and their value-creating work. We don't look down on it. We help ethnic communities. That is why we will support the law on behalf of KDNP. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-06-16-75	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I now give the floor to Dávid Dócs, the lead speaker of the group of our countries.
u2023-06-16-76	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I think that the highly criticized and well-disputed status law is later, but the ammunition has already started shooting at each other properly. Well, then, I'd like to discuss a few things, too, since we're on the national minority bill. I think that basically Hungary and the Hungarian nation are the strengths of nationalities, but this is only true if their primary identity is Hungarian, because we could see where the wrong ethnic policy led a little over a hundred years ago. The budget for the support of minority self-governments is increasing and rising year by year, and last year they received nearly HUF 4 billion. Most local minority self-governments are Roma nationalities, far ahead of other minorities. Of our 3200 settlements, they have about 1175 municipal minority self-governments. Mr Lőrinc Nacsa mentioned that the Fidesz government views nationalities as resources. I would like to add this to the fact that Viktor Orbán sees nationalities as quite precisely hidden resources, including Gypsy nationality, because we can see that the processes that have been achieved in recent decades have served, in fact, not the rise of gypsy ethnicity, but the maintenance of the level. There is no need for these gypsy compatriots to be truly integrated, just like the left so far, so the Fidesz government, unfortunately, still thinks our gypsy compatriots are cheap-for-sale voting machines, and I think they are not. I think that we should spend money on them and their integration, which actually will get there, which would actually have effective results instead of lighting up the machinery before the elections and dragging them to vote by bus. They often don't even know who to draw on, but they are trained to do so at appropriate training. I think that a question of nationality should be thought differently and that a different way of thinking should be achieved. And I mentioned that our fellow gypsy countrymen; when it comes to nationality in this country, why we never talk about Slovenian or Swabian nationalities. Because, quite simply, apart from showing their values, we don't even know that they exist, we don't even know that they exist, unless we go to a good-spirited village day, where we can see how hard they are, what is typical of their culture, and quite simply how they try to enrich the Hungarian nation, and how they function as an integral part of it. There is much more to talk about than gypsy nationality, and since my fellow Members before me have already mentioned here that they want to share operational experience, I have also drawn up a few. How do these Roma self-governments work in practice, since we have already mentioned that one third of the number of local governments is already Roma minority self-government. About a legitimate political loan shark system could be said, as a recent indictment against the former President of the National Roma Municipality, János Agócs, may be given up to 6 years in prison for accepting a bribe. Some of the former leaders were certainly more talented, let us mention some of them, as there was Orbán Kolompár or János Balogh. They have also been convicted of financial abuses and crimes, and the journey to the world of work has unfortunately led to a gap, not to the world of work, if it was up to them. The fact that most of the Roma work and build Hungary and thus drive the economy at the moment is due to the fact that there has simply been such a shortage of labour, that they themselves have realized that they have to participate in the world of work and they have to participate. It was not the integration money, it was not these minority self-governments that invited them into the world of work. And let us also look at the situation, the situation in life, when I can agree with a fellow Member with a moment. I also believe that the Gypsy minority self-government system must indeed be committed, as it has given rise to countless abuses, as we can see. [[Intercoms in the benches of Fidesz.]] Unfortunately, there we are, too, listening to my fellow Members, please, do the same, and unfortunately we are saying that we are not looking at a good example, but we can only list a number of bad examples, and we do not really see the real values. But how is that possible, why can we keep you here? Because for gypsyism it should not be this clever thinking, but rather the Hungarian identity, because there have been voices from Roma politicians who have tried to force the creation of a separate gypsy province, creating a second Trianon and trying to rip four counties out of the territory of our already mutilated country. I can say that this is never possible under any circumstances, but unfortunately, my fellow Member from Levočei had the current political platform who said before the elections that, if necessary, they would indeed sit down with the Githlete Opre Roma in order for this gypsy province to be established. I think that it will never be possible, but if we look at the trend, if we look at the reality, then the number of Roma municipalities in this country is not desperate, but that there are local governments in Northern Hungary where Roma minority self-governments do not have to operate, because they are the only ones that make up the local government. And that's only a problem because simply the Hungarians were lost from that area, they were lost from that region. But in order not only to deal with Gypsy issues on this agenda, it is also necessary to say that we should look at the Western example and say the northern part of the Danube, and we can see that as long as we try to strike a normal tone with our nationalities, with our minorities, what we can expect from them. We can see that the Hungarians in the Highlands are still, in practice, referred to as collective sinners under the Beneš Decrees, where they may be, trying to undermine their objectives, and we can see that Rajka was moved there on the Rajka, which, due to the Paris Peace Dictate in 1947, was not able to attach to Czechoslovakia now to the indigenous Hungarians, exactly 8000 Slovaks moved there. And next year, there will probably not be a Slovak minority self-government there either, since the local government itself, the local government, will be led by Slovaks. So if we do not pay attention to these dangers and these problems, I think that we can very easily proceed as we did a hundred years ago, that our failed minority policy can easily prepare another Trianon. Of course, we cannot accept this in any way, and we will do everything we can to ensure that this never happens. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the benches of our country.]] [[13.30]]
u2023-06-16-77	Thank you very much, Congressman Dócs. I now give the floor to Congressman Sándor Berki, the lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue. You have the floor.
u2023-06-16-78	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, It's great to hear these speeches, they're very good. [[Peter Hoppál intervenes.]] It has been said that this law, the amendment of the law, has been drawn up with the involvement of nationalities and based on experience. I have some bad news: thanks to your sacrifice, there is no Roma minority advocate in this Parliament, and this is thanks to you. You have worked on this for many decades, that the institutional system that once was the bastion of the Roma society, and you have organised good things, built programs and a knowledge base, which you have destroyed for the past 12 years, emptied the system, and built a service staff. It's the truth! You can say that you do not agree with this, you can point back what was in the past, you can blame everyone else, but now we stand after 12 years that there is no ethnic advocate for the largest Hungarian minority in this Parliament. And we owe this to you, because you said that if it wasn't yours, you'd rather fail the whole system. Of course, it is also clear that you are blackmailing this system, emptying it, and fidesz families dominate these national governments. Yeah, that's right. Families and maintained families caught up with Fidesz dominate this atmosphere. And those people of Roma origin, those of our gypsy countrymen who, on the other hand, want to move forward, do not want to be part of society, they do not give them the opportunity to do so. It is here in this law that it has been raised from 20 to 25, but you know that it works on a self-religious basis. It can be very quickly anywhere, in the places you expect, to set up local governments, such as Roma self-age. Why am I saying this? I'm saying this because you've evacuated this system. If your people are not in charge of these municipalities, there is no such support. It's as simple as that. Yeah, there's the possibility that you can make a nationality policy, the possibility is a given, but there's nothing behind it. It's empty content. It has been emptied, as I have already said, and so have my fellow Members. I would also like to draw attention here to what kind of partnership is, for example. This is a very good nationality law, but if you have looked into it, you can see, tell me how many municipalities, large municipalities, consider Roma municipalities as partners! In how many places, for example, is the national government a member of the work of the large municipality in any form? It's okay to look at it. I know very little of this in Hungary today. I know a good example of where cooperation works, and there is no Fidesz minority self-government there, but it is independent of you and, let's say, even of us, so this municipality is independent of the opposition. It is incomprehensible to me what joys you are singing about the great work you do in the life of nationalities, how you managed to catch up in a work-based society. We did it, half the country in West Hungary. What about Northeast Hungary? Because there is no job creation in North-East Hungary! No Roma catch-up! No job, no education, no nothing. There's nothing. No. In North-East Hungary, the Roma have been abandoned, and even the whole country has been abandoned. So they are talking about emigration here, and it must happen to other minorities or nationalities that this number is a little difficult to come together, but let us be clear that Roma nationality is the largest minority in Hungary, with quite a large number. And it's time to put this nationality in its place, and not go after how to make it more vulnerable. Because that's what this is about. That's what we're talking about, resources taken away, options taken away. I can give you concrete examples when, in the Covid crisis, our fellow Roma compatriots came to the national authorities, waited for help, and they did not have the right to do so, but they had to work together with civilians on how to get support to our fellow Roma countrymen. All by how fantastic this system works. It's not working! I'm gonna say it again. The other thing that I have is that I always speak with appreciation about Hungary's national policy beyond the borders. I can always say that with appreciation, because you guys are really good at this. Please! What if they did the same within our borders? ! There's a good example. Nothing needs to be done, the same must be done within our borders as outside our borders, and then we will be fine. Because interestingly beyond our borders the Gypsy is Hungarian, the Gypsy is human! There, under a hat, with a grant, everyone's fine. Everyone is equal in Hungary's cross-border policy. But within the limits, there's constant repression, there's a constant breakout, so it's just hard to say anything about the success story I hear from you. And we are very fortunate that there are also politicians of Roma origin from the opposition in this Parliament. Of course, before anyone questions him, I can say here in Parliament that I respect Attila Stojka, and I hope that he is better supported in that work, and that Attila can work for Roma nationality regardless of party standing, but she is also alone in your benches, and she can't go anywhere. But I would also like to say here that, on the other hand, there are four of us in this Parliament, and I would like to see now that the four of us are sitting down, and that is the point of my point, that it is time that if this government takes this ethnic or Roma policy so seriously, then it is possible for the four of us to sit down and suggest what we can do to ensure that the Roma society in Hungary is given greater attention and real support from the Government of Hungary. I think you know me so well that I'm the most cooperative politician, and I'm saying that if there's anything good, let's work together. But based on my experience so far, and this is my last attempt here in public, you are simply not interested in cooperation. There was talk here about bringing proposals to committees and submitting amendments. Why? Our paper's not worth it, you don't look at it, you don't look up, you push a no, and we're done. They do not give us the opportunity to build real cooperation on certain matters. It is possible to accuse us of not giving it up, to say how my fellow Member, such as Lajos Löcsei, speaks, and why does he think it should be plowed with salt? It's the helplessness. That's why! He was talking about it because of helplessness! I'm not saying that, of course, because I don't say that because I say that, because I say that the acquired right must be retained! But acquired rights must also be treated with respect. And it is finally necessary to take into account the interests of a nationality, for example, the interests of Roma nationality, and it must not be constantly influenced and dominated by the government that was being regent at the time, and such a large minority. Why are we talking about why I'm saying they're tax collectors? Because, you know, I also have to agree that national authorities do not really work between the two elections. But not because they don't want to, but because there is no remuneration for national authorities. While you, I, too, have a lot of remuneration, these Members do not. These Members are doing their job for free and in their spare time because they are working on it. Of course, if we were to take it so seriously, it would be possible to work with this to really be a true representation, at least one person belonging to a Roma minority being able to be in the great local government and actually represent the interests of the Roma on the ground. [[13.40]] But I don't see any suggestions, I don't even hear them. Now I've spoken, I've made a suggestion, you can work on it, you can work on it together. So these are very important things that you are always talking about theory; many times I feel here in Parliament, whatever we are talking about, as if you are living in one country, and I am living in another. I can't help but notice that North-East Hungary is somehow not part of the big plan, the big success, and I just don't know how it came together. I'd like to, believe me, do you know what I'm telling you? I'd like to live in the country you see, what you're talking about. I want to be a member of this country. I want to be a part of this country. And I want those of you who live with me in North-East Hungary to live in the same country you talk about every day, regardless of their origin! I would be a very happy person if I could live in this country, and then perhaps I would be able to make such cheerful, smacking comments here in Parliament, and I would be truly a happy person. That's what I'm trying to do. And I would like to return to it once again because the most important part of this speech - : let us give this opportunity and ask the four Members of Parliament of Roma origin, the pro-government in the rain, to sit down, organise this and stand together for the Roma and the Roma interests. There is no advocate for the largest minority in Hungary, they cannot stand up, but we can stand together stronger and stronger. Because you also need to be aware that this one nationality alone represents a larger number than all the others together. I would like Roma nationality to be treated as equal in this Hungarian society, with equal rights and equal opportunities. And once again, a little to the national authorities that there is a responsibility. This is very typical in the countryside; I heard the congressman when there was a shout out that he had at least gone to the countryside. I would like to say that he lives in the countryside, with me, we have lived in the countryside since we were born, we don't have to go down, and we don't have to tell us what's in the countryside, because we live there, and we didn't come to the great Budapest, and we didn't leave the part where we were born and what we represent. And back to the fact that there are responsibilities. When it happens in the countryside, in rural municipalities, that if the Roma people go in, then the local government will send you to the Roma municipality to go there and help you there, while the Roma municipality has no possibility of doing so, and even has no authority, because we are not talking about a political organisation, but primarily about culture and tradition, and let us admit that they are doing it very, very well. Because we also have to say that Hungarian Gypsy is a worthy member and representative of this Hungarian society, and it greatly enriches this culture. We have rebuilt this country many times, and we are building it now, and you have not created the society where the Gypsy works, because we have always worked on every construction, we have always been everywhere, and we have done our part in building this country, whatever government it was. We've always been here, we've always worked and we've always done. The fact that you've been treating us at child level for the last 12 years is another story, because it's very good for you, because you can control it. And while we are at this speech, I would also like to largely reject the accusations that are often said, although it is not certain that this is the wrong one - we are accused of being able to take power on the basis of our votes. Why do you think this accusation is in Hungarian society? Because they see how you control and influence this society. Fortunately, this does not always work, and we will work to keep it going. I was able to be this cooperative, give one last chance to start working now or to be told that you thought this was not good, and then you would be lectured and explained and, of course, you would also tell me how to submit an amendment, but I am curious that real cooperation will start in this and other areas. Thank you very much for your attention. I'll take care of you, too. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of DK, Momentum and Dialogue.]]
u2023-06-16-79	Thank you very much, Congressman Sándor Berki. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent congressman to come forward is now speaking. I give the floor to Congressman Ferenc Varga.
u2023-06-16-80	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I didn't think that, by the time it came to me, such a meaningful debate would have come up here, in which there were great truths and very big misses in my opinion, but at the same time let me say that I think that the issue of nationalities is a matter beyond the parties, so first of all I ask the minority committee to respect my criticisms. But I can't say the same for the ruling parties. I think that the law on the rights of nationalities should be amended on a number of points in order to ensure that the nationalities and their local governments within its scope are able to function properly. Compared to this, the bill before us contains very few amendments. The changes that have been made are extremely small in promoting the affairs of nationalities living in Hungary. The proposal submitted also, in my opinion, expresses the fact that, unfortunately, instead of solving real problems, there will be once again a meaningless amendment to the law, so there is no political will in the governing parties to really help the situation of nationalities. With regard to the amendments made in the proposal, I would like to make the following comments. Article 1 The proposal concerns the naming of ethnic theatres among ethnic cultural institutions. I fully agree with this, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that very few of the 13 indigenous nationalities in this country today have the opportunity to operate ethnic theatres. I would much rather see from you a proposal that lays the foundations for, for example, the Roma nationality to have a theatre in the country, and you will allocate resources to this. Article 3 I think that the text of the law should be supplemented by the institutional councils in addition to the school boards in relation to those who are entitled to an opinion as regards the provisions of the Act on Public Education, since at present two legal persons, partly independent, can be set up in two organisational forms, one of which is the school board and the other one is the institutional council. Among other things, local ethnic authorities can take advantage of a binding initiative to set up the latter. In the case of the two institutions, there is a overlap both with regard to the organisations authorised to delegate to them and with regard to the power to deliver opinions. In many educational institutions, for example, there is no school board, but there is an institutional council, in which there is a delegated member of the parental community, in addition to the student council, such as the educational body, the local government or, where appropriate, the church representative. In the case of institutions where the institutions concerned have chosen the institutional council, the exercise of the right of opinion shall not apply to the latter three delegation organisations. Obviously, in the case of a decision of such a specific gravity, such delegates may not be deprived of their opinion, even if the express opinion does not affect the actual substantive decision, it may be taken independently. Article 11 With regard to Section 2, which is the supplement to the benefits in kind, the percentage of the contribution of the President to it is, in my opinion, a serious step backwards in certain areas of benefits in kind, and I would therefore like to suggest that it be considered. For example, the monthly BKK lease is a natural benefit for Budapest, which is necessary for the performance of the responsibilities of the Members. The price of the monthly lease is objective, it cannot be tertiary, so if the President does not make use of this allowance and other benefits, it is proposed that only 30% of its value be granted, so that the possibility of a monthly lease should be deprived of both the Vice-President and the Members. The same concerns arise, for example, in the case of devices for personal use as benefits, such as laptops. However, as regards representatives, the members of the Committee would not benefit from such a restriction for benefits in kind according to the amendment. [[13.50]] But while we are talking about a fee, I also have to tell you that the vast majority of national governments are only dreaming of a fee, because although the law allows it, the co-ordinated resources do not allow representatives of national governments today to receive a prize for the performance of their duties. This means that the vast majority of them do their job in social work. I would much rather see amendments in this proposal that would facilitate the situation of national authorities, and there would be a lot of proposals among them that would not otherwise cost one forint in the budget, but all 13 nationalities could benefit from it in this country, only one political will would be needed to enable you to do so. I do not see a proposal that would eliminate the vulnerability of national authorities to the management of the local government, as they are legally responsible for the operation of the minority self-government from the writing of the minutes to the provision of office space. Just as I do not see how the burden would be taken off the shoulders of the local government, because if a national minority government works well, applies, don't give up a god, it maintains an institution, it can place a hard burden on the shoulders of a local government, and you are aware of that, but you do not do anything, let this situation stay the way it is now, because it is good for you. For example, with regard to the cooperation agreement, the possibility of a mandatory review every year has been removed in recent years. You think it is enough to review the agreements only after every election, so every five years. You know very well that in many settlements there is no good relationship between the local government and the local government. At least the revision of this agreement gave them an opportunity to communicate with each other and to discuss possible disagreements. It wouldn't cost you a penny to return it, but they say it's enough every five years. Then there's the operation and there's the task-based support issue. These are the two main sources of income for a national government in our country today. Operating aid is a fixed form of support, which depends on how many people have confessed to their nationality in the previous census. The state resources of the national minority authorities, as defined by the law, preclude a significant source of income from other nationalities in relation to the Roma national authorities, due to the lack of support from the mother country, although Roma ethnic authorities generally have significantly more tasks in their respective municipalities, both in terms of numbers and size of tasks. This essential aspect is not compensated at all by the State aid scheme. In addition, I think it is also a serious problem that, where the number of people belonging to that nationality was less than 50 people, there is 520 thousand forints, where there were 51 people, and there is 1 million 40,000 forints. This basically means that in a settlement of 49 people and, let's say, in a settlement of 1500 people, for example, in the case of Roma municipalities, they farm from the same source. Well, a fair event or a program can't be implemented, let alone give honor to national authorities. Task-based support. This is the form of aid which is intended to assess the activities of national authorities in the previous year and thereby to provide support. I do not know how it works in other nationalities, I can tell you what I see in Roma municipalities. The way it works for us is that if you work for a local government and you don't sit close to the fire, you get a score like a punch in the gut. In addition, the conditions for this task-based support are such that the President of the national minority self-government does not see, for example, that the notary of the local government or the worker entrusted with it uploaded, for example, the minutes of the minority self-government to the system in time. You don't see it. It doesn't affect him. You don't have access. From this point forward, I think that the system basically raises criteria which assume that there is a good relationship between the two municipalities, even though I see that the vast majority of present ethnic and municipal authorities do not have good relations. For example, a closed meeting is also a problem with local authorities, where a representative of the minority self-government is allowed in here, where a representative of the minority self-government is not allowed in here, because the law is very vague here too, because it says that he can enter if he believes that they are negotiating a nationality issue. What do you think is a nationality issue? I think it is also a matter of nationality if there is, let's say, a sidewalk development in the settlement, because on that sidewalk there is also a Roma man, German man and any other Hungarian man. I think it's also a matter of ethnicity. What is nationality in the law? Help me clarify this concept. Then, for example, there is the subject of a reduced mandate that you have taken. Many people object that it is no longer possible to be included in the representative bodies of local authorities with a reduced mandate, thus ensuring effective representation. I don't see it solved in the proposal either. Then there is the problem of the minority electoral system, because according to the current rules, the minority electoral system does not guarantee the free expression of the opinion of the people in the election of the legislative body. Because those voting on the minority list have to give up voting on the party list. I do not see the legal background for this either, even though the European Court of Human Rights has already said it and has condemned you in this matter. As for the speech by my fellow Members, as I have said, I have heard a lot of things; I have heard good things, and I have heard wrong shots. Mr Lajos Löcsei said that he would bring salt to the Roma self-governments, if I may, I would like to give you a little background, Mr President. Basically, the problem is that there are 13 nationalities in our country, and these 13 nationalities are united in a single law. This law may comply with Ukrainian, Serbian, Ruthenian, German nationalities, but it does not correspond to Roma self-governments. It is not appropriate because today a Roma municipality has much, much more problems to deal with than other nationalities. It may be enough for other nationalities to be able to cultivate tradition and culture, but in the case of Roma nationality it is not enough, it is not enough. That is precisely why we should create a law that, in my opinion, could solve this situation. But that doesn't mean that this system has to be sprinkled with salt. This system needs to be reformed, because if someone wants to work in this system, they can do it. I also see the very few exceptions for Roma municipalities, where, for example, good learners receive scholarship programmes on the spot. I don't want to take that away from them. And I can obviously see the bad side of it, I can see the side of it when it uses Gypsy as a voting machine for the governing party, and it absorbs Roma votes through the Roma municipal system. I can see that, too. I also see that Roma leaders are being bought by contract, and this is not well. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] I must also respond to the speech by Mr Dócs, who spoke on behalf of our country. He says that there is a party in this country, a Roma party that wants to take out three counties and separate Roma autonomy. Actually, I wouldn't talk about it in the National Assembly, but, speaking of which, the Hungarian Gypsy is as diverse as the non-Roma. There are non-Roma people on the right, some on the left, some think about a story, some think about it in a completely different way. Nobody thinks it's any different inside the gypsy anyway. Among us there are right-wingers, there are left-wingers, there are aberrants who spread such ideas, and an extremist party can constantly refer to this in its policy that the Roma want to break up three counties from the country. That's not true! We don't want to do this! And the normal, decent thinking Roma do not want to do this either, because they believe that they live in this country primarily as Hungarians, as Hungarian citizens, but still have a dual identity as a nationality and as a constituent factor of the state. Thank you for listening. [[A rare applause in the ranks of DK and Dialogue.]]
u2023-06-16-81	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. I'll ask who's next to tell me. I speak for József Szolga. Here you go, Mr. Speaker.
u2023-06-16-82	[[???Köszönöm a szót. Tisztelt Elnök Úr! Poštovani Gospodine Predsjedniče! Tisztelt Ház! Poštovani Dome! Tisztelt Államtitkár Úr! Poštovani gospodine državni tajniče!???]] Following the general local and ethnic elections in 2019, the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities proposed a comprehensive amendment to the National Rights Act, which was also adopted, with the involvement of sectors and statutory supervisors, to sum up the experience of the operation of the first five-year municipal cycle. Of course, the negotiations continued to improve the legal environment with a view to enforcing and ensuring the rights of nationality. [[14.00]] Some of the results of this will be drafted in the draft law before us in a textual manner. The social changes of the last three years, the consequences of the pandemic emergency and the change in the legislation have led to the inevitable rethink of the provisions on the basis of which national self-governments have chosen. The law on the rights of nationalities currently in force is 56. The implementation of §2 is impossible. The data of the latest census on which political self-government is based will not become known until later. It is known that the population was listed a year later because of the emergency, so the data can only be available this autumn. National elections will take place on 29 June 2024 with the change of the Fundamental Law and the electoral rules. The right of ethnic communities in Hungary to self-government must be guaranteed in any event, which has been re-regulated under Article 56. That's a guarantee. It strengthens the acquired entitlement, the declaration of belonging to a given nationality for 25 people, and prefers the right of established communities to self-management. A new element is the right of choice derived from the existence of a functioning nationality public education institution. In my view, it would be possible to extend the foundation of self-organization in the future in view of the existence of a nationality cultural institution in the settlement. Individuals or lists nominated by associations shall compete with each other on the basis of the specific rules of the minority self-government elections. There is a natural need and a legitimate social expectation that only national civil society organisations with an adequate mass base, transparent and effective functioning can become nominating organisations. The purification process should also begin within the nationality community. Nationalities also have to take part in the legislative response to reduce campaign funding anomalies that have emerged after the parliamentary elections. An exact interpretation of the nationality nominating organisation should be established. Of course, we cannot pass the decision of the European Court of Human Rights on the rules of the electoral system concerning nationalities. Nationalities in Hungary are part of the Hungarian political community and state-creating factors, so in cooperation with the Hungarian government a clear political and legal response must be given. It has been a huge step forward that, when amending the law on the rights of previous nationalities, it has been possible to grant ownership to national self-governments that have taken over a public education institution. The past short period has also confirmed that the property has found a good owner. Continuous improvements have been made to improve the quality of education and the working conditions of teachers. The current proposal does not yet include, but it is being developed to enable public education institutions established by nationalities, which use the infrastructure necessary for carrying out the task under a property management contract, to acquire the assets they manage. On behalf of our Commission, we have repeatedly proposed consideration, and at the same time we ask the Government and legislators to support the movable and immovable property of national cultural institutions holding an operating licence, subject to the obligation of a disposal ban for the duration of the provision of the task, to be owned by the managing and maintaining nationality municipality. The claim is confirmed by the 2011 CXCVI on national assets. Act declaring the local government of nationality as a transparent organisation. So there's no legal barrier to free and regulated assets. In the future, in relation to certain sections of the amendment proposal, I would like to make some points in order to reach a consensus decision in the future. The draft text contains the rules for recalling the deputy chair of the minority self-government. That's Njtv. 108. The following paragraph 10 shall be added to Article 5 of the Rules of Procedure:. The Vice-President's term of office shall be terminated even if the term of office is revoked by a qualified majority on a proposal from the body of representatives, the general meeting, on a proposal from the President. In my view, it should be considered that the rules of dismissal apply not only to the Vice-President, since the President receives the presidential power from the body of representatives on the same procedure, from the assembly by election. Rules in force with regard to the President and the Vice-President under Rule 153 Paragraph 3 precludes the right to be exempted. Based on the experience of the last few years, the President's personality has hindered the legal operation of several national governments, hindered or prevented the establishment of a list and the representation of the national minority. The operational way to remove the President acting against the interests of nationality is by disbanding. But we know that the costs of the interim election must be advanced by the national government, and it can also be proved that neither the local nor the national are able to secure this from their own resources and thus fulfil the conditions. I also note that it is politically and morally objectionable that the head of the body appointed by the body of representatives or by the general meeting should be a member of the body by which he receives the mandate or decides on the budget of the organisation. It is clear from the foregoing that, in parallel with the discussion of the proposal on the agenda, further review of the legislative environment guaranteeing political and cultural autonomy, in which we count on the government's support and the organisations concerned, as well as the proposals to improve the representatives of nationalities. Dear Parliament, T/4230 presented by our committee. The legislative proposal No 13 clearly embodies the consensus-based proposal of the 13 indigenous nationalities, the submission of which was guided by the guarantee that the elections of the local government would be held. I ask you to vote in favour of the provisions which are also fundamental to the Fundamental Law, thus helping to ensure the self-determination of our national communities. Thank you very much for your attention. Hvala na posornosti! [[Applause.]]
u2023-06-16-83	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. No one asked for a two-minute speech, so we will continue with the proper speeches. From the Group of Dialogue, Ms Rebecca Szabó is next. Here you go.
u2023-06-16-84	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Indeed, this legislative amendment proposal is important, although it is not a coincidence that the opposition benches are being criticized. I would particularly like to point out here that my fellow Member, Mr Berki, expressed very important thoughts on behalf of the Dialogue-Greens. I would like to highlight another aspect, which, by the way, was also affected by Mr Ferenc Varga. There is a verdict here from the European Court of Human Rights. Last November, a decision was made that became final this year. Although your government tried to appeal because they did not agree with this decision, they expected the Grand Chamber of the Strasbourg Board to review this reprehensible decision, but after consideration the European Court of Human Rights finally decided to reject the original decision, to reject your request for review and, therefore, to become final. This is about the violation of the rights of nationalities in the national elections. On the one hand, they were concerned that those who voted for the minority list could not vote for a party list and were injured, in fact their voting rights were limited. Moreover, since they could only vote for one list, their election decision was indirectly made public at the moment they went to vote, especially in cases where very few voters were registered to one nationality. This particular case occurred in connection with the registration of a total of 140 voters as Greek minority voters in 2014, while the number of voters required to obtain the parliamentary mandate would have been 22 thousand, but this was not there. Minority voters can vote on minority lists only if they sign up to the minority register, but then they fall off the national party list. The European Court of Human Rights has stated that they consider this to be a violation and that the right of people belonging to nationalities to political decision-making is not sufficiently respected. As far as I can see this amendment, it does not respond to this problem. I'd like to ask you why. If this current decision of the Court of Human Rights is already in force, so they cannot appeal against it, why have they not dealt with it in this legislative amendment proposal, why have they not conducted appropriate consultations? [[14.10]] Moreover, the Strasbourg Council of Judges noted that this electoral system does not sufficiently ensure the free expression of the opinion of the people in the election of the legislative body, and it is of particular concern that those voting on the national minority list must give up voting on the party list. By the way, I can completely agree with this judgment, and I think it's a concern. I would like to ask how you would like to remedy this situation in cases where these nationalities are relatively small, so that this infringement does not exist. I'd appreciate an answer to that. Thank you very much.
u2023-06-16-85	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mr Attila Stojka. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-06-16-86	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen of the Nationalities Speakers! Hungary regards its nationalities as a value, and this is also demonstrated by the nationality law. It is regrettable, however, that the majority of opposition representatives, rather than the values of nationalities, are choosing or trying to present a political path, which is clearly harmful. And that is the word "adverse" and even subtle wording, because most of the speeches call into question the right of national authorities, especially the right of Roma ethnic authorities to exist. [[In the notary seat Dr. Winner Vinnai will be replaced by Dr. István Tiba.]] Why they can do this, they can think more of it than I can in their own way of thinking. At the same time, it is important to identify what it means to be a nationality today, what it means to be a national minority self-government, why it is necessary to establish a minority self-government, and why it is possible to establish national self-governments. Basically, my fellow Members, because they are creators of cultural autonomy. You would wish to exercise this kind of cultural autonomy, as Congressman Löcsei said to plow it up or even sprinkle it with salt, by questioning the system of minority self-governments. I reject this attitude and ask for it on behalf of myself, even the thousands of representatives of national minority self-governments who work every year and every day to make these cultural traditions and cultural values clear to Hungarian society. This is what gives us the wealth of our country, my fellow Member. When we talk about nationalities, it is also important to mention that this is not just the Momentum's view. A few weeks ago, I thought that there was only one personal opinion from Jobbik, when Brenner Koloman also questioned that the classification of Roma nationality as a nationality was even appropriate in 1993 when the minority law was created. What I see is that the opposition clearly starts consciously or unconsciously to eliminate and question the nationality of Gypsy. [[In the notary seat, Dániel Z. Karpat will be replaced by Bernadett Bakos.]] Ladies and gentlemen, A nationality truly lives in its culture, its language. The wealth of a country always lies in whether it sees resources in its nationalities. In Fidesz-KDNP, we see resources, values, and the diversity that is unique in Europe and here in the Carpathian Basin. We will work to ensure that the system of minority self-governments is as strong as possible, that they can perform the tasks that the Fundamental Law and, where appropriate, the national minority law provide for. Of course, there is always a way and opportunity to amend that law. That's what today's occasion is all about. The nationality committee examined the nationality law and made the necessary proposals for amendments. This draft law is before Parliament to be updated and to give nationalities the opportunity to express their identity in response to the socio-economic situation. I therefore call on the Honourable Parliament to support this amendment. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-16-87	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if someone could apply for a proper speech. [[There's no candidate.]] For a two-minute speech, I would like to address Mr Sándor Berki from the Group of Dialogue. Here you go.
u2023-06-16-88	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to the previous speech, so I asked for a two-minute speech. We fully agree that a nation lives in its language and culture and strengthens the nation that is now receiving. We totally agree on that. What I was arguing about is that politics has interfered in the lives of Roma national governments and has taken over and led these municipalities to waters for which they are not ready and for which they do not have a licence. I very much liked the way my fellow Member Ferenc Varga said that the current law could cover the other 12 nationalities, but for Roma nationality a greater or more role is needed. I welcome this, and we agree that the preservation of traditions and culture is working. I am happy about this, and this is very important, but today the Roma minority is facing bigger tasks. What I would like to see, and in the next amendment to the national minority law, I would even propose this if we would go to the future to develop this system, and that Roma nationality can represent itself better in Parliament. Of course, I wish the same for other nationalities and minorities. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2023-06-16-89	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Lajos Löcsei is next two minutes on behalf of Momentum. Here you go.
u2023-06-16-90	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I understand your outrage because the truth hurts. And hearing the truth, I think you've been thinking about a lot of things. I speak Hungarian, I dream in Hungarian, and yet I feel and wonder how I can be a proud son of my country. Gypsy ethnic government is a bubble that blocks Gypsies from real decision making. Let us ask ourselves, where do decisions come from? In gypsy minority self-governments, where they have neither authority nor opportunity to represent the local community? In the coming period, I will fight and fight for the size of these people in the municipalities as mayors, as representatives of the county, as Members of Parliament. Because I believe that we, especially Hungarian people, together, as the Member says, should not be separation, but together should be our virtue. We have had a nationality law for 30 years, with 30 years of experience, and there have been minor changes in recent years, but it takes real reform to really think like one nation. Because we are Hungarian people, we are Hungarian citizens, with a minority of one million. And let's finally be honest with ourselves that we really need this Gypsy minority self-government system, because it's a bubble. Thank you.
u2023-06-16-91	Thank you very much. For two minutes from the Fidesz Group, Mr Attila Stojka asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2023-06-16-92	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It's really short, but I'm gonna have another reaction. When you say, Mr Berki, that anyone in this country is taking political action with the national minority authorities, I suggest that this should be sought first in the ranks of the opposition. [[14.20]] I remember the situation that happened in January 2022 around the National Roma Municipality. Then this country must have clearly seen what happened. [[Róbert Honkers: Flórian Farkas!]] Today there is no Roma advocate, because the then president of the National Roma Municipality, who stood there and campaigned for the Prime Minister's candidate for the opposition, prevented the election of spokesperson at the National Roma Municipality. And I would just like to draw your attention to one thing. Mixing the issue of nationality with social or social issues is not necessarily a good direction. I think that the issue of nationality should be about creating cultural autonomy, while the social issue you are talking about must not be made ethnically based. What you do when you confuse the social issue with the issue of nationality and then ethnicize it, history has proven that it was a dead end in every respect. So I would like to draw your attention to this, so that you may refrain from doing so. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-06-16-93	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to tell Mr Sándor Berki that I do not have the opportunity to speak for two minutes, but if he applies for a proper speech, I can give him the floor. [[For signal:]] There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-06-16-94	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just want to respond briefly. It is precisely our conversation that proves that, unfortunately, politics has intervened greatly in the life of the Roma minority self-government. I remember 2022 differently. I remember what information came to me about the General Assembly at the time, and I admit it, both parties tried to pressure me there, and that's the problem. It doesn't matter which side you want to put pressure on, the governing party or the opposition; both sides have tried to intervene, and that's the problem, that's what I'm talking about, that politics has interfered with the lives of national governments. Because I remember that Fidesz, or so to speak, on the part of the governing parties, went to the leaders of the minority self-government with information, and there were no steps backwards that if it wasn't him, no one would. I don't give names because it doesn't matter. That's what I'm talking about. It's a closing thought. Both sides, all sides, get out of the life of the Roma minority self-government, and then deal with the task that is theirs. If that can happen, thank you very much. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2023-06-16-95	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask my fellow Members that there is still someone else who would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I am now asking Mr Secretary of State to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] State Secretary Miklós Soltész has the floor. Here you go.
u2023-06-16-96	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm sorry for the expression I'm going to begin with, but sometimes it felt like a man or two had something going on in the tower, something's gone. So it's like some people don't understand what this debate is about, it's the law. They confused the social law, confused the nationality law, and, by the way, confused local, regional and national self-governments. [[Rebecca Szabó intervenes.]] They mixed up the suffrage, mixed me up here... Congresswoman, who will never stand to be yelled at, has confused the judgment of the ECHR here, to which I would just like to say to you that the ECHR has said the following, and you should consider this well, because it must be said that their entire series of comments were anti-democracy. [[Rebecca Szabó: Father!]] It's not just yours, it's your fellow Members behind it. I'll tell you why. Because if you take the ECHR's proposal seriously, there are two things you do not talk about: one is how to resolve and resolve this issue; one is sorry, but the other is that Parliament is not required. Is that what you want? Is that what you want 13 indigenous nationalities not to be in parliament? Looks like that's what you want. So in some way, democracy is a problem. To add, there are two courts, one of which is the Hungarian Constitutional Court and the other is the ECHR, and these two courts have two proposals which are completely opposed to each other. Now, thank you very much, my dear Member, for coming here with your incredible knowledge and trying to put such proposals into a law on a completely different subject. Congratulations, you're doing great. [[Rebecca Szabó: Question! Questions!]] As, by the way, what Congressman Lajos Löcsei said is simply amazing. I ask for it in the name of all Roma people of Roma origin and on behalf of all Roma self-governments, that you say that they must be plowed and sprinkled with salt. What's this? That's your democracy stance? Is this how you imagine the future in Hungary, that because people of Gypsy origin are incapable of local government? There's two things mixed up. Where there is sin, where they have done wrong, yes, and the legislation must correct it, and also the legislator and, of course, the penal authorities. Now, now, now, now, now, now, now, now, now, now, now, now, now, now, now, now, now, now, How do you think there are 13 indigenous national governments, so we take one of them out of it, and, in your words, we sprinkle them with salt, grind them? How do you imagine that? Their views of democracy are characterised by their comments in this debate, their contempt for gypsy people, their contempt for people who have learned less or had less in life, but they have to say that they do live with honor. Once again, I would like to point out that you should forget about the confusion of social law with the nationality law. This is precisely why we have decided that, where appropriate, Roma self-governments, the Roma issue, are not under the Prime Minister's Office, because it is often true that the life of Gypsy and a large part of its life are social issues. I would just like to add quietly that we will not continue the humiliating policy that you did or did before 2010 and did that you gave people nothing but aid, aid, and work and opportunity. We are not continuing this, but we are giving the right to work, the opportunity, and therefore the rise of Gypsy is much greater and has had the opportunity over the past 10-12 years than before 2010. I would like to add one more thought to the opposition speakers. I do not want to discuss this with you, but I would argue that you are from an extremist party, Mr Ferenc Varga. Let me just give you an example. When you want to see how beautiful it is to have every nationality, let's say, the Gypsy's own theatre is most apologies, but the DK Niedermüller municipal leader, mayor, has chased away and chased away the 100 Gypsy Orchestras from Elizabeth City. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: That is not true, Mr. Secretary of State. He's just not telling the truth.]] So thank you very much for the good suggestion, but please don't say small, because the Gypsy Orchestra of 100 is a great value to the nation, but still, where they have a little power somewhere, don't destroy the possibility of such a value, but please point the direction... [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: Secretary of State, quite simply you are not telling the truth! István Szilárd Németh: Yes, you can! The president's ringing the bell.]] Don't get in the middle of this, 'cause you had your chance. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, As President, I am thinking of the chairman of the minority committee, and I thank you very much for all the work you have done here in Parliament over the past eleven years and over the last eight years. This is why we now have a two-thirds law before us again, and we can now talk again about the fact that, on the basis of your comments, the possibilities and rights of nationalities should turn even further in the better direction. This law, as I said, provides for the possibility of doing so in three areas. The work that we have done together, I believe that Parliament will vote by a large majority. [[14.30]] And I very much ask you to let go of the attacks that the very first speakers have done on the opposition's part. I know this was meant for us, but everyone got it. Forget about that. The fact that there is no 13th advocate, i.e. there is no representation of the Gypsy, was again a matter of the opposition, because they were the ones who had stalled in the activities of the national self-government, having fun with each other, taking steps until they ran out of the possibility of nomination, and therefore there is no representative of the Roma self-government. One thing this company is doing is paying and maintaining 40 councillors who may not be needed by a national government. This will also be regulated by the law. Thank you so much for listening. Thank you very much for your work. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-06-16-97	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I am now asking Mr Imre Ritter, President of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, as rapporteur, to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Mr. President. You have the floor.
u2023-06-16-98	Thank you very much. If I look back and try to take notes, it was, if I remember correctly, the only amendment in the specific bill that Ferenc Varga suggested that the income of the institutional councilor should be considered in the law alongside the school board; we will look at this. If we can do this with an amendment and it is justified, then we will do it. The other points, I think, were not specifically related to the specific bill. At the same time, I would like to note a sentence or two as a closing phrase. I thank Mr Secretary of State, on the one hand, for the detailed amendment at the beginning of the debate, for the government's support and for what he said at the end. I also thank Mr Csaba Nagy for his words and for his support. Mr Lajos Löcsei: I do not wish to classify or repeat anything he has said in any sense. But I want to respond to one thing. Nine years ago, there were more of us, who were advocates in all three cycles, who suggested that they shouldn't, that it wouldn't be better to try to make a completely different system. We have had very serious discussions, discussions and debates on this. I think it's over in the first cycle. There's no moment, we can't make a better system than this, but it's not a question that we're trying to make the most of what we can under the circumstances at all. So, if there is any meaningful comment and intention to correct it, we will continue to welcome it. It was the same basic thing, it was a strategic issue at the start, how the minority committee was doing its job, and we agreed to try to stay out of political battles and to try to put our strength, time and will specifically on national issues. I think that we have made the right decision on both strategic issues at the start, at least I think, and probably the others agree that, looking back nine years, we would not make a different decision today. What I would like to note, with Dávid Dócs, is only one sentence that I would like to ask that the nationalities of Hungary decide for themselves which identity is more important or less important, or is considered to be of the same value, because I think that this is the personal right of everyone in Hungary's indigenous nationalities. Thank you, Nacsa Lőrinc, for your support. Sándor Berki's comment: I think that there is no Roma advocate, under no circumstances can we do anything about it, I think he doesn't suppose. In fact, this is a very serious problem for us, as there is no Roma advocate. So this is the worst thing a national can do to you. The first thing we had to do was to ask Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of the Interior, after the election, for a meeting where we discussed our options together with the Vice-Presidents and six State Secretarys. Attila Stojka was also there. Just as Vice-President Alexov Lyubomir has been proposed by the Committee to the Roma Tender Support Committee, we have delegated him, not to interfere in the distribution of money, but to ensure that the minority committee, if there is no longer a Roma advocate, has at least some insight, and we will always look at Roma institutions and Roma issues in everything, as in the last few days during the budget negotiations. This situation is bad for us, too. Ferenc Varga's speech: I thank you for actually dealing in part with, or at least in connection with, a number of amendments to the law tabled today. I'm only sorry, and I'm asking that I spoke to him directly a month and a half ago, when, according to the situation at that time, we sent the submission to all the factions that these proposals were not needed now, but were sent a month and a half ago, which is why we sent the entire material until then. So now there's no time, there's plenty of possibilities for inter-wallet and other reconciliation. József Szolga's point of view is that, yes, there are differences of opinion on a lot of issues, as well as serious debates, because each of us, every nationality, has different goals, partly different goals, and our mentality is different, but Mr Secretary of State can also confirm that we are looking at things from a different perspective. We are having very serious debates from the Ministry of Finance through the Secretary of State. Everyone obviously wants the best, and at the end of the day we can get out of this, and we can agree, just as Mr Szolga József, who personally participated in the inter-ministerial committee, maintains his opinion, for example, that he should not become an institutional head of the local government. But at the same time, as the majority disagreed, they accepted and voted in favour of the bill submitted. I consider this extremely important. We respect each one's own opinion; the fact that the others think so and think otherwise does not mean that it can be harmed and accepted. I would like to say to Rebeka Szabó that the judgment in Strasbourg has not yet been dealt with. We will, the minority committee and the Association of National Governments. But I suppose it's just as irresponsible to say, as Imre Ritter is a private individual, because we've been doing a lot of work on the national issues of parliamentary elections, because I think it's an unfounded, wrong judgment, because, by the way, it puts the smallest nationalities at risk. But I don't want to get into this right now, I'm sure there'll be more to it. [[Rebecca Szabó: That's an answer! See, Mr. Secretary, that's how you answer.]]
u2023-06-16-99	Congresswoman!
u2023-06-16-100	Finally, I would like to add that, in the course of the work, there were at least 2,5 to 3 times as many topics on the table, these were the points in which we could agree with everyone, with the wallets, with the Ombudsman's Office, who was involved in all of this. What we couldn't come to terms with or find a better solution than the one we have now doesn't make him forget. [[14.40]] There will also be a next amendment to the law on the rights of nationalities, all the more so, as we discussed at the beginning that we are skipping things concerning the parliamentary national elections now, because next spring there will be a municipal, municipal, regional and national minority elections, so as not to jeopardise the next spring election with any controversial questions of the parliamentary elections, as we are already late. But it is certain that next autumn, for example, we will come with a series of other questions, such as the opening of registration for the national minority list for parliamentary elections, and there will be a time and place for this debate in Strasbourg, among other things. I hope I didn't miss anyone, and I answered everyone, and if and if so, then there's nothing left but to thank all the people who have made this bill in the last five months. I thank the participating purses, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Finance and the Prime Minister's Office for all the relevant State Secretarys-General, the National Election Office, the National Election Committee, the government offices involved in the work, the State Court of Auditors, the Deputy Commissioner for the Rights of Nationalities and, of course, the national minority authorities and my colleagues, the ethnic advocates and experts. And I would also like to thank Dr. Zoltán Fürjes, Deputy State Secretary, who, on behalf of the Prime Minister's Office, moderated the whole work, like the amendment in 2020 with a much larger volume. After all, and on the basis of this, I would like to ask you, the Hungarian Parliament, with respect, that, in accordance with the practice of the last nine years, T/4230 by the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities. Acting on the Rights of Nationalities of 2011 CLXXIX and XXVI of 2013 on the Election Procedure to support and accept our bill to amend the law. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-16-101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that it is possible to submit amendments by Wednesday at 4 p.m. next week. Next up is the 1993 XLVIII on mining. Act and Act XL of 2008 on the supply of natural gas General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission submitted by our Fidesz colleague, Szilárd Németh, is T/4251. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I now give the floor to Mr István Németh Szilárd, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-06-16-102	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, There is an ever-increasing war involving the dangers of expansion, a brutal killing in our neighbourhood, and in Europe a very serious American influence against the interests of the continent is sweeping through unpredictable war psychosis and sanctioned embargoed nonsense, controlled by the Hungarian leftist Ferenc Gyurcsány [[Lot. Elizabeth Németh laughs.]] It'll make you your own. In short, we live in a dangerous age of war. We can say that in times of danger, our most important job as politicians is to protect the safety of our country and Hungarian people in all areas of life. It is particularly important to provide industry, transport and, above all, families with secure and affordable energy, gas, electricity and district heating. This is the number one national interest, this is the number one national security task. Dear Parliament, Brussels bureaucrats and the US dollar left are not by chance pro-war and sanctions. Some energy market players, the large US and other multi-energy companies, aim to push out Russian energy completely, even if it means energy shortages and rising energy prices. Brussels is largely dominated by business, political and ideological influence overseas, not acting for the benefit of the European people. We can also say that the bureaucrats in Brussels and the US dollar left are stuck in the Soros-Mafia empire, because they execute virtually all orders on foreign orders and do not look at what is really in Europe's interest. As a result, energy prices have dropped across Europe, with the result that the competitiveness of the European economy is high, resulting in high inflation, leading to a recession and putting the security of public energy supply at risk. Dear Parliament, I can say that the majority of the Hungarian government and the Parliament do not accept this, and by maintaining the reduction of the rent and strengthening the security of supply, we also protect Hungary in times of war inflation. This is why the situation on the marketing of so-called LPG cylinders is also on the agenda. There are several settlements in Hungary where fixed gas does not reach, so consumers use mainly bottled, tanked or so-called village gas. The representatives of Fidesz-KDNP pointed out that there are often not enough bottles, and there is also a practice of selling only 10,9 kg of household LPG bottles instead of 11,5 kg. Zoltán Demeter, representative of Borsod's 2nd Constituencies, spoke even in the National Assembly, saying that there is a great deal of use of LPG around Kazincbarcika, but there is also a serious shortage at times, so there is no continuous and inadequate security of supply. On the other hand, Hungarian private chargers and distributors have two Hungarians, Mol and Prima energy and an American, and Flaga have indicated that their purchase prices and increased transport costs, as well as their labour costs increased as a result of Hungarian wage increases, have eaten their profits and even suffered huge losses since the war. As they do not have any supply obligations on this market, service providers have also included their entire exit from the domestic LPG market. Neither is permissible, as 500,000 Hungarians use some 4.5 million LPG cylinders every year, and in addition there is also propane-butane tank and village gas. They must ensure that they are able to heat, cook and produce, if they so wish, to live in energy security. My bill therefore serves a threefold purpose to settle this situation. The first is to return to the 11.5 kg charger, which must not be higher than the 10,9 kg charge, which is, by the way, the third cheapest commercial price in Europe today. Our second goal is to reach the residential LPG bottle with a charger mass of 11,5 kilograms wherever this is needed. The third in relation to the first two is that we need to maintain security of supply and affordability at the same time, and the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office is authorised to monitor and ensure this. Dear Parliament, I would ask my fellow Members to discuss and accept my bill for strengthening the energy supply of our country. Remember, Hungary is based on the threefold unity of national security, energy security and security. The members of the Fidesz-KDNP represent Hungarian interests here, in Parliament and in Brussels, in the European Parliament, because Hungary is our first. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-16-103	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am now going to ask Mr Attila Steiner, Secretary of State, if you would like to speak on behalf of the government. [[Attila Steiner rises to speak.]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor. [[14.50]]
u2023-06-16-104	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It is a top priority for the Hungarian Government to ensure the security of energy supply in Hungary and to do so in an affordable way, so in the light of this, we welcome the Member's proposals, as we see them as strengthening the security of domestic energy supply. We consider the proposed interventions to be justified, since the failed Brussels sanctioning policy has led to market anomalies that could jeopardise the security of domestic supply in respect of LPG cylinders. The price of energy has risen to unprecedented levels in the international energy crisis caused by the Ukrainian war and the failed sanctions policy. This represents an extremely high exposure to the Hungarian energy sector and thus also to the parties to the PB market. The Hungarian Government's position on this is clear: we do not support Brussels' sanctions policy, because we have a well-conceived national interest in preventing the spread of the sanctioning regime in Europe. The government will not contribute in the future to imposing sanctions in the fields of gas, oil and nuclear energy, as they would be very burdensome for the Hungarian economy and the Hungarian inhabitants. And we see that the treatment of the spill-over effects of sanctions has also required very serious intervention in recent years, and we have been working in the Ministry of Energy since we were established to ensure that the effects of the sanctions energy crisis are felt as little as possible by Hungarian consumers. Thanks to the government's efforts, there will be no energy shortage in Hungary in the future, and there will also be enough gas and electricity in Hungary, which has recently been acknowledged by LMP's deputy leader at a discussion. With regard to LPG, we consider the same objectives to be important, and, as the Member mentioned, it is estimated that about half a million people use LPG cylinders on a daily basis, and many are also affected by residential LPG and so-called village gas. For this reason, it is important to pay particular attention to the development of the LPG market and to ensuring security of supply here too. The Hungarian government also prioritises the energy supply of consumers away from the natural gas network, and for us it is a basic idea that there should not be a temporary security of supply disturbance with regard to LPG in Hungary. And in the light of all this, we thank the representatives of Fidesz-KDNP, who have indicated several market anomalies to us; we see that these anomalies must be dealt with. In the context of this legislative amendment, I would like to point out that the objective of the proposed regulation is supported by the government, we support the return of the level of charge of LPG cylinders to 11.5 kilograms, of course we support that these gas cylinders can reach everyone, and we also support that we can maintain security of supply and affordability. And for this reason, we consider it important that there should be an office that supervises this activity, so the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office would continue to monitor the activities of LPG distributors, the quantities marketed and the costs of licensees, as well as the domestic and international market price levels, and the energy office will publish a regular report on this. In addition, if market anomalies are detected, it will initiate, in its own right, a significant market power test or a signal to the Hungarian Competition Authority. These procedures, I think, exclude unjustified pricing of LPG gas and reduce security of supply risks and thus protect the interests of the Hungarian people and the general public. The amendments concern only LPG in bottles and containers and do not affect the fixed LPG service, nor will the regulation of the so-called village gas change. Finally, let me point out that the government is committed to ensuring security of supply and eliminating market anomalies, and, as I said, we support the motion by its representatives, as we see this contributing to the smooth functioning of the LPG market and to ensuring domestic security of supply. I think that this is in the interests of the Hungarian people, and the Hungarian families will benefit from this. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-16-105	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mrs Mónika Dunai. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-06-16-106	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The Fidesz Group supports this proposal because it aims at preserving energy security in Hungary and enforcing consumer protection. Unfortunately, we also find that in the case of LPG, traders have not always enforce the official prices introduced in 2013 by circumventing the rules. In Hungary, there are many settlements where there is no fixed gas, there is a tank, bottled or wired LPG, so-called village gas is used by consumers. The objective of the proposal is to ensure the supply of energy to gas consumers economically sustainable, in the interest of the user. As a new task, the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office continuously monitors the costs of PB-gas distribution licensees, as well as domestic and international market price levels, and regularly publishes information on all of this. Therefore, there are no regulated end prices, but in order to avoid possible market anomalies, the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office monitors and publishes the evolution of prices and costs on a monthly basis. If it detects an unjustified level of market pricing, it may, in its own right, initiate an investigation and even propose to the Economic Competition Authority to carry out a targeted competitive market investigation. It is an important element of the proposal that the legislation should also apply to cross-border services. The 11.5 kg bottle shall be 11.5 kg, which shall not be different and shall not be placed on the market. These procedures will guarantee the exclusion of undue pricing of LPG and security of supply risks in the future. The regulation on fixed-line LPG, i.e. village gas, remains unchanged. Public users will continue to benefit from reduced regulatory prices. Ladies and gentlemen, In light of what has been said, you, like the Fidesz Group, support the proposal that has been tabled, because it is in the interests of the Hungarian people and in order to protect the reduction of the rent! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-16-107	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the DK Group was Gy. Congresswoman Erzsébet Németh. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2023-06-16-108	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Just four days after Szilárd Németh assured people on origo.hu's side that there was no change in protection of the reduction of the overhead gas prices, the bill on the Parliament's website, written on Facebook's website by the Fidesz gas commissioner on the abolition of the gas prices for propane decompressed, led by a pink flamingo pen, leading to the official prices for LPG cylinders with a charger mass of 11.5 kilograms and LPG with a household tank, as they say and say they did not work. Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honour, Commissioner, Secretary of State. Well, that's when reality comes to light. I remember exactly when you said in a loud voice that the price of the authorities protects those who use LPG gas cylinders from having to face higher prices, but I think that, as in so many other cases, you have failed in this either. [[15.00]] In 2013, as we have heard here, the introduction of official prices in the case of LPG has not been enforced recently by traders by circumventing the rules, and with this sad admission, you have justified the need to eliminate official prices. In return, as we have heard here from the Secretary of State and the author, from Szilárd Németh, and then from now on the Hungarian Energy and Public Works Regulatory Office, we are strictly fighting unjustified pricing; you say that. This is what we know: when you want to protect something, you struggle hard for something, the end of which is always the wrong of the Hungarian people. According to press reports, you, the author, Szilárd Németh, said that you need to return to the 11.5 kg load weight, which must not be higher than that of 10.9 kg. But is there such a limit to 10,9 kg? Or can the price of 10,9 kg be increased at all, and then the same price will apply to 11,5 kg? From your various hints, it was concluded that MOL's industry among its ranks could convince the ruling party that they would no longer be charging LPG at reduced prices. In the spring of 22 the traditional 11.5 kg official-price bottles have developed a shortage, and, as you have acknowledged, this has significantly affected the poorest households, since where the wired gas is not connected, they typically use bottled gas for cooking. The problem has been noted by you, and yet you've waited a year to find some sort of solution. Of course, it is another matter that this solution will not be a real solution. But supply problems have not only occurred in the area of bottled but also in the area of retail sales in large quantities. According to press reports, there have been cases in which no major national LPG dealers have been willing to serve tank LPG customers to the general public on the grounds that they would only be able to sell the energy carrier with significant losses. And here is another point: Szilárd Németh also spoke about MOL, and I did listen in tears to the loss that this large energy company suffered from the distribution of LPG cylinders. So, I think that the 500,000 or 700,000 people, the family you're talking about, obviously that kind of gas supply could have been financed by MOL from its record profits. On the basis of the bill submitted, the solution to the problem will be that the government-priced LPG cylinders have been removed from practice because of the circumvention of the market, because the official price does not work, so they will eliminate it. According to the proposer, guarantee rules ensure that the unjustified pricing of LPG and the exclusion of security of supply risks are achieved. May I quote Zoltán Kovács, Government Speaker: do you really think this will work? Because in DK's opinion, we think it's not. I am familiar with the procedure of guaranteeing a few things, and then nothing of that will happen. I would like to remind you here that when the private pension fund savings of 3000 billion were stolen, you here, Congresswoman Selmeczi, and some of the Fidesz faction, promised guarantees that there would be individual pension accounts, and now more than 10 years have passed; I ask the Member who submitted the law: where are the 3000 billion and where are the individual pension accounts that you promised and which you have guaranteed here in front of the House of Honor at that time? According to statistics, the number of households in Hungary using bottled and tanked LPG is steadily decreasing, but hundreds of thousands of households are still forced to use this type of bottled gas to solve their energy supply without wired gas. In the winter period, heating solutions, like bottled gas, are typically needed in areas with lower average incomes where there is no fixed gas, i.e. households there could be more sensitive than the average if they could fill bottles and several cubic meters of tanks only at higher, non-reliable prices. In the reasoning of the bill, the author uses the term "not at all" in order to protect the interests of the general public. By eliminating the official price, these families, which mainly live in parts of the backward infrastructure, will not be in a better position, because now they will no longer have the opportunity to access LPG at a cheaper price. These poorest households are therefore affected by the imposition of the official price, since where the fixed gas is not connected, they typically still use bottled gas for cooking. It is therefore necessary to state once again that we are faced with an amendment, an amendment, which does not look at the interests of people with low incomes, but on the contrary, they will be adversely affected by the proposal, while the government is once again benefiting large companies through legislation. And, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur, as well as the lead speaker and secretary of state, who have heard so far, are talking about sanctions for inflation, despite the high energy prices they are talking about here, it must be quite clear, and I am sure that more and more people are seeing this very clearly, that there is inflation in Orbán, because of you, because of your government, your prime minister, there is inflation today, the price increase where it is, and it will not change or make this situation easier if you set the official price here for PB gas cylinders. The Democratic Coalition faction will not support this amendment. Thank you for listening.
u2023-06-16-109	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr István Hollik. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-06-16-110	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am not surprised that the Democratic Coalition has not supported it, as they have not supported the reduction of the rent in the last 10 years; why would they now support this proposal? [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh intervenes.]] At the same time, there is a discreet charm that at the beginning of your speech, you will try to protect the reduction of the rent by saying 10 years ago that this is a stupid thing, and you have been consistently attacking the reduction of the rent for 10 years. The candidate for Prime Minister supported by you has also made it clear in the parliamentary campaign that if you are government-led, this form of reduction of the rent will be abolished and will be led out. So I would like to confirm that only Fidesz-KDNP can be trusted on the issue of cheap, affordable prices and maintenance of the reduction of the rent. As Congressman said, we can confirm that we have received requests that have not recently been enforced by circumventing the rules in the case of LPG, and therefore the availability of LPG in many settlements where there is no pipeline gas is in danger. And since all the arguments have been made by the Secretary of State, the Member, I just want to confirm that we consider it important that LPG be available and that the price of it is affordable in the municipalities where there is no fixed gas, the KDNP will therefore support this proposal before us. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-06-16-111	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker for your better group is Mr Róbert Dudás. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-06-16-112	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, To tell you the truth, I've been thinking about government and pro-government proposals, on the one hand, that it's a question of hearing their own voices, hearing themselves, or believing what's on the paper, but constantly referring to sanctions. Those who voted in favour of sanctions refer to sanctions, so I see some contradiction on this issue. The bill before us has been trying to improve an authority-priced question for 10 years, and let's be honest, if it was frozen at some price level in 2013, it would probably have been necessary to touch this service in the last 10 years, but it should have been checked at least. [[15.10]] Because the bill is about, it also provides for, and it is about, what abuse they may have been, because they are not filled properly, with an inadequate price... As I read the bill, it occurred to me that the introduction of official prices for some basic foods, on the one hand, was accompanied by a great deal of chinnadrats, on the other hand, of checks, of grocery stores, but very seriously, shops were closed, but, by the way, the door had to be marked for what kind of government help they had provided, even though what Jobbik-Conservatives suggested was that basic food VAT should have been released, and that would have been a real help. My fellow Member, Szilárd Németh, said that they would protect the reduction of the rent, and Mónika Dunai, on the part of the governing party, insisted on this. Well, that's exactly how they let go of the cost reduction. Otherwise, in those settlements, but let's talk about resort areas, isolated settlements, where the wired gas is not yet introduced, and believe me, there are quite a lot of them, they are heated with LPG, they cook with LPG, they heat with LPG or they heat with LPG. For them there will be no limit here, there will be no limit to the fact that so far there is an otherwise reduced price, and then, in the case of excess consumption, such as electricity and, by the way, fixed gas, you will have to pay a higher fee, pay more, and here you will release your hands in full. And in that area people are released, because most of them and most of them, in fact, you can safely say that we are talking exclusively about small settlements; it can also be said that in the vast majority, or at least most, we are talking about elderly people, low-income elderly people in the countryside, who use LPG every day for baking, cooking and, in many cases, heating. There are a number of anomalies in this short bill, by the way, but perhaps the other biggest anomaly is that prices are not regulated. From the perspective of ten years, this has now been submitted, inter alia, on the grounds that the regulations have not been complied with by traders. Well, why didn't you check it out then? With regard to the convenience stores, which I mentioned earlier, they were very serious fines, and they were very seriously controlled, of course, because they were trying to make a success propaganda out of it. The gas should have been checked in the last 8-10 years, however; otherwise, it should always be checked to ensure that it is of sufficient quality, appropriate weight, load and appropriate price. Thus, if the government has not checked it, or the Hungarian Competition Authority, or I do not know who would have had this right and obligation, then I will not know in what form, on the one hand, the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office will do this. The other is what the price will be, which you will already think is unrealistic, because it is a question and a big difference between what the office will think is unrealistic, unrealistically high, and what the population will think is unrealistic. The thing is, their main communication is that they protect the reduction of the overhead. That's exactly the opposite. I have already explained why I think so, but perhaps I can conclude with it, and perhaps the conclusion with this bill and, most likely, it will be voted in favour of you letting go of the hands of the rural, mostly elderly people using LPG. Here's to you, cutbacks.
u2023-06-16-113	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the Dialogue Group is Mr Sándor Berki. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-06-16-114	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I looked forward to this debate because we talked about LPG cylinders already this week. I would like to begin my speech with one question, because I always get what kind of support there is for energy sources; how the reduction works; how the Government of Hungary supports families with such amounts. I ask you: in homes where there is no water, no gas and no electricity, and now there will be no LPG-gas bottle, what amount does it support families? Well, I don't know, but I'm sure you'll know. Thank you, if I get the answer to that, because, how or where are they even supported, because if there are no such opportunities, then I do not know what they are supported by. I might be able to imagine social firewood, but, well, trust me, these families don't have the money to buy it. So here's my question: what about this 600,000 household? Where do they have the overhead protection, where do they have the announced support? Where? I don't think so. The other thing I liked very, very much is that they are constantly monitoring prices and care; if there is a problem, they can initiate an investigation. About what? Well, we should have started tests right now. Now should have been the time to secure the LPG tanks or the price! I heard in the rejoinders the dangers of supply, that there might not be a gas bottle. What do you mean there won't be a gas tank? ! If you would like to support these families, you will add this support to your family's budget, they will receive the bottle for 5700 HUF, and you will really support these families. It's as simple as that, it could be a reality, but, well, it's not the reality, it's the constant outburst, it's the constant bullshit. I am telling you that you may now have lost the confidence of these people when we are discussing in Parliament that you are unable to provide the gas bottle. Well, that's what we're talking about, getting him into the market because they're afraid there won't be any supplies? ! Can't the Government of Hungary solve the problem of having a gas bottle for families? Well, I don't know. After that, you can refer to anything, anything from sanctions to sanctions, but it's a very simple task. For these families, partly poor families, partly rural families, but there are also metropolitan ones, I don't think it's a good message that we can't solve so much, there's no way to have a gas bottle! And then you can put it next to when you're gonna hit the threshold. I would like to point out that you have already achieved it, because on average we are talking about bottle prices of at least HUF 10 000 or over HUF 10 000, while, as I have said in several speeches, this work-based society has not been so successful in rural areas. Of course, in Western Hungary, yes, I always tell you, but in the northeast and the east, there are not really such jobs. There are good cases of net payments of HUF 150,000; you can calculate how much it spends on bottles, how much it spends on food, how much it spends on clothes, and then again I don't see where the solution is for these families. So it's 600,000 households that you're giving up, simply with a bill you're saying: dear families, we can't provide you with a gas bottle, we can't say anything, but you'll buy it for as much as the market has priced. This is your message, because I don't see any other messages right now. I just don't see it, and the families don't see how much it's gonna cost to get a bottle. $15,000? $20,000? How much is that? All the money's high for them. We're not talking about households where everything's okay. And once again, where is the overhead allowance, in what way, if there is no electricity, water, gas, how is the overhead allowance for him? Where's the amount that's dedicated to this 600,000 household if you don't even have a gas tank right now? Where? So for me, it is simply incomprehensible that we are talking about not being able to jump on such a simple task. They've been working this case for a year. I have also been to all the service providers; I have sent you questions; I have spoken in Parliament. I've been through everything, I've heard these things, but I think it's possible for these families to have bottles, and once again, we're not talking about camping bottles, we're not talking about weekend homes, where you need a bottle, you buy it once a year, and then you're fine, or two. And then the good weather comes, summer comes; they can't even collect twigs or trees, but if they collect some kind of fuel, they're going to start a fire at 30-40 degrees to heat a pot of water? I understand that you are separated from this world; I understand that you do not see the problem of a gas bottle, and you do not think that this is a problem, because it is not a big deal for you. But it is for those people, because for them, it's what heats the water, it cooks the food, in winter, maybe weed, understand. [[15.20]] But make this decision, I do not support it, and admit that today in Hungary you are unable to provide an affordable gas bottle at a price available to people, even from your income, but you will allow it and say that you will monitor prices. For how long? Where? What are you watching for? When are they gonna intervene? I simply cannot understand that we cannot cooperate in such a thing, and we cannot provide it today in Hungary, I repeat, the available gas bottle. I think you should think about that, there's still room for that, and don't let go of 600,000 households. And if you let him go, I hope there will be consequences, and these people will wake up, that you cannot count on the Government of Hungary for such a simple thing. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2023-06-16-115	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to make a two-minute speech. I give the floor to DK representative Gy. Congresswoman Erzsébet Németh. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2023-06-16-116	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to ask the author, Mr Szilárd Németh, and I would sincerely like to know that in a country where a government will require the caterers and caterers to submit the data to the National Tourist Agency in real time with the help of a software, there is really no way and opportunity to bring such a change of law to this House, so that if these prices are very high, let us say, the Economic Competition Agency has a way of interfering and, let us say, order that these gas cylinders will not be sold at such a price. Our fellow Member Berki from the Dialogue has very graphically explained what this will do if you release the hands of this 500-600 or even 700 thousand families here in relation to the LPG cylinders. I think, Congressman, that a little attention should be paid to how people intervene in their daily lives, and if they are already interfering, not with such born-grained things as the provision of cheese and cream to the burning National Tourism Agency, but, for example, in this case, there should be a solution for these families. In some way, they should be able to benefit from it, and if one of your very important measures introduced is the reduction of the rent, then these people should not be left out. They have no way to save money, they have no way of resorting to any other alternative means, because they simply do not have any other power supply in their territory, from which they can fix cooking or heating in winter. Thank you very much and I would like to thank the Member for answering specifically what I have asked. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-06-16-117	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I respectfully ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I would like to ask our colleague, Mr Szilárd Németh, as rapporteur, if he would like to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-06-16-118	Thank you very much, Mr President, thank you very much for your comments. I can say anything, but if you don't hear it, it's a shame to talk here. So it is unnecessary to say once again that this bill is exactly what the government and the representatives have perceived here, and everyone here has said that they have received various information about the lack of adequate supply, sometimes fluctuating to the providers of these three private suppliers in an unprotected market. So it's not a universal service. It's a free market. They don't have a supply obligation here either. That's what I told you. So these three private suppliers are two Hungarians, MOL and Prima Energy, and one American, and that Flaga made a very simple use of the loophole, which is permitted by law in such a way that I agree with you that if you bring a legislation for a 11.5 kg gas bottle, it was a Hungarian standard, which also disappeared in Hungary, it was the standard of domestic gas cylinders, the filling volume, and we brought the legislation to this in 2013 so that it would be reduced to the market, and they said that it would not be filled then. He's been played. But, by the way, let's just admit that these operators played this whole thing when the energy price increase started. So until then, they kept the situation and sold the 11.5 kg gas bottle at the reduced price set by the legislation. There's something to be done about that. It is very right, who say that there are 600 daily usages of 500,000 people, as far as I know, it is used by five hundred-a-thousand-thousand families, and the numbers show that 4.5 million people are out of this bottle every year, and there is also a tanker, and there is the so-called pipeline gas program. The village gas, by the way, will be left out of all of this, which will run according to the old rules. And that's when we had to do something, that's when we had to protect this 500,000 people. That's when we need to protect this 500,000 people so that their care doesn't endanger 500,000 people, 500,000 households. Yes, as you said, Congressman Berki and you, Congresswoman, are cooking, heating, using the bottle on a daily basis; this should not be put at risk. 'Cause these service providers said thank you, so we're done, and we're out of here. By the time this market is filled with any kind of power, these people will be practically frozen, starving, I think I can say that. That's what we have to do. We're here to stop this. If you like, we can put this in the way the legislation says: maintaining energy security in the area of LPG cylinders. Oh, and by the way, if we allow this process to be confirmed, we also need to strengthen it in any way so that we can't do what you represent constantly, so that we can free the market completely to everything. No. The only way to release this market is by guaranteeing people affordability in addition to security of supply. This resulted in the fact that the 10,9 kg bottle was charged at market prices, but they were paying attention not to press it at the highest market prices. So we don't have French, Belgian or Czech prices here, but we only have the Poles who have access to bottled gas under very interesting conditions, and the Spanish, who are considered a great power with separate propane and butane gas, they are somewhat cheaper. But in Hungary, the third cheapest gas bottle in Europe is 10,9 kilograms. We said that we agreed, by the way, to represent that we would link regulation to this and link distribution to a licence. This permission is issued or organised by the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, and it is under constant control, and can use all the tools that are otherwise defined here in this legislation. Therefore, the objectives are clear: maintain security of supply and maintain affordability at the same time, and assign to it a body which is responsible for ensuring this, working together or obliging the three service providers that perform the service on this market. We can talk about sour cream and flames once in a while. I do pretty good things. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-16-119	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The amendment proposals can be submitted next Wednesday at 4 p.m. A general debate on the bill on the new career of teachers will follow until closure. The government referral is T/4255. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I give the floor to State Secretary Zoltán Maruzsa, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-06-16-120	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The most important requirement for any transformation of the public education system is that the changes are in the interests of children and students. From the point of view of their prosperity and success, it is essential that professionals take care of them in kindergarten, in school, or in any other public educational institution who are prepared, committed, willing, and able to develop, who are motivated, and provide a high standard of care for those entrusted to them. [[15.30]] The aim of the new career model prepared by the government is therefore to improve the social, professional and financial appreciation of children's educators and educators. However, before I present the details of the proposal to you, it is worth clarifying some facts, as there is a great deal of misinformation in the public about pedagogical and professional provision, institutional structure and measurement results. Let's take a look at some data. It is often said that the number of teachers in Hungary is falling rapidly, and the trade unions have thrown a number of data into the media, and we have also heard about 4 thousand or 16,000 missing teachers. On the other hand, if we look at the publicly available statistics of the KSH, we see that 1 million 759 thousand children and students participated in public education and vocational training in 2010 under the guidance of 170 091 teachers and educators. In the previous academic year 2021, for the sake of comparability, 1 million 553 thousand children, together with vocational training, received 165 878 teachers and educators. This means that while the number of children and students decreased by 13 percent, the total number of teachers and educators decreased by 3 percent. It is no coincidence, therefore, that the number of children per educator in Hungary is 10 in the lower school, below the EU average, and around the EU average in the upper and secondary schools, based on the internationally recognised organisation, OECD data. I am not saying that we can sit back, because, as the pedagogical society is ageing everywhere in Europe, so there is a need for increased efforts to attract young people, but I think it is important to say that there are fewer children in our country, and there are still students in our country, as there are in many other regions of Europe. Another recurring suggestion is that the number of teachers has sunk to unprecedented depths. It is worth looking back at the history here as well. At the beginning of the 2000s, before the Bologna reform, 8 to 10 thousand people applied for pedagogical training each year, and 5,000 people were recruited each year. You're the ones who were in government at the time, and I'm sure you'll remember that they wanted to introduce a tuition fee. The Bologna reform came in 2005 and the number of applications fell over the next three years, as teacher training became divided; the teacher who wanted to be a teacher applied for master's training after the three-year basic course. The number of applications was then and thanks to this, temporarily dropped to 6,000 people a year, and only 3,000 people were admitted to teacher training each year. In 2012, we brought back the undivided teacher training, which statistically increased the application numbers from 2013 onwards, since we were able to double-book applications for the next three to four years. They applied for teacher training right after graduation at the age of 18, and also after the initial education because of the system. Therefore, between 2014-17, between 17 thousand and 20 thousand applications are shown. In 2018 and 19 the decision in principle to have a higher level of graduation and input secondary language examination in order to obtain a diploma was also a high level of application numbers in correspondence courses. In 2020, there were 13 thousand applicants, but the government corrected this with its decisions, and the recruitment was not tightened, but, on the contrary, we opened the gates wide and the number of applications started to increase again. In 2023, the number of applicants for pedagogical training is again over 18 thousand, which is essentially equivalent to the peak between 14-19. So I'm happy to report that teacher training continues to be popular, there will be replacements. Let's move on to the institutional structure. Before 2012, Hungarian public education was characterised by a predominantly municipal reservation, with an extremely different standard according to the material situation, as well as permanent debt formation. You've been struggling with this. With the establishment of the school district system and the elimination of initial problems, 60 independently-owned districts are now operating in a stable system. We have never denied that this system operates in a saving, financially disciplined manner. At the same time, it is the merit of the district system that the world has ceased to be a good school for a rich settlement, and the poor settlement can only have a weak school. You don't usually talk about it, but it's still a fact. For the last few weeks, the fact that the government has reduced the number of teachers and school psychologists has appeared in the press for many times. Of course, there is no similar intention, and even this government has doubled the number of professionals dealing with children with special needs since 2010. Compared to 5700 at the time, there are 10,000 teachers of medicine in the system today, and today nine universities are teaching medicine before a higher education institution before 2006, and thanks to better diagnostics and higher care, the proportion of those taking part in integrated education rose from 59 percent in 2010 to 67 percent in line with international trends. In opposition circles it is customary to say that the performance of Hungarian students and teachers is light years away from the international level, but reality shows otherwise. In 2022, Hungarian high school students won 2 gold, 15 silver and 27 bronze medals at the world's most prestigious competitions and academic Olympics. In the TIMMS survey of the mathematics and science of the 4th and 8th graders, Hungarian students performed high above the EU average in both of the years studied, ahead of the many mentioned Finland. But even in the PISA measurements, which basically eludes the traditions of Hungarian education, we have improved our previous results in all three areas of text understanding, mathematics and science, and at present the Hungarian average is only 1-2 percent lower than the OECD average, which can be considered as the world's elite club. And what is very important is the data of this measurement show that there is now a tendency to reduce the impact of the family background on school performances. I thought it was important to tell these facts because I have listened to the honourable opposition representatives many times and I suspect that in the next few hours there will be many negatives on the Hungarian education system. I claim that the fact that Hungarian public education is a bad performance does not correspond to the facts, nor is it true that Hungarian teachers cannot effectively prepare their students. However, I do not dispute that we have a number of challenges ahead of us, one of which is the most important of which is to achieve greater financial and social appreciation for teachers. This is precisely what the new educator career law aims at. Dear Parliament, The submission of the bill before you was preceded by perhaps the most comprehensive negotiation of all time. In the last year, we've conducted three pedagogical consultations. Most of them took part on the second, where 33,000 people gave their opinions, which we used when drafting the bill. The draft thus prepared was submitted to social consultation by the Ministry of Interior on 2 March, and since then we have consulted representatives, professional organisations and processed 1500 written opinions on a total of 20 occasions. All the teachers' unions, the National Teachers' Faculty, participated in the consultations, discussed twice the strategic round table, discussed the National Council for Public Education and the National Student Council, as well as the most important state and church supporters. As a result of the substantive consultation, the regulatory content of the draft law covering 58 subjects has changed significantly in 34 areas. It is worth comparing the two documents, the March and the bill that has just been tabled, there are a lot of changes in it. These data alone show that we are indeed behind a series of substantive and substantive discussions. The resulting draft law creates a new legal status, the so-called employment relationship in public education. The main aim of the creation of the new law is to establish a separate regulation, which takes into account the characteristics of public education, which strengthens the prestige of the teaching profession, eliminating the situation that today the employment rules of a teacher working in a public school are laid down in at least three laws, including the Public Employee Act, the Public Education Act and the Labour Code. I would like to point out that we are not abolishing the different rules for educators in public education, but we are extending them. The defenders of the current system, who represent the position of the, do not change, tend to forget that one third of the public education system is the private and religious institutions of the Kjt. does not even train, but the benefits of the new system will extend to all those employed in public education. The main element of the proposal is the introduction of a new performance-based wage system. In the survey conducted by teachers at the beginning of the academic year, 74 percent of respondents agreed that their pay should be differentiated on the basis of the performance of workers. The new wage system retains the five levels of the previous promotional structure so far, leaving an intern, Ped I., Ped II., master educator and research teacher, but assigning broad pay bands within which the employer will be able to determine the wages based on professional experience, performance and other professional aspects. [[15.40]] It is also important to attract young people to the field that age will not be a decisive element in the definition of wages. This will also make the new wage structure more attractive for young people. [[Kálmán Olga intervenes.]] I hope that everyone agrees that they are in great need, so I would like to ask you to create a wage structure that will make it more attractive for young people to be a teacher. [[Kálmán Olga: Do it!]] It is also important to develop the pay structure in the band because, according to the agreement with the European Commission, there will be a significant increase in wages in several steps over the next period. In implementing this, we have undertaken indicators, which require the flexibility of the wage structure. In this respect, the law does provide the basis for the implementation of the following wage increases. We have started this process of raising wages, we have paid from the central budget a 10% increase in teacher's wages from January, and from 1 July following the adoption of the bill, we will again provide the surplus of the national budget, as long as Hungary has access to the EU funds that we are entitled to, and since the change of regime, the highest rate of teacher's wages can be achieved. We maintain our commitments in this area. One of the key elements of the draft before you is that teachers working in a public education institution in one of the so-called beneficiary and catching up settlements, and those who, although doing their work in another settlement, have at least 10 percent of the disadvantaged or cumulative children in their institution, operate a programme to catch up with them, they will be entitled to an additional payment of 20% of their basic salary. Of the allowances introduced in recent years, the professional sectoral bonus is incorporated into the lease, according to many trade union requests, the other allowances remain under the name of a bonus or commission fee, but is no longer related to the projection fund, but is adapted to the percentage of the internship wage of the new wage system. The so-called Jubilee Prize, which has so far been granted only to civil servants, will be granted to all teachers, regardless of whether they had previously been taught in public, religious, or private institutions. At the same time, the civil servants' years so far, including the interruption of the legal relationship, such as the time of the child, are included in the qualifying period and are included in the 25, 30 or 40 years. So no one is more disadvantaged than they are now. An important element of the new performance-based wage system will be the annual benchmarking, on which all teachers were consulted last autumn and this year in the framework of the already mentioned questionnaire surveys. The draft was drawn up by a broad, professionally competent task force, and its testing ends in these weeks in dozens of public education institutions. On the basis of the proposals and the experience already available, the method of evaluation has been made simpler and more objective at a number of points. As we are aware that this represents a significant change in approach for the system of public education, performance assessment will be carried out in the 2023-24th academic year and year of education only in order to learn and learn about the system, and the system will then be sharpened. We would like to say that we expect this system to reward the most worthy ones, which is in the best interest of the child, the student. Let us also see that, together with the introduction of a performance assessment within the institution, we significantly reduce other administrative burdens for teachers. There will be no compulsory self-assessment of educators, individual teacher supervision, and the qualification will remain mandatory only for trainees. The aim is also to reduce and simplify administration, to strengthen digitalisation, to further develop the CRETA system and to extend the use of the customer gate. The freedom of educators will rise uniformly to 50 days, and the Director may continue to have more than 15 days of such leave. This is in line with the rules currently in force, so that does not change. Tendering remains the same rule when it comes to filling jobs. An exception may be made to this only in the case of a subordinate educator in a school district institution if the manager so decides on a proposal from the Director. The aim of the proposal is very simple: if there is a suitable candidate, it is not necessary to wait for the tender process, but to apply as soon as possible. In the case of managers, tendering will remain mandatory in the public institutional sphere. According to the draft, the probation period and resignation period will be a uniform three months in the future, and the termination rules will be uniform according to the current legislation on civil servants, i.e., depending on the length of the work experience, the discharge period will remain between 2 and 8 months, as is the case now. The current general rule, which gives the employer the opportunity to do so within 15 days, remains in the case of exceptional exemption. The weekly hours are still set out in the proposal for 22-26 hours a week, although further options are being considered in this area, further negotiations are still under way. The bill introduces an extra teaching hourly fee for overtime, the amount of which will be regulated by the government decree. At the same time, the number of students teaching basic arts is reduced from 22 to 20 hours, which was an old request. It is important to note that among those directly assisting the educational work, the posts in which the workers perform directly pedagogical tasks will be subject to the new legal relationship and the rules of the Labour Code will apply to other assisting jobs. In order to improve the situation of NOKS workers, in line with previous demands of trade unions for pedagogical assistants, we maximize the weekly number of hours to be spent in the group of children for 35 hours. In addition, we will extend the range of holders of a permanent teacher's card renewed in autumn 2022 to all staff directly assisting educational work. Moreover, the institutions will be free to redirect funded NOKS to their local professional needs, which will increase their professional autonomy. In terms of the tasks of the teaching bodies, the proposal wants to restore the situation before 2011, which means that the institution's basic documents, pedagogical programme, sms and annual work plan will be prepared by the director with the active involvement of the board and approved by the maintainer. There's nothing evil about it, it was before 2011. Despite misleading rumors, the age limit for continuing education will remain 55 years, and there will be no change in this area. Due to unforeseen events in recent years, we also considered it important to have the appropriate legal framework to ensure the continuity of public education tasks. The new law allows the extension of the school year for a maximum of one month only if during the year there is an irrefutable reason that makes teaching nationwide impossible and it is impossible to ensure that 180 teaching days are held. We see this as an emergency rule, a common hope that it will not be necessary to apply it. It is also an emergency provision that, if a place of assignment becomes unfit for education, students can be redirected to another school with sufficient capacity and temporarily continue teaching there; we hope that this will not be necessary either. With regard to the redirection of teachers, it should be pointed out that it is still possible to transfer a teacher to another school within the teaching district. So far, this has been possible for a maximum of two months, which will be changed to one academic year in the case of institutions with a district reserve, but this option will be more geographically limited because it will only be possible within the district; therefore in a smaller geographical environment. The proposal also guarantees that, in specific situations of life, the teacher should be redirected only with his consent, for example, in the case of the education of a small child or in the case of the care of a relative. In such cases, the cost of going to work should also be reimbursed, and in the new wage structure or the annual benchmarking, the employer will also recognise the potential additional burden financially. You've heard a lot in the last few weeks that the government wants to check the digital tools of teachers. However, the law does not make any difference in this area. The rules of the Labour Code which, in some cases, give the employer the opportunity to do so apply to teachers as well as to teachers. The bill doesn't change anything about this system of rules. Teachers' privacy remains inviolable, and according to the proposal, the privacy of those in employment in public education cannot be verified. The fact that the possibility of disciplinary action is returned to the law restores the requirement of gradual and formal proceedings, since there is currently no possibility of an interim step, in the case of serious infringements, only dismissal is the only legal consequence. Dear Parliament, According to our view, the draft law described above is beneficial to teachers, children and institutions in many ways. We hope that the new career model can contribute to the strengthening of the prestige of educatorism, ensuring replacement and thus indirectly further improving the quality of public education. Accordingly, I call for this House's support for this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-06-16-121	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Before we continue our work, the Parliament must decide on a meeting matter. Vice-President Dóra Dúró wishes to speak during today's general debate. Under the rules of the House, if the Vice-President's representatives speak, he may lead the sitting in the course of further negotiations of a separate motion only if the Parliament agrees to do so. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to agree that Vice-President Dóra Dúró should be able to chair the meeting during the further discussion of the proposal. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. It's a visible majority. Accordingly, my motion was accepted. Dear House, Fellow Members! Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mrs Mónika Dunai. Here you go, Congresswoman. You have the floor. [[15.50]]
u2023-06-16-122	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The fundamental issue at the beginning of today's debate is that in the horseshoe, in the parliamentary factions, we are able to find points of agreement in the system of challenges of today's and future public education, and that we can finally set off on a common path to the value-making, experience-oriented school of the future. Can we have a dialogue, a real dialogue for our children, can we represent the Hungarian school affairs, the interests of Hungarian teachers at home and in Brussels, not with words, but with actions? Ladies and gentlemen, The day has come when every political faction in the House of Law must declare what is more important: the search for solutions or the chameleon policy; when teachers are protested for wage increases at home, but at the same time, in Brussels, will they do everything to ensure that the money due to Hungary does not arrive for teachers? For us members of the Fidesz fraction, it is also in the best interests of the child in public education. Everything at school and everyone at school is for the children. It is a good school if everyone feels it is theirs, where teachers and parents work together along common universal values: for children. In a good school, good teachers are taught, respected by students, parents, society as a whole. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches, among them: And the government?]] The new educational career law is also designed to improve the professional and financial appreciation of educators who educate and educate children. Our goal is to make better money for those who teach more effectively, care more about children. Therefore, we are all committed in the Fidesz Group to a significant wage increase for teachers. By January 2025, the average salary of teachers would reach 80% of the average salary, 800,000 forints. Ladies and gentlemen, When Hungary receives the rightful return to our country, I repeat: it is rightful; both words are very important EU funds, since the change of regime, the highest rate of teacher wages can be increased. Teachers provide an important public service: education and education of our children are their vocation. This is what the proposal to introduce a public education employment relationship makes clear when it guarantees teachers greater social, professional and material respect. With the adoption of the bill, a performance-based wage system supported by the majority of teachers will be established. The teachers have been asking for this for a long time. Anyone who teaches more effectively, deals more with the children who are lagging behind, deals more with preparing talent for competition, who is more innovative, who organises extracurricular programs, will achieve higher incomes. [[Kálmán Olga: What does it mean to be more effective?]] By adopting the law on the new teacher's career model, the National Assembly provides the basis for further significant wage increases for teachers. Ladies and gentlemen, The government submitted the proposal after several months of comprehensive professional consultation. Everyone could have given their opinion. Everyone could receive suggestions; each educator, the trade unions, civil society organisations. There has never been such a long and wide-ranging conciliation process in Hungary. [[Szabó Timea: I've never had one!]] This also shows that it is a matter of real importance to us and to the government. Unfortunately, however, everyone could also see that the draft law was accompanied by the false news, mood and violence of the left-wing and certain pedagogical trade unions. These, my fellow Members, were not about children, nor were they about teachers, nor were they about school. The goal here was quite different. As a result of the real professional discussions and arguments, the State Secretariat, the Ministry, has already changed the draft on a number of points, taking into account the questions and textual amendments that the profession considered important and forward-looking. [[Kálmán Olga: That's not true!]] In addition to the profession, teachers, the Ministry also gave parliamentary parties the opportunity to be consulted in advance. The representatives of the left-wing parties were there in the first place, and I heard them and saw them coming with the statement that they were not here to negotiate. Instead of proposals of merit, they only made provocative statements, they made aggressive demands [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] Then he asked for another consultation for the experts of the left-wing parties, which they asked for, and you asked for it, and only three of the seven invited came. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It's embarrassing!]] Ladies and gentlemen, What the left politicians are doing is a hypocrite. At home, teachers are required to raise their wages, so where they are pathetically uninterested, where violent actions are organised, while in Brussels they work for 5-6 million a month to stop teachers from earning or earning 800,000 forints. This chameleon policy is not in the interest of teachers or children. The school, my fellow Members, is for the child; we leave them to tens of thousands of teachers. They deserve to be valued both financially and morally by society as a whole. But I ask you not to destroy the prestige of this profession by using, exploiting, obscene, destructive, raging, law-breaking solutions using individual teachers and students. I'm a teacher. My colleagues and many educators have told me that you have sent your opinion to me and to the educators of the faction about the points that should be discussed, which you should consider further in the interests of school affairs. But there it was said that street obscenities, destruction, do not agree or even distance themselves from them. This method, they said, doesn't help their cause. Only out of gender, honourable Members, there is no way to build a future. We all know that there is much to do in education, not just now; always and continuously, because the world is constantly changing. The Fidesz Group has listened to and listened to the opinion of the teachers. We fully agree that wages should be significantly increased. That's our intention. This law also provides the basis for this purpose. In addition to the above, the bill we are discussing contains a number of positive points already presented by the Secretary of State. Allow me to explain only a few of these. The wages of young beginners can increase significantly if Parliament adopts this law, since, in addition to age as a criterion and as a category-jumping factor, quality education will be given much more emphasis in the future. So a young educator who works well, lives in his profession will certainly be able to bring home significantly more money in the future. With this, we think that we will take a step forward in order for more people to choose the teacher's calling. I am convinced that when teachers take them out on the street and present a form of behavior, it does not serve the training of the future educator. Students, students who are now in high school, and teachers are political instead of teaching, taking them out on the street, dissuading them from teaching, do not serve the purpose of applying as many as possible to teaching higher education. [[16.00]] In the past, only civil servants could receive a Jubilee reward. If the bill is adopted, all educators will receive it, regardless of whether they were previously taught in public, religious or private schools. That's a positive. The basic freedom of educators, as Mr. Secretary of State has said, is not reduced, as you have said, but is increasing, rising from 46 days to 50 days. If adopted, the new law will allow the school year to be extended for a maximum of one month only if there is an irrefutable reason during the academic year, which makes the teaching nationwide impossible, and consequently the 180 teaching days cannot be realized. So far we know the replacement was on weekends, typically Saturday school day. The draft new regulation will make it easier for both students and teachers. We hope that disaster situations such as the war in our neighbourhood and the Covid epidemic earlier will avoid the world and Hungary, and we hope that there will be no need to extend the academic year in the future. The educator was already obliged to teach and replace in other institutions. The proposal has changed continuously in recent months because of the proposals received and the changes made, and so it is much narrower when a teacher can be required to work in another institution, such as a very important replacement within a district. [[Sic!]] or who is a mother with small children, she cannot be obliged to do so. At present, the Labour Code provides for rules on the control of workers, including teachers. And that was indeed another question that was distorted. Teachers' privacy is truly, truly inviolable. Only the teaching-related parts of laptops received from the employer or tablets received from the employer are those in which the employer can look. This, my fellow Members, is the case in every workplace, not only in Hungary but also in the democracies of the world. [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] The institution of disciplinary action is also changing, but it also protects teachers, because there is currently no possibility of an interim step, only dismissal is the only sanction that can be imposed in the event of a serious infringement. Now this could be more nuanced. Ladies and gentlemen, During the long professional discussions of the past months, the original draft put forward for social debate has changed a lot, even on the proposal of teachers and professional organisations. Now it's up to us, the Parliament. Everyone in the debate has the opportunity to further improve the draft law submitted by means of amendments. We wish to use this opportunity not only on the other side of the horseshoe, but also from the Fidesz and KDNP groups. We have discussed a great deal as I have mentioned to teachers, and there are some questions on which we have been asked to submit them as amendments to this law. One of these, perhaps the most important of all, is how many teaching lessons a teacher should teach a week. That's right now between 22:00 and 26:00 for the same pay. Teachers asked that when we had the opportunity, and to such an extent, we should deviate from this, since a fixed number of hours is much fairer, since teachers can get overtime above the fixed number of hours. The Fidesz Group, listening to teachers and their requests, invites the Secretary of State, the Government, with respect, to consider our proposal to fix the weekly working hours of teachers for 24 hours in the first step. Thank you very much for your attention. The Fidesz Group supports the proposal tabled and we hope that a truly constructive debate will emerge. And I also hope that, at least for today, for the plenary debate, my opposition colleagues and my left-wing colleagues have read the law and that we can debate accordingly. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-16-123	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Balázs Barkóczi, who is speaking about the pulpit of the platform. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Brave, isn't it?]] We'll wait for Congressman to wake up. [[It's happening.]] Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-06-16-124	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Now, after the victory report and the current Free People half hour, let's finally hear the truth. [[Robert Szigó: Come down! Intercoms in the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] This is the only way the law of vengeance refers briefly to the planned disenfranchisement that you, now wrapped in colorful and shiny robes, managed to bring to Parliament on the last day of the diligence period at the end of the school year celebrations. Of all the unscrupulous acts that you may have committed against Hungarian teachers, Hungarian students and parents in the last year and a half, I have noted to myself Tuesday morning until it has been revealed that you have even withdrawn the admission rights of the factions for this day, thus looting the teachers, students and parents most affected by the law from following this debate here, within the walls of the country's house. In other words, the policy of dictators, which you cynically call social dialogue, has once again proved to be stronger than the right of free expression than so many times in the glorious history of the Vengeance Act. "Be brave," said your greatest thinker at the time, the Prime Minister's personal good friend, at a dizzying pace, became a billionaire to Lőrinc Mészáros university students, but it seems that your fear now seemed stronger than the gas mechanic's wisdom. Nothing shows this more than the fact that Minister Sándor Pintér did not bother to debate the law of vengeance with the representatives of the parliamentary parties here in Parliament. I hope that you will do this out on Kossuth Square at the soon-to-be demonstration against those who are covered by this law. This, therefore, clearly shows what you think of the participants in Hungarian public education, how much you are interested in the situation of Hungarian teachers, the interests of Hungarian students and parents. A vengeful law is a fitting name for a bill which, on your part, is an open admission to the fact that in the past 13 years, they have not or have not wanted to do anything against the deteriorating indicators of public education, the ageing of the profession, the growing drop-out from year to year, the slowly unbearable overload and, in parallel, the depreciation of teachers' wages. Over the past decade, the situation has become untenable from the deplorable through the tragic. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Before that, it was good.]] And instead of thanking the work of a handful of dedicated professionals on whose shoulders today the structure of Hungarian public education is crunching and crunching and threatening to collapse at any moment, you are now preparing to further limit the freedom of teaching, make the situation of Hungarian teachers more difficult, and deprive the participants of public education of their new rights. After all, we can all remember that you first took the teachers' right to strike last January and then threatened and fired those brave educators who had the guts to face the destruction that you did in public education and then sank to the point of trying to stop the students' legitimate protests with tear gas, tonwood and handcuffs. Now we come to the final act, your vendetta will be complete, and then there will be nothing but smoking ruins, the scorched earth, the dubious glory of the victors, the winners who themselves know that they will eventually be the losers of history. Let's see what we should be debating today about public education if you are not being driven by revenge against teachers, students and parents. For example, we could talk about the shortage of teachers and kindergarten teachers throughout the country. The number of full-time teachers has been the highest in 2003 in the last 20 years, and since then we can talk about a dropout of 30,000, at present there are 16,000 teachers and 14,000 staff directly assisting in educational and educational work missing from the system. Departure hits primary schools to the greatest extent, 96,791 taught in primary education institutions at the time of the change of regime, which represents a difference of 20,000 compared to the current figures. [[16.10]] You, Secretary of State, have explained the growing shortage of teachers at the time by the fact that women with 40-year-old employment can retire, which follows a quote:, in public education institutions with 80-percent ladies, it has resulted in a significant wave of retirement. For this reason, last year, the government authorised Sep-man to allow retired teachers to go back to teaching without a government permit, which obviously does not even provide a short-term solution to the situation. But there is also a great shortage of professionals providing mental health for teachers and students. 52 percent of schools have indicated that they need a school psychologist, but this is not even announced as a status. There are not enough medical pedagogical assistants, social educators, consultants, youth and family guardians, because the schools determine in a case-by-case and inaccessible way how many status is allowed at which school. And yet the Vengeance Act is the most important thing for you? Or we could talk about the age of the profession, for example. The government also acknowledges that 45 percent of the domestic pedagogical society is over 50 years of age. At the same time, the number of young educators is constantly decreasing, both because of low wages and labour pressure, and because the basic pay of teachers is not covered by banks, so that a beginner educator cannot take credit and start his own life. This year, there was a course in science that only one graduate applied for in the whole country, and he also didn't put the specialty in the first place on his application. With regard to EFOP Plus, you have undertaken to make the teaching career a more attractive, real alternative for young people. Compared to this, we see that Hungarian young people have never fled the teaching field as much as they do today. And yet the Vengeance Act is the most important thing for you? Or we could talk about the year after year of deteriorating teacher wages that today have been completely eaten up by inflation in Orbán. From 2015 onwards, you assigned the teacher's wage increase to the so-called screening fund, which is eight years ago equal to the minimum wage of 2014, i.e. HUF 101 500. I don't have to tell you what that kind of money was for in 2010 and what it is now, the price increases and the inflation in Orbán over 20 percent in Hungary? While Hungarian teachers earn 60% of the average salary at home, it is 89 percent in the EU and 90 percent in the OECD countries. On average, Hungarian teachers have to teach for the longest period, 42 years to reach the highest payment category. The EU average, on the other hand, is only 25 years. And please don't start pointing again at the EU and the Hungarian left, as you know very well that, on the one hand, money abstracted from government corruption does not affect EFOP Plus funds, on the other hand, the wage increase could be covered not by EU funds, but also by the Hungarian budget, from the revenue generated by 27 percent of the record VAT or the amounts left behind after the state investments stopped. And the Vengeance Act is still the most important thing for you? Or we could talk about the overload of teachers and, at the same time, the underfunded education. According to union calculations, if you measure and add replacements in 45 minutes, an average educator teaches 26 hours a week. However, most of the work of teachers is not tied up by education, but by preparation and administration, so the average Hungarian teacher works 56 hours a week. In addition, home administrative work, i.e. preparation for the next day's classes, and repair of the test on a weekly basis, will take another 18 hours. The workload of teachers in Hungary is high in international comparison, but even more is the problem of not paying overtime. So over 40 hours a week plus 16 hours of work, counting the average wage, did 4 billion HUF 144 million a month, and about HUF 50 billion a year, but it meant unpaid, invisible work. And why is that? Because over the last ten years, funding for education has been reduced from 4.7 percent in the area of 2011 to 3.9 percent this year, which means that this year, in real terms, you will have 13 percent less education than last year, about 800 billion forints less. And the Vengeance Act is still the most important thing for you? Or we could talk about the digitalization of education promised for years, but so far it has failed, which, during the closure of the Covid epidemic, has only further deepened the inequality between children born to the luckyest family and their poorer associates. And what did Hungarian public education receive from you instead of digitalization? He's playing a system easily hacked by a couple of boring hackers out of tens of billions of buddies, leaking classified and sensitive data from teachers, students and parents to the Internet. This was the Krêta scandal you've been trying to cover up for months. And wonder what happened? The day before yesterday, through the same KRÉTA system, parents were encouraged to give their children permanent gifts with the money they received for graduation with Hungarian State Paper. Absurd, we would say, if you hadn't developed something even bigger by saying that out of the 600 thousand laptops promised by Miklós Kásler, purchased from HUF 200 billion, only 120 thousand were distributed to students and teachers, and see again a miracle! it was only last spring, that is, in the period before the parliamentary elections, but since then, not a single one. And the Vengeance Act is still the most important thing for you? But we could talk about the restriction of freedom of teaching, the lack of free choice of textbooks, the withdrawal of teachers' right to strike, the intimidation and firing of teachers, the lack of equal opportunities in education, the lack of an independent Ministry of Education, the lack of education in the 21st century. To the hundredth century about his unappreciated domestic circumstances, the boarding schools, the break-down ceilings, the rural container schools. These are the most serious problems of public education at present. And instead of engaging in dialogue with the representatives of the profession, with the broad sections of society and with the parliamentary parties, we need to talk about today, while lying that the submission of the Vengeance Act has been preceded by the most comprehensive and longest negotiation of all time, while the government has only engaged in substantive negotiations with the trade unions that are financially dependent on it, while there have been mere concordations with independent trade unions, student organisations and civil society organisations. In fact, you have given professional organisations only eight days to comment on a legal text of more than 100 pages without any meaningful explanation, and you have not responded to the opinions received after more than three months. And what we need to talk about is, while you are lying about the objectivity of teacher evaluation in the Vengeance Act being ensured by the system of benchmarking, while you would measure the quality of pedagogical work on indicators such as the absence, dress or even national commitment of students, which have nothing to do with the competences of teachers. You are lying that you are committed to raising teachers' wages while lying and falsely pointing only at Brussels when it comes to the existential appreciation of teachers and, instead of raising wages, increasing the number of ad hoc replacements that can be ordered from 30 to 60 per year, increasing the workload of teachers, detracting the right to strike, threatening and firing teachers if they do not join the ranks dictated by power. You're lying about making the compulsory transfer system easier for teachers to move, while ripping teachers from their classes and children from their teachers, increasing the number of teaching teachers in state institutions to over 50 percent, and treating teachers as slaves and students as soldiers. Your law of vengeance, called the Status Act, increases the workload of teachers without the chance of a real wage increase, takes away their civil servant status, and deprives the faculty of their decision-making rights in matters concerning their own school, by political commissars, who, threatening to fire teachers, and relaxing in Nice from millions of public money, who do not suspect the inner life, structure, traditions of schools, and by handing it into the hands of the school district leaders. Dear House, The Social Democratic Government, led by Dobrev Klára, will work to ensure that each child has equal opportunities in public education and receives education of the same quality, regardless of his place of residence, origin and the financial potential of his parents. And so that this can be achieved, to all of us's common future, the quality of XXI. We will invest in centuries of education, including existential and moral appreciation for teachers, daycare workers, kindergarten educators and their educational-educating staff. We will eliminate inequality, end the intimidation of teachers, and restore the autonomy of schools and the freedom of teaching by eliminating the school district system. [[16.20]] We will create a independent Ministry of Education, and we will abolish the Vengeance Act, because this is what the public education actors, parents, students, teachers expect us to do, and that is what Hungary expects of us, those who will soon be out on Kossuth Square. I suggest that you join them, which would do the most for Hungary. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-06-16-125	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! [[Endre Tóth rises to speak.]] No, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group, Mr István Hollik. It'll come to you then, Congressman. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-06-16-126	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, From the previous speech and from the lurking and making calls of opposition representatives, it is quite clear that you have not read the bill before us, but you are not really interested in what is in this bill. You simply see social groups as political prey, right now, teachers, and use them as a tool to raise the mood against the government. This isn't the first time they've started this. It's not the first time they've done it. We know it's the old left-wing recipe. You may remember, fellow Members, when we discussed the Code of Work here in this House. I'm sure we all remember it. [[Szabó Timea: That was the slave law!]] That's right, thank you very much for your confirmation, Congresswoman. You were talking about a slave law. Two things were said then, that everyone would be forced into overtime, and that, given the opportunities provided by the law, employers would not pay for it. They used it to drive people crazy and spread lies. [[Szabó Timea keeps interrupting.]] What happened next? Nothing in the world.
u2023-06-16-127	Excuse me, Congressman. Congresswoman Timea Szabó! I warned you once today. I told you what it means to be warned again. I don't want to live with this device. Go on, Congressman.
u2023-06-16-128	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It obviously hurts to be confronted with your own lies. They lied then that people would force hundreds of thousands of people to do something by the power of the law they didn't want. Did you? We all know it didn't. The Hungarian man is quite self-conscious, and if that had happened, well, we would have seen the workers on the street. What did you do? After all their lies, like they did their job right, they went home. They scolded me a little, spread lies and went home. But then, for example, the social law, which Congresswoman Timea Szabó described as lex dead in this House. Because the social law is added to the order of care, you've already considered that the state is withdrawing from full social care. It was exactly the same recipe. They were making up lies, using a group of social workers to attack the government. And then, after the debate took place, as quickly as they grabbed a subject, they threw it away as quickly as possible. It was only important to you as long as it was possible to create a mood. They're doing the exact same thing right now, inside and out. Only now they have taken a step towards insatiableness because they are trying to show themselves that you are patrons of educators, even though your fellow Members are actively working in Brussels for HUF 6 million net so that teachers cannot receive their gross salary of HUF 800,000. The truth hurts, but that's it. That's why Momentum representatives, DK representatives and Jobbik representatives work. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: The 13-fidesz congressman does nothing!]] And in vain, Ferenc Gyurcsány has made it clear that they are working to prevent EU funds from arriving. Like he said, all you have to do is throw down a legal robe. Anna Donáth also proposed a new legal robe for the Commission when she said that the education system, education reform, should now be included among the conditions. So the left-wing intention is quite obvious. You're here to attack the government, sacrifice the teachers and the teacher's wages. It is your fault that teachers cannot earn gross HUF 800,000. [[Defiance on the opposition side.]] We have heard numerous criticisms from the DK representative here. Who, then, is to express these ill-advised criticisms which have been received from the air and which do not take into account any facts? The representative of the party of Ferenc Gyurcsány wrote these criticisms, who, when they governed, were the ones who took a month's wages from teachers. They were the ones who closed 381 schools in rural settlements. And it was you who made it impossible to train teachers by making it pay twice, once during the Horn government and once during the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government. And yes, Mr Barkóczi, I agree with you on one thing: indeed, in 2003, most teachers worked in the system, but thanks to your education policy, 15,000 teachers left the field. 15,000 teachers have left the field! So you've been separated from 15,000 teachers. And I'll tell you honestly, I don't even want to think that if the shadow government on the left got into power, then a man like you, a politician like you, would represent the educators who were convicted of abuse. Do you think a convicted man could represent the teachers? I don't think so. You say you're lying, that you're making the mood outside and inside, that there were no negotiations or that these negotiations were just apparent. Let's look at the facts. Twenty meetings took place from 2 March 2023 and 1500 written opinions were processed. The teachers' union organisations involved in the consultations are: National Faculty of Education, Round Table of Public Education Strategy, National Council for Public Education, National Student Council, and the most important state, church and private supporters. But the proposal was expressed by the Hungarian Academy of Arts, the organisation of training schools maintained by higher education institutions, the National Association of Large Families, the National Council for Youth, the National Association of Municipal Governments, the Association of National Local Governments and the Association of Local Governments with County Rights, as well as the Minister invited you to a nine-party consultation. The other issue is that you have not been very willing to take part in this professional consultation. As a result of the substantive discussions, the regulatory content of the draft law covering 58 subjects has changed in 34 areas. This is not a meaningful discussion that 58 requests for changes have been received, and the government has followed the proposals of the opinion makers in 34 areas and has changed the bill. I think that this bill, the law on the teacher's career model, basically sets out three important steps that will help to improve the professional and financial appreciation of teachers, as the Secretary of State said. The first important thing is the question of wages. I would also like to stress that Fidesz and KDNP are committed to ensuring that the teachers' financial value is adequate, so we will do everything we can to ensure that teachers earn a gross HUF 800 000 in spite of your minework. We consider this to be an important step forward and, moreover, this proposal was made by teachers, and 74 percent of respondents agreed that employee pay should be differentiated on the basis of performance. It is therefore important that higher financial prestige is performance-based. It is also important that the new law provides for freedom and the Jubilee Prize. The basic freedom of teachers rises from 46 days to 50 days. This means that teachers can expect ten weeks of leave, so those who are teachers. [[16.30]] Another important definition or wording of the law is that teachers, teachers, must teach hours between 22 and 26 hours. But the teachers did make requests in this direction, too. We think, as my fellow Member, Mónika Dunai said, that this can still be a negotiating basis. I would also ask the representative of the government to consider adopting the proposal to set the number of hours required to be taught 24 hours a day. For our part, we could support this on behalf of the Christian Democratic People's Party. There is still time for such an amendment. I'm sure we'd support that. All in all, I can say that the child is the first in public education, and this new teacher's career law will also serve the purpose of improving the professional and financial appreciation of educators who teach our children and who are more effective in teaching, will look more closely for our children in this new system. That is why I am asking my fellow Members not to tease me, not to spread lies, but rather to stand by teachers and support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-16-129	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the Momentum Group is Mr Endre Tóth. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-06-16-130	Thank you very much for the floor. My beloved brothers, do not avenge yourselves. [[Romans 12:19]] . The Bible teaches us not to be vindictive. Dear fellow members of the Government, you are now seeking revenge on teachers for the protests of the past year and a half. Yet, they claim to be the only true defender of the Christian faith in Hungary. Don't you feel the contradiction in that? It is rarely recognized publicly that vengeance inspired this law. But there are examples of unscrupulous honesty. I hope there will be so much benefit to the status law that people like you will be able to get off the field this is what Tamás Cseri said to a protesting educator in Hódmezővásárhely. Obviously, you will now deny the motivation for revenge, because, quoting Secretary Maruzsa, you would be in great difficulty if you always had to tell the whole truth. [[A round of applause in the dialogue.]] But how else could it be understood that instead of fulfilling the demands of protest teachers, they will only make their situation worse? How else could it be understood that 15 protest teachers were fired? How else could the possibility of disciplinary proceedings and six-month penalty be interpreted? The teachers were jumping too much, and now the empire is fighting back. It's just, you know, there's nothing lower than revenge on the vulnerable people you've got in your care. Well, that's what we're witnessing here. But the worst part is that your petty revenge threatens the future of the entire country, because a total of 4976 teachers are planning to resign if you accept the Vengeance Act. Yet you insist. With one move, we will be able to increase the shortage of teachers to over 20,000, and from September they will feel the weight of endless substitutions in all schools. Yet you insist. There are not enough candidates for teachers' studies, 23 students this year, 22 students of chemistry have applied in the first place throughout the country. Yet you insist. Well, how are they gonna look at the students without a teacher or the students who lost their homeroom teacher? How will they look at honest - paying but still have to receive a private teacher in the eyes of parents? How do they look at their beloved profession in the eyes of teachers who are forced to say goodbye? I didn't. Is revenge worth the price? Is it worth all this damage and suffering for your power vendetta? But I know I'm asking you this, because when you apply for a speech, you're going to get your lying government panels straight-cut in an inventor named Antal Rogán's booth, and you're going to keep saying it until you believe it. It's as if I'm repeating the instructions of a self-proclaimed motivational trainer: we've consulted everyone, we've consulted everyone. But even though a statement is repeated many times, it will not be true, because they refused to negotiate at all with the civilians who organised the protests. They sat down with the unions, but somehow they could not hear their simple request that they did not want a law of vengeance, either in watered-down form or in any form. But not only do they not want to introduce the Vengeance Act, but none of the relevant actors in the education sector are in favour of it. Not only do serialist libs conspire with lizards oppose the introduction of the Vengeance Act, not only trade unions, educational researchers, protesting civilians, students and parents, but also more conservative actors in the education sector, such as Bence Barlay, director of the St. Imre High School of Újbuda, who told a Christian portal a few days ago that the law was a nuclear strike for disillusioned teachers, and if the government accepts it in its current form, it will further destroy the prestige of the teaching career. But even Péter Horváth, President of the Pedagogical Faculty, which was created by the government, cannot be accused of being left-wing, said that the bill contained the attraction to the field, and the maintenance on the course I do not see that it is promoted. Mistakes, but there are some people who think there's nothing more serious about revenge laws. One of them is Ferenc Karsai, gym teacher, Fidesz mayor of Budafok. According to him, those involved simply don't understand the government's good intentions. He's got a soul. Obviously, it's the Fidesz politician who's been talking about it, and the educator's personality has been eaten up in politics for decades. But besides him, many educators are filled with endless anxiety by the Vengeance Act. They feel exactly what the government is up to. They relentlessly take away their employees' rights, making all teachers vulnerable to their school district and school leaders. If you're not one of the liblings, you can be taken from your board, from your former students, and transferred to another school. I understand you're preparing for a worsening teacher shortage, but have you ever heard of how important it is for students to have stability, to have a trust relationship with their teachers? This can be destroyed by such a transfer; not to mention the teacher's working relationships and personal life. The rights and autonomy of teachers are violated at many points by the Vengeance Act, the resignation, the extended academic year, the exclusion from the adoption of the pedagogical programme and the text, and could be classified for a long time. No wonder thousands of people are planning to resign because of the introduction of the law. One teacher put his thoughts to me: I am a teacher, I am badly affected by the Vengeance Act, and I am going to quit public education, but that is not what I am really worried about. My heart hurts because of the kids, they don't get quality education under these circumstances. There is no more a balanced teaching staff, the NAT is not for their benefit. What future do we have for them? How will we look them in the eye when we see their struggles in their adult lives? No one wants this law but the government. But obviously, despite all the cars on the highway, the street fighter Viktor Orbán, with the police captain with the moustache, is still driving in the right direction in the passenger seat. They put the blue blinker on the blacked-out service limo, and then let the geeky shirt teachers out of their little Suzuki. Dear members of the Government. If the future of the nation is really important to you and you don't want the ceiling to fall on you when you're talking about family-friendly governance, then it's time you had a different approach to education and educators. I know that it seems difficult for many of you, such as Nóra Király, Fidesz Nújbuda, to put it together in your head, but the quality of education is as important to families as financial support. Because as long as they're willing to communicate only in the language of force with teachers, they'll vote with their feet and leave the field in bulk. In 2022, 5316 teachers left the school district, 42 percent more than a year ago. Would you like to set a new record this year? There are 37 of you in the pro-government benches who were educators themselves. How will they account for the support of this anti-teacher law in front of their former colleagues? This morning, I placed on your table a chalk and a sponge with my fellow Members at the moment, and let them recall the memories of the classroom. I suggest that you go back to your former school and ask some of your former colleagues what they think of the law, to help in any way solve the crisis in education. I assure you, you will receive devastating answers. But here's the good news. If you 37 people don't vote for this outrageous law, it won't pass. If you have a spark of solidarity with your former colleagues, then stand up for them, because if you submit to the faction discipline, you will betray them. [[16.40]] You know, when an employer is confronted with the fact that his employees are not satisfied and quitting their jobs, he has two choices: either he creates better conditions and tries to replace the missing professionals, or eviscerates the remaining workers, and thus the situation is that one has to work for more people. You have obviously chosen this second way: you do not want to reduce the shortage of teachers, but to cover them up, and not to value teachers more, but to burden them more. The mandatory hours were not reduced in their original proposal, which remained at 22-26. This amendment 24 has now been included, with the problem of increasing the workload for many teachers, as many are now set up for 22 lessons. So this is not a reduction in the workload. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] On the other hand, they've increased the number of replacements that can be set. So the workload has clearly increased on the teachers. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You don't understand, the problem is that you don't understand!]] Here are the payments, and here comes the biggest illusion, and Uri Geller hasn't bended the spoons as cleverly as you do reality. If you listen to pro-government politicians, then millions of dollars are just going to be given to teachers. [[Nacsa Lawrence: 800,000!]] It is clear, however, that the minimums required by law for a beginner represent only a gross increase of HUF 9,000 and a wage reduction for a 20-year-old. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] It is difficult for you to believe the story about the external limits of wage increases, by the way, that only 3.6 percent of GDP has been spent on education in this year's budget, which is a historic low point. When the country came out of the crisis in 2010, this figure was still 5.8 percent. That's how much you care about the educated heads of men. But we know that educators are the ones who are always ahead of wage increases, only the Canaan somehow never comes. In fact, they also hear from Bence Retvári that their wages have increased, and then in the shop there is less of them in the shopping basket. 'Cause, you know, the government and the corps that always keep their promise, if they promise money, they keep that, too. Therefore, there is no guarantee in this law that the income of all teachers will indeed rise. But they're also talking about performance wages, which they want to introduce without anyone knowing the exact criteria. But it is not possible to measure the performance of an educator fairly with a rigid approach. The principals are thus brought into an insurmountable dilemma: either they try to differentiate, causing huge internal tensions in the faculty bodies, or they define wages in a uniform way, but then we cannot talk about real performance wages. In general, no one likes benchmarking, no one likes it in any workplace, but this is what Zoltán Maruzsa said all over the world. They know, therefore, that they do not want to reduce the retention of the track, but they want to introduce it. It's like they're going against their own EU commitments on purpose. The government and Parliament will not unilaterally introduce rules to increase the workload of teachers, to limit existing professional autonomy or to reduce the attractiveness of the profession in the EFOP Plus operational programme. Now, however, all the elements of the commitment are being violated. I know, now they're gonna be yelling that there were a few points where they gave in to the teachers. But I beg you, it's like a man in a dark alley walking up to us, that he's gonna beat us half to death, and then we're finally gonna get away with some negotiation after three slaps, and then we're gonna be grateful to the attacker that he broke our noses and didn't kick our kidneys. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: What places do you go?]] Believe me, the teachers won't be grateful to you for this law, and they're really trying to understand you, they're really trying. For example, a teacher from Budafoki, Károly Pallanki, summarized the government's arguments with the following set: The person who does the most for the children will earn the most, we will give up up to 80 percent of the average wage, of course, only if the left arranges for us to come to EU taxpayers' money, because we are unable to handle it, even if we have a man-faced fidesz, we have sent for it to evil Brussels, and we are sorry to give it to the budget. Well, isn't it better than one man than 150,000? Either way, if we double the teacher's salary, we'll just settle for the Czechs, well, then why bother. Instead, we discussed it twenty times, no, twenty times, because once the doorman was asked by the Minister of the Interior that he thought it would be good if the teachers were given status. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Shame on you!]] And there was even a meeting that had teachers on it. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Shame on you!]] And there was even a meeting that had teachers on it. (The president's ringing. ) Okay, they couldn't say anything, but I saw one of them nod once, so they can't say no one agrees. (Lőrinc Nacsa: Shame on you!) We even amended the law based on the proposals we received, and we decided that we didn't have to wear footcuffs, only within school. It's also fake news that they'd be checking our phones. It'll be enough to switch to a Vodafone package with a Huawei device, and the rest will be settled with the Attorney General. But the point is recognition of the profession, so we're gonna have to give everyone a weekly Secretary of State toast to his e-mail, we don't have to give you the address, we already know. This is what Károly Pallanki wrote. Yet, this could be done differently, and they should not go too far for good examples. [[Timea Szabó and Lőrinc Nacsa intervene.]] For example, we have our eastern neighbour, Romania, where after only three weeks of strike, the government has been able to agree with the trade unions on the increase in wages. You didn't make it in a year and a half. And there is also the Czech Republic, where Parliament recently voted to increase the salary of Czech teachers to at least 130 percent of the average wage. At home, you want to reach 80% of your average graduating salary in two years' time. You could do this right, but you don't want it, because you think education is a dangerous thing, and there's gonna be too many critical thinkers in this country. Plus, there's the desire for revenge for teacher protests that have been going on for a year and a half. Sadly, this desire for vengeance has become the basis of law in a government that calls itself a Christian, but in politics, just as in the Christian faith, the day of truth will come when the works are judged. If you vote in favour of this Vengeance Act, you will have nothing to account for on this day. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of DK, Momentum, MSZP and Dialogue.]]
u2023-06-16-131	Thank you very much, Congressman. I salute my fellow Members. I wish you a good job in Parliament. I give you the floor, and from here on, we will be talking about the pulpit, by Mrs Ágnes Kunhalmi, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2023-06-16-132	Thank you very much. Mr President, Well, I mean, there's still some cheerleading circles, but I think the debate's really starting. He says István Hollik: the opposition lies, civilians lie, trade unions lie. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: He didn't say that! István Hollik: No!]] That's what he said. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I resigned because I felt that we fooled the teachers with this, Zoltán Gloviczki resigned and left you years ago. But today's news is that the Klebelsberg Center accidentally sent Telex a wrong e-mail, where it writes to Zoltán Maruzsa, the premiere of this presentation. [[Szabó Timea applauds.]] that you would be in great difficulty if you always had to tell the whole truth. Do you hear that, Mr. Hollik? Who's lying? [[István Hollik: You!]] If someone asks for it in public interest, then the lie will stick to us, said Zoltán Maruzsa [[Szabó Timea: Alas, alas!]] or wrote it. Mr. Hollik, KDNP, Fidesz! [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Who's lying? Who lies in propaganda? [[Intercoms in the ranks of the governing parties: You! Ferenc Gyurcsány!]] Who was that? You're the Prime Minister who withdrew...
u2023-06-16-133	Excuse me, Congresswoman. With all due respect to Congresswoman Szabó Timea, [[Szabó Timea: Me? Mr. President, I understand I'm not your favorite...]] I don't know if I [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] I'm telling you, don't yell... Don't yell. I also told him, and I also told opposition and pro-government representatives. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Just not so loud. The president's ringing the bell.]] I'll wait for you to calm down, Congresswoman. [[Szabó Timea: I am very calm!]] Don't yell back, Congresswoman, because I'm warning you, and there will be consequences. [[Szabó Timea: Wow!]] Thank you very much. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2023-06-16-134	The government's bureaucratic system is full of lies, government propaganda is full of lies, and their entire government and this whole status law is based on lies, and what they've been doing since 2010, unfortunately, it was the Prime Minister himself who withdrew his voluntary promise to tie teachers' wages to the minimum wage. Well, who cheated the country? ! Did the Prime Minister deceive the teachers, or did the teachers deceive the Prime Minister? Why don't they face that? You can sit up and watch, and I understand that you don't want to look up. They're not gonna face that. [[Bence of Turdai: They are ashamed of themselves!]] I have to tell you, unfortunately, this is a black day for Hungarian public education, a black day for society as a whole, because the system of education is not just a matter for itself, according to us, according to MSZPs, the system of education is primarily a thing that would serve the future generations to advance... Did you say something, Mr. President?
u2023-06-16-135	Here.
u2023-06-16-136	... so that future generations can take a step forward, or, for example, to reduce the chances for all those born under adverse circumstances, but for Fidesz, education is certainly not a professional issue. [[16.50]] Do you remember when you told Zoltán Pokorni that Zoli didn't care about the numbers? It was a clear speech. And then Mr Pokorni basically admitted that the Prime Minister was not interested in education, he considered it a question of power policy. It is no coincidence that there is no Ministry of Education in Hungary, that we are missing a person who is otherwise engaged in education at government meetings. The Prime Minister doesn't care about the numbers, he doesn't care how many functional illiterates he becomes, he doesn't care how many people leave the Hungarian education system essentially without any degree. The Prime Minister doesn't care whether a child born in a complexly disadvantaged area is a dentist or a lawyer. And it can also be seen from the fact that the Prime Minister does not care about the multiplely disadvantaged areas, and as an education, he does not consider these areas as a solution, that 500 children have so far belonged to a school psychologist, a thousand in the Status Act. It also shows that they are not trying to do that, and they may have increased in numbers since 2010, but unfortunately, the number of children who live in multiple disadvantaged areas and need psychologists has also increased. For example, it proves that Viktor Orbán sees this as a policy of power and not as a professional issue, that already in the KRÉTA system, where in public education there is contact with parents, and the school's affairs should be discussed, sovereign debt business has appeared and the government encourages the purchase of sovereign debt. Clearly, the status law is nothing more than the coronation of recent years, the whole nationalization, the whole equatorial book system, the unteachable and unteachable national master plan, the limitation of the right to strike, and, yes, in the status law, the last large social group with the status of civil servants is deprived of this status and, indeed, they are being deprived of their rights. Of course, the government does not dare to say that it sees it as a policy of power, but the government says that it is a professional issue. The government says they want to increase the prestige of teachers. The government says they want to make the field attractive. I ask you how the prestige of the teaching field increases, the career becomes more attractive if you terminate the right to strike or terminate the public employment relationship. Will it make the field attractive, and will more and more people be applying, or will there not be a greater dropout if a teacher can't accept his own pedagogical program? It has nothing to do with the institution's terms of reference either slowly and has less and less to do with its annual work plan. Or, for example, it can be carried over arbitraryly at any time. Or, for example, will the profession be attractive and prestige will be greater if, for example, the National Basics Plan is unteachable and unteachable, or this whole centralization and nationalization, the primary goal of which was to eliminate the differences between school and school? That's what you said in your exposé, isn't it, Mr. Secretary? But it wasn't that everything was getting worse. However, the level of education is now very harsh, and the president of Pokorni, Gloviczki or MTA has said that there is a shortage of teachers and can be denied, but it is still real. Before each school year starts, they're looking for almost 1,500 people on the field. Over the next five to ten years, tens of thousands will retire. How would you like to make up for that? This status law does not provide a solution to this. And the hardest part is, I see that their school district leaders, who are appointed from the center to represent your political, power goals, are always making more money than the teacher who deals with children, by the way. The hardest and outrageous thing is that in one school, say, five thousand forints for six or seven children's reward books. There's money for everything in this government, but isn't there money to reward teachers, raise wages, or reward children? Well, how's that? ! Aren't you ashamed when you stand in front of the school's collective and the teachers? ! We've heard now, it's a fidesz amendment to try to set the mandatory weekly hours in 26 hours. Then I'll ask Gloviczki [[Sic!]] Mr Secretary of State, whether the 32 hours of mandatory replacement will remain. Is it possible to order an unpaid replacement for teachers? Or is it what the status law says they can have teachers working for up to 48 hours? These paragraphs are precisely about, Mr Secretary of State and honourable Members, that they are aware of the lack of education, they are aware of its scale, and they are certainly trying to find a solution to it by overworking and overloading. And here's our favorite part, the pay. I have already mentioned that the Prime Minister had a voluntary promise, saying that a certain projection fund, i.e. from where the teachers' wages are calculated, will be linked to the minimum wage at all times. Do you know how much the wage increase would be now if the Prime Minister hadn't withdrawn his voluntary promise? Almost 100 percent. And indeed, the Prime Minister has broken it, deceiving the entire Hungarian pedagogical society. I would very much like to ask if someone from the government could finally give me an answer: what does wages have to do with Brussels? The area covered by national competence is the area of Hungarian education. The area of national competence must be financed from the Hungarian budget, right? Bence Rétvári said that this money is ours. Well, the Hungarian teachers say that in the area covered by the Hungarian national competence, the Hungarian budget comes with a wage increase. What's it got to do with Brussels? Why are they lying all over the country when Brussels is gonna pay for it? The fact that Brussels, by the way, decides to open up the possibility of Community funding in some way to finance an area of national competence simply does not relieve you of the need to create this resource in the budget. The EFOP Plus is his leg. Their Secretary of State for Finance acknowledged in the budgetary debate that a wage increase would only be set out in the provision, 20% if the money accepted by the Commission was otherwise paid in the EFOP Plus. However, there are tough conditions for payment, my colleagues have already said that the government and Parliament will not unilaterally introduce rules to increase the workload of teachers, to limit existing professional autonomy or to reduce the attractiveness of the profession. I'm sorry, but if there's an x milestone that Brussels connects the money to, the status law is definitely x plus one. You are the ones who are preventing and failing your own career model! It's not a success story, as Rose Hoffmann used to say. The first career model failed, and with the status law, they kill their next career model. Do you know where a career model can be financed in a domestic, national territory? The national budget. I'm sorry, but if you want to get Brussels to finance an area of national competence, next time you're gonna have the National Basics written there? What hypocrisy and deceit this is! [[Continue in 74/2!]] 2022-2026. parliamentary term Budapest, 16 June 2023 Friday 74/2. Number Parliamentary Diary In addition, the government always tells us how much they've worked out. It must be very good to mix the amount of negotiations with the quality of the negotiations. Old trick, apply it to Fidesz all the time. They keep referring to war. The Czechs don't have a war on them? The Czechs have just decided to raise the wages of teachers. Or, for example, Romania: the average wage for teachers is not much, but higher. Across the border, many Hungarian teachers go to work in Romania, because it is more profitable financially than anyone who can and otherwise accept their qualifications. Proud of that? Because I wouldn't be. I must tell you that we, MSZPs and the opposition in general have a democratic image of a country where education is democratic. But here in Hungary we are not talking about a democratic state of service, we are talking about an authoritarian state of power. At a government level, as I mentioned, it is not important for you to be able to raise a child from two to three, from three to four, and to help children born in the poorest areas to move forward, whether they are dentists, lawyers or anything else, to reduce social differences. No! Education is a purely power issue for you, as the Prime Minister and the politicians associated with you keep telling you through their mouthpieces. [[17.00]] I have to say that in your authoritarian system, the Archbishops and the priests were forced to keep the Orbán system going, because it's not about the profession for you. Therefore, the MSZP rejects this whole law, both in detail and in its entirety. For us... and I know that we will have the strength to endure, and once in this country we will implement an education that really serves the interests of Hungary and the interests of Hungarian society, and not the interests of a party, but only the interests of power. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of Jobbik, Dialogue, Momentum and MSZP.]]
u2023-06-16-137	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi. I now give the floor to Mr Ander Balázs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2023-06-16-138	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Status law, Vengeance law, servant law, whatever you may call it, but in the context of education, let us go back to the basics, the fundamental question of the social image of power: periphery, periphery, semiperiphery, colonial model, or civic religion. The former is a sociopathic neoliberal concept that seeks to compete with inexpensiveness, not knowledge. This does not count as the truth of the saying attributed to Széchenyi, which is cynically grinning when he hears that the power of a nation lies in the multitude of educated heads of man. It sells out the bloody sweat, laborious work of its citizens, the fabric of society and the natural values created to the multinational capital ready to sacrifice at any time for profit. You are condemned to be a servant, a freely eviscerated worker. And if an early, hard-working Hungarian worker degrades into biorobots of assembly plants banished to the bottom of global value chains, he becomes sick of the fact that while the seventh skin is skinned off, his salary is not enough for anything, so if he can't make more profit for his farmers as a modern wage slave, he will be kicked off the modern Taigetos without blinking and heartache, that is to say, kicking him off to the existential slaughterhouse, or sending him straight from work to the cemetery. It may not be considered a member of this group, but it does belong to us to remember that 38 percent of Hungarian men working 25-30 percent more hours per year than Germans do not live out the retirement age, can not rest for a minute; they cannot spend more happy retirement years with their family, their grandchildren, because premature health loss and premature death do their job. Our tragically poor health and mortality indicators, according to which, for example, a Hungarian man can expect to spend 11 years less in health than a Swede, faithfully indicate that there is a written figure left in the XIII. The sacredness of Pope Leo in the Rerum novarum of 1891, according to which it is ugly and inhumane to use our fellow man as a means of profit. And if the natives were too stubborn, wanting more and better for themselves, or at least for their children, grandchildren, or perhaps not enough to fill the seats next to the assembly line, they would bring them along, or instead, from a distance of up to ten thousand kilometers, to the poor Filipinos, who, by European standards, would beat miserable wages, with whom they could show those who are ready to strike that they are nix jumpers. The gates were opened, and the members of the government enthusiastically voted in favour of the imported guest workers, as did the Hungarian elite of Transylvania, who were eager to install the Romanian serfs, which, unlike the Hungarian peasants, seemed cheap and obedient, beyond the Carpathians, was the bitter result of short-sightedness. But back to the day! The model of competitiveness offered by the government creates a new feudal society with all its injustices, all its misery and corresponding education. The Prime Minister's advisor, László Parragh himself admitted that Hungary's competitive advantage lies in low wages, and despite the fact that some people are protesting from the Balliberal side, as the competitive paradigm has not just begun. The 13 years in this respect are an integral continuation of the previous eight years. Of course, it can be sarcastic from the pro-government side, but the facts are really stubborn. The figures show that, while the labour cost per hour in Hungary is EUR 10.7 per hour, the EU average is three times this, but even in Slovakia it is one and a half times bigger, so there is so much more for living elsewhere and higher taxes on higher incomes for health care and education, and therefore for the operation of human capital systems. This will also provide funding from national sources for normal educators' wages, and this will be the way in which the sectors for the normal re-production of society are built. How did Professor Csath Magdolna say she couldn't be accused of being left-wing? A country's most important source of competitiveness is a highly knowledgeable, healthy and well-being-satisfied population, which has the opportunity to work in jobs where it can utilize and continuously increase its knowledge and provide a decent standard of living and quality of life for itself and your family. Unfortunately, we are as far away from Mako Jerusalem, even if certain pro-government nobles do not want to face the Hungarian madness, and they do not tell us that they believe it is unthinkable that because of the terrible Hungarian conditions of living, work and wages, and their lack of prospects, many flee from the country; and even if they do, others think that they do so only because of an adventure, and they view the outside as a party, and they live on pot cookies, so to speak, they certainly had to drink a lot of orange brandy. Ladies and gentlemen, Contrary to all this, there is another paradigm, the bourgeois road declared by the community of Jobbik-Conservatives, the idea of normal Hungary [[István Szilárd Németh: Gyurcsányl!]] "Széchenyi's idea, where knowledge, where diligence is valuable, and where it is evidently appreciated by those who produce this knowledge, is the knowledge that the Prime Minister himself said was a gold cover for our country's competitiveness. But is it the value of a new feudal system if the broad foundation of society is composed of a layer that has the relevant knowledge to conduct public debates? Or is the vigilant civil layer that has this knowledge and a material independence that gives it the opportunity to stand up to the power at hand dangerous? Intentionally, not one of the liberal authors of neomarxista merce.hu, but again I would like to quote Magdolna Csath, who said in the book The Economy Is for Man, and not the other way around, that it is politically preferable to be uneducated, because then it is easier to manipulate. Anyone who sees the big picture will be easier to criticize bad politics, understand better what they've done to their country. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, The European Commission's Monitor for Education and Training presents us with disappointing series of data. The deteriorating results speak for themselves. According to surveys, while 17,6 percent of our 15-year-olds were under-reading in 2010, 22.3% were in mathematics and 14.1 percent in science, by 2020, the proportion of under-achievers deteriorated from reading to 25.3%, from mathematics to 25,6 percent, from natural science to 24.1 percent in 2020. In 2010, we performed above the EU average, but already below the EU average in 2020. According to Kunó Klebelsberg, the legendary Minister of Education between the two world wars, the future is based in schools. My fellow members of the Government, I am curious to know what kind of future they intend to build with these results, how will this become a competitive civil Hungary? The knowledge that is needed for the success of the nation is not created by itself. Our deteriorating results may not be independent of the sad fact that there is a growing shortage of teachers, since the pedagogical society has grown old. The vast majority of teachers reach retirement age in a few years or a short decade, and replacements are very limited, since they fail to attract the best young people to this wonderful career and then to keep them there. While more than 4,000 people applied to be lawyers, practically one hand can count how many new chemistry teachers our country will have. And if there will be no chemistry, physics, mathematics, biology and computer science teacher, then there will be no one to teach the engineers and specialists of the future Hungary. Once again, what will become of the dream of a competitive Hungarian economy? We have said this many times: there is no future without a teacher, Fidesz, and let us be so self-critical! without any opposition party or actor. Not without a teacher. [[17.10]] Ladies, gentlemen! According to the Jobbik-Conservatives, the only solution is to finally create a new Klebelsberg turnaround. You know, fellow government officials, you've heard me say this many times: the losing First World War, the terrible Romanian occupation, and the unjust Trianon peace dictator, after the brutal mutilation and dismemberment of our country, Klebelsberg didn't knock in Paris for money in order to turn the issue of domestic education into a success sector. Why do you tie Brussels to resolving the existential problems of the teaching profession that have become unsustainable? Yes, the money they constantly refer to as excuses is not Western charity. But if Horribile Dictu doesn't come, then let the domestic education go to waste, then will the future be lost? Klebelsberg realized that investing in schools was the best possible investment. By the end of its ministerial term, the cultural portfolio had already received 16% of GDP. Right now, half of this seems like an unattainable dream. So let us stay on the ground of reality that can be achieved, and let us look carefully at the surrounding countries. In the Czech Republic, Parliament recently accepted that teachers' wages should be 30 percent above average wages. This would now amount to 757 thousand forints based on the data of KSH in Hungary. On the other hand, for 20 years, a teacher with a university degree has been practicing his profession. The gross salary of the colleague was 442,000 HUF, as the wage-based projection fund is still the minimum wage for 2014 for 13 years! Salary wages and the attitude of the new feudal power towards educators are equally appropriate. If colleagues wish to meet the Axioma of Kásler, which says that a good teacher is not only a teacher but also an example who shows our children how to stand up for themselves and fight for others, then there will be revenge, a servant's law, a short leash. Once again, as the lead speaker of the Jobbik-Conservative Group, I would not confront those on the pro-government side with an opposition statement. It is in the interest of the whole country to educate and educate teachers in the institutions, who feel professionally prepared, feel their job, perform their work successfully, and receive wages for their work that allow them to live an intellectual life, so it is not a year-end evaluation of an opposition organization four years ago. Things have gotten worse since then. Please don't top it. The bill we are discussing now increases the burden of teachers and reduces their freedom; it restricts professional autonomy even more; it does not make the teaching profession attractive and it is bad for children; it does not bring us closer to normal Hungary, so Jobbik-Conservatives cannot accept it. Please allow me to end by reading something that my middle son, the sixth grade Nimrod, told me at Barcs City Teacher's Day, I'm sure it's much nicer than I am: Each child is born with a special inner flame, the flame of wonder and the possibilities of the beginning. This inner light illuminates the way ahead, arouses curiosity and passions. But over time, this flame encounters difficulties, internal and external obstacles, flickers with pressure, and can pass out because of doubts. Although children sometimes stumble, they are never lost as teachers guard their inner flames. Besides the caring family, it is the teachers who are there for all the students, in the midst of the joys and sometimes the sorrows of life. They are the guardians of the flame, who help and guide, who share the flame of learning, which burns brightly in them. These teachers know the child's heart and appreciate all kinds of knowledge. They help you climb higher, get over all the difficulties on the road, so that children can learn and live the way that is best for them. They celebrate success and provide protection in storms so that the guiding light can remain strong, bright, and warm. It's time for a light to fall on them, the guardians of the flame. Let us thank them for their passion and give them recognition for their knowledge, which allows them to be careful guides to the mind and heart! The best way to improve our schools is to pay attention to teachers, voices that protect the inner flame of children. Only they know how to make each flame shine brightly. Appreciate educators for whom all flames matter and who allow all children to shine! This bill [[The president's ringing the bell.]] That's not what this is about. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the lines of Jobbik, Dialogue and MSZP.]]
u2023-06-16-139	Thank you very much, Congressman Ander Balázs. I now give the floor to Dóra Dúró, the lead speaker of the Group of our country, Madam Vice-President.
u2023-06-16-140	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Our Hungarian faction does not support the teaching status law, because it does not guarantee the financial security of teachers, does not give back their professional freedom, does not reduce their current excessive burden, does not give back their rights of discipline, does not guarantee their physical protection, nor is it seen as a guarantee of teacher replacement. It is worth starting from the current situation that if we look at education, and unfortunately this should confront us with a sad picture, because in the current situation and who has the responsibility to do so, I will now put half the teachers over 50 in parentheses. This is what the Hungarian nation has to live on in 2023, and we have to do something together with this situation, and we should improve it by, for example, making the teaching career more attractive for young people. Unfortunately, this bill cannot achieve this, and I will explain in detail why not. Obviously, it is also part of the truth that in pedagogical training, it may be said that the greatest professional error of the last thirty years was that the Bologna system was introduced, which was not during the regency of the Fidesz governments, but before what, contrary to many others, the destruction of the SZDS in education, was otherwise not restored by Fidesz, but the introduction of the Bologna system from the training system was indeed done. And I would like to draw attention to one more thing, because it doesn't matter how much a teacher earns, no matter how much he can deal with children, but there may be little mention that a significant part of their working time in international comparison shouldn't be spent on work that they otherwise have the skills to do, because there is less than half of the OECD averages in Hungary, so teachers do a lot of work that doesn't need pedagogues, so they have less time to deal with children. I do not think that there is a pro-government representative who is more critical of the European Union than I am, and I understand your argument on the pay table, but you have been ruling in Hungary by two thirds for 13 years. And if I say that we have to start from the current situation, then what we have to see is that a college educator has two years of qualification, 17 years of work, looking for a guaranteed minimum wage. And if you can get past that, the two certification procedures, then hold on. The salary increases by HUF 6800 gross. [[17.20]] There's no Brussels to blame. There is no socialist government that could be blamed on after 13 years of two-thirds Fidesz government! [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] Because there has been a period in the history of the Orbán governments when you have spent much more national resources on education, namely 5.4 percent of GDP in 2001 for example. If they'd done that now, I'd be happy. They could finance the increase in teachers' wages from national sources; they should not be asking Brussels for money, which is unacceptable on a principled basis. If you rightly claim the sovereignty of Hungary in the European Union, we also ask that the salary, training, professional freedom and nothing of a Hungarian teacher should depend on what decisions are made in the European Union regarding Hungary. This should be a fundamental issue that should not be influenced by any decision-making body in the European Union at any time, in the event of war, or in the case of Covid closure; this is a matter of national strategy. Our own internal affairs are the condition of those who deal with our children. I know that it is not a Hungarian indicator that we compare teachers' wages to 80% of the average salary, but international organisations do, but why do we accept it? We are also talking about graduates in the case of teachers. What do you mean, they only have to earn 80 percent, and then we're happy with that? ! [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Why are we satisfied? For the past 30 years, I would add that the salary of teachers has never reached 80% of the average salary. You say that if the EU money comes in, it will reach it from 2025. But it's okay: if it only reaches 80 percent, then what other discounts are there that will make this career more attractive; which makes a graduate before a career choice say, "All right, I'm only going to earn 80 percent of the average, but then what kind of discounts are there that I'm going to take on this field? Because there are no young people now who would say that this is attractive to them, and not just because of funding. Although I would like to ask you another very important, fundamental question about funding: if everyone is talking about having a child-centred education system, why does this not appear in salaries? Why don't the people who care most about children make the most of it? And I'm not talking about differentiation, which, of course, you can say: well, you walk, you only know that the director will find that he will be able to shift his salary up by 20 percent to those who work more with the children, because there is no guarantee in this law that the financing background will be adequate; he will have the opportunity, but the financing will be granted, that is still in question, that is the dog's dinner. But why is it clear to everyone that the school district leaders, who are not in daily contact with the children, are earning more, and not the one who goes in with the children every day and spends most of his day with them, more time than, say, the child's own parents? Why don't they earn more, who are more effective with the children? Why is it not an issue that their wages increase to a higher degree? Well, they're the ones who stand up in front of 30 kids every day. In addition to funding, professional issues also need to be discussed. It would have been very good if a 164-page bill on education had been submitted, then, let us say, in the ministry as a principle, that nothing could be worse than the current situation, that we would not have laid down a labour rule for teachers that would put them in a worse position than the current situation, but that is not the case. That's not how it happens! We cannot even say that their labour protection would stagnate, but that they will be put in a worse position in many respects. The monthly salary of the interns has been guaranteed by law, and will now be placed at the level of a decree. The issue of severance pay is quite shocking. It's quite shocking. It's practically extortion, what they do to educators. The fact that a person has a financial disadvantage because he decides at a different time that he wants to leave the system is absolutely amazing, and the admission that he is afraid that teachers will leave the field. They're trying to blackmail them by taking away their severance pay, which, by the way, is what they deserve. That's mean behavior; you can't keep educators there! The numbers will be good, of course, for statistics it will be great, but these teachers will want to leave this system at the first opportunity. I would add that during Covid's time, they did the same thing when, interestingly, left-wing representatives did not raise their voice about the procedures under which unpopulated teachers were subjected to blackmail. And I would also like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to one more point: in the discussions, I also said that we are talking about a sector in which workers or, now, 80 percent of those in special status are growing, and that is why, for example, the job offer for the employment of mothers returning from the child, the Hungarian Movement considers that it does not provide sufficient guarantees that this is attractive and that mothers with small children can feel safe when they return after the birth of the child. So I would very much ask Mr Secretary of State to submit an amendment to this, but even with an amendment from government parties, to provide a greater guarantee in such a sector, where family policy decisions will be taken by the conditions under which these people will have to work. And I would like to conclude on a very topical issue the substance and content of my speech, because I will also address the discussions: this is a question of school violence and even segregation. I would like to mention the case of the Losonczi Square Elementary School, which we have read a lot about in the press these days, and it has been proven once again that the Fidesz district leadership is bent by the pressure of the liberals. What happened at Losonczi Téri Elementary School was that the board wanted to ban children from graduation who repeatedly violated the rules and the human dignity of teachers and even physically threatened these teachers. After that, with the collective support of the board, the director wanted to ban these children from graduation. Then the liberal started to think that this was discrimination, and the school district forced the school principal not to ban these children. Well, where's the subsidiarity? Where is the protection of children's right to education, education, a safe environment? And this case, like a drop in the sea, shows that this problem in the education system hasn't been solved for 30 years, because a school board has said that these children they see every day are undesirable at school graduation, and the school district forcefully pushed them to be there. This system is unfair. The rights of children whose right to education and to a safe environment is guaranteed by the Public Education Act are also guaranteed by the Fundamental Law, but in practice it is not guaranteed in many schools in the country. And by the way, school principals complain that even if they ask for a school warden, the Ministry of the Interior can't provide it. There are schools where they've been waiting for two years to be a school guard, but they still haven't gotten one. There's been a lot of talk about negotiations here. The government side is very vehemently trying to repeat how many times and with whom they have consulted, but it is not the number of negotiations, but the quality, the substance-deserving part of the negotiations that really matters, and in this respect we cannot say much good about the negotiation. [[17 .30]] I would add that our country's movement has taken every opportunity. We have also remained and participated in the opportunity to negotiate for the parties, and we have also made use of the opportunity for experts. As constructive and normal as the parties' negotiations took place, after the left left had withdrawn from it, the opposite was done in consultation with the experts. So I would like to ask myself and the teachers for the tone, the audacity and the cynicism that the staff of the Ministry allowed themselves in the expert consultation. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] I will not quote what terms have been used to detract teachers, nor will I say it now, because we are in the church of the nation, the cynicism of the Ministry's staff in terms of pay bands, but it is quite astonishing that someone can deal with the education sector by allowing himself to do so in the expert consultation sent by opposition parties. Regarding the law, I regret that the Hungarian education system has once again reached a milestone where there could have been a consensus, not necessarily a political consensus, but a professional consensus. The Parliament is negotiating a large-scale bill, but this consensus has not been achieved for one reason or another, this bill is just another of the missed opportunities. Thank you for your attention.
u2023-06-16-141	Thank you very much, Mrs Dóra Dúró, Madam Vice-President. Dear Parliament, The Dialogue Group indicated that two speakers, sharing the 15-minute timeframe, would present the group's position. First, I give the floor to Congressman Bence of Tordai. [[For signal:]] Then Congressman Tamás Mellár, indicates that he wants to speak first, then he wants to speak to him.
u2023-06-16-142	Thank you very much for the floor, and thank you for the flexibility that I can speak first. With regard to the law that has been passed, I think that it has been quite well formulated over the past period to see how miserable, how miserable the whole of Hungarian education and education is. I think it is not very worthwhile to repeat this, so there has been a deterioration of autonomy over the past few years, a deterioration of the autonomy of teachers, students and parents, and, in addition, a significant reduction in the quality of education and a significant lack of education, so there is little room for a perspective on how to get out of it. Compared to this, this law before us, the Status Act, or the opposition, calls it the Vengeance Act, we can call it the Vengeance Act, there is no solution at all. This is not the solution to these problems. This law was only passed to try to deal with the situation in some way with a need for order. We have been here before, and several of my fellow Members have mentioned the extent to which the conciliation was apparent. I would like to add one thing to this: how short it was, because it was said that the negotiations started in March. Well, if someone looks at the Scandinavian countries, where successful educational concepts have been implemented or created, the consultation usually lasted a year and a half, and the conciliation only ended if all stakeholders fully agreed with that concept. Therefore, the agreement of educational institutions, representative organisations, social organisations and opposition parties was also necessary for all opposition parties. Why? Because an educational concept obviously has to remain in force for at least 10-12 years, it should not be tampered with; the result will only come through and come out if it can remain stable. This can only remain stable if there is indeed a very broad, almost overwhelming consensus in this regard. This was certainly missed by the government in connection with this bill. Our fellow Member, István Hollik, said that they would do their best to make a teacher's salary of HUF 800,000. Well, if you can really believe that you are doing everything you can, then it is very simple: all you have to do is go to Minister Mihály Varga and tell him not to have a 3,6 percent share of education as a percentage of GDP, but, as my fellow Member Dóra Dúró said, this has already been 5.4 percent, and that this could be brought up, and then this issue would be resolved. Bence Rétvári said that teachers are in a good position in Hungary today, because the number of hours spent teaching is only 608 hours and the EU average is 680 hours, and the OECD average is 735, so teachers are in a very good position. By comparison, Krisztina Genitsné Tóth explained in detail what it looks like, and in fact 874 hours came out for her, because free care, free substitution, all of this counts, and this is just the 22-hour mandatory hours; here it was said from the fidesz side that they wanted to pick it up for 24 hours, then it will be even bigger. So, there are these kinds of problems, problems, and slides. Then once again, I would like to quote Mr Rétvári, State Secretary, who said this morning that the opposition does not know this whole story, because the opposition has absolutely no concept of what should be done about education, he is just talking and he is cutting and he wants to take advantage of this political situation. Well, I would like to say to you that there has been an education policy proposal for at least a year, which was drawn up by the Education Policy Committee for opposition cooperation last year. The head of this commission was two excellent experts such as István Nahalka and Péter Radó, and the Civil Public Education Platform, which represents 54 organisations, was also involved. I have seen nothing of these things in this draft law, and it is a sad thing because if you really wanted or wanted to achieve a broad social consensus, then it would have been worth dealing with. Here, in the first part, we are talking about an assessment of the situation; one of the elements of the assessment of the situation is where we stand on the issue of educational inequalities. This is Secretary Maruzsa, who said that the family background is becoming increasingly insignificant. Well, I read from this report, and I quote: the data from the national competence measurement clearly show that in 2017, the correlation between the test results and the family background was stronger in the years 6, 8 and 10 than in 2010 in the same grades, and the students' progress between the 6 to 10 grades is increasing in inequality. So somewhere these two things aren't quadging. [[Máté Kanász-Nagy towards István Hollik: Don't you understand? You want a translator or a dictionary?]] Then it is also a very important element in the assessment of the situation, what it actually looks like, how adaptation and adaptability are, both for social change and for technology and labour market changes, and for globalisation and climate change. They have indeed become weaker in recent years; they have not been sufficiently focused on so far in education practice, and, of course, in a concept, they should be based on them very strongly. I would like to highlight only two or three of the proposals. One of the main objectives is to eliminate, prevent and reduce school inequalities in relation to disadvantaged situations independently from school; to reduce education selection and segregation; to extend and improve the effectiveness of general education periods as a further objective; to develop relations between schools and families; to strengthen the socialisation role of education; to meet the growing demand for graduates; to strengthen the needs for adult learning; and last but not least to restore institutional autonomy in education, to develop decision-making societies in education management and education policy, and to create an efficient and intelligent institutional system of governance. [[17.40]] So I think that there is something more to be done for you in this area, and if there really is a need and you can't find it on the Internet, then I would be happy to send you this copy; better late than never. It wouldn't hurt to make some changes in this matter. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2023-06-16-143	Thank you very much, Congressman Tamás Mellar. I give the floor to Congressman Bence of Torda.
u2023-06-16-144	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, I'd just like to talk about one aspect of the Vengeance Act. What I think is most worthwhile is that it is not a professional proposal that can be interpreted or interpreted primarily, but as a power policy product. The machinations of power around the submission of the Vengeance Act show this very well, and the unlucky Secretary Maruzsa's self-received self-received, not leaked, but personally posted, in writing, that they are constantly lying, that they cannot tell the truth, and his only concern is not that they lie about everything about it, but that the lie burns on themselves. I've got some bad news: you've been burned by the lie, and these lies are not going to deceive the competent, affected social groups. Some of the Fidesz voters may be successfully passed, but my bad news is that this reality is not yet being rewritten, but your Vengeance Act will still completely destroy the entire system of public education. But perhaps the best illustration of how much you have put forward this vengeance law on the basis of political considerations and timed it is precisely when we are discussing it. We stand here, sitting here on Friday afternoon, slowly on Friday night, on the last day of graduation, when, by the way, you shut down the whole area so that, for example, people who could say their views as concerned couldn't come into the National Assembly. But the point is, we're discussing this shameful law right now, on graduation day. It's just that I'm trying to put it in a sports language, and I'm not very good at it, but I'm trying to-- so when they kick it up with a slippery outfit, irregularly, with a pair of feet, going to the ankles of the opponent's player, and then when it hits the ground, pretending it's an accident, they're kicking it pretty hard. About this is the vengeful law, and the timing of its submission, this is today's negotiation day, when families want to be more concerned with their graduation children than with their child's future in Kossuth Square. Now I'm gonna switch a little bit to parenting, maybe it'll be more understandable, more personal, more empathetic. I have changed my life very seriously in 2010 and not primarily because you took over the country because it is obviously not leadership or service, and since then the various subsystems of society, including education, have been systematically destroyed. So it wasn't the most important turning point in my life, it was the birth of our first child, and since then there have been four of them, and we've been living very intensively the lives of preschoolers and schoolchildren. I was at a graduation early this afternoon, and my boys just finished kindergarten, and how do I say it? I haven't been an emotional guy in a long time, and I think in this Parliament they see that I'm relatively shock-resistant, so when you come with your inability to desire, we just laugh at you when the kind voters you've misled and pissed off are dealing with death threats and selected insults in writing or even verbally, I ignore you as much as possible. He's not particularly traumatized, just like a mosquito banging or a mosquito bite when they release their propagandaists on us, or when, let's say, their cops break my finger in an eviction. So I don't take these things so personally, but frankly, my children leaving the educational institution they've been going to and entering another's door in September, I've been crying like a man. I think that's how most of us are, and I don't assume a lot of bad things about you, but I know exactly about you, but I don't assume that you don't want your kids, and I even think that you think the same thing about other parents. So it would be good if at least this topic was treated with a little more respect and less political depravity if the families, millions of people, had not ruined today's very elevated day by starting the trial of the Vengeful Law today. Isn't it true that 150,000 teachers, millions of children and their parents are really afraid of Hungary, who today wanted to pay attention to graduation, their children, their grandchildren, compared to this, they put you here, they called an extraordinary meeting just to put the law of revenge on the last day of the school year, graduation, Friday night, perhaps to have as few people as possible come to protest, I don't know what led you here, but that's really such a level to say? plus layer of depravity [[Dr. Zsolt Flame intervenes.]] What is worth noting is worth reflecting on, and it is worth giving our opinion on. I think that this is a topic that does not share Hungarian society according to pro-government and opposition settings, but shares it with those who know it, who care about it, who see what is going on in the education system, because their children and grandchildren go there, they work as teachers or are active in related trades, and there are those who, let's say, are indifferent to the issue of education. Obviously, we are not applying to their goodwill or their activity now, but to the majority of Hungarian society, who do care about the future of their children, the quality of education, and who therefore, if they know in detail this infinitely harmful, but first of all, I say once again, cannot interpret the law of vengeance as a political product, so, this benign, well-intentioned and informed majority, they reject your vindictive campaign against teachers. I ask you very nicely, at least with your own voters. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] a little consultation on what they can expect from them in the future if they destroy education. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2023-06-16-145	Thank you very much, Congressman Bence of Tordai. I give you the floor and you will talk about the pulpit to Mr Matthew Kanász-Nagy, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2023-06-16-146	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I would also like to welcome and welcome those who are currently listening to our broadcast, watching us, the teachers, parents and students who are now following us on a screen in Kossuth Square about what we are talking about. From the Secretary of State, the quote that I think has already become insane is that: "You would be in great difficulty if you always had to tell the whole truth. I do not know whether you have said this or not, however, I would rather listen to the poet and advise everyone to listen to the poet who said that he was telling the truth, not just Attila József. If we look at the truth and what is real, the reality about public education, then I think that Hungarian public education is in a crisis, or at least in a very, very difficult situation. I also say this because I do not think that Hungarian education can fulfil the goals it is destined for, and here I would highlight three very important goals. The first objective is to transfer our common cultural knowledge to the national canon of knowledge to everyone on an equal level. This is about making differences between different types of schools, and students in different types of schools do not have the opportunity to access the same knowledge. Another very important aspect is that obviously the interests of the Hungarian economy must also be served, and the labour market must be met. But from this point of view, if the Hungarian labour market is narrowed down and we become a assembly plant, we become a battery company, then this practically drags Hungarian education with it, and unfortunately makes it dumb, and lowers the quality of Hungarian education to the low value added activities of assembly plants, which is also a serious problem. The third goal that Hungarian education cannot achieve is, in my view, one of the most important, if not the most important, the social goal, the objective of justice, the reduction of existing social inequalities. [[17.50]] I think that when we talk about Hungarian education, we should also talk about the socio-economic context in which Hungarian education exists, in which Hungarian education works, because it cannot be decoupled from it. If Hungarian society is uneven, if the situation of people living in poverty and in extreme poverty is very, very difficult, if the situation of middle-class families, for example, is becoming more difficult because of the inflation crisis, because of the wage crisis, if inequalities are growing, the communities are generally atomised, then education, even this weakened and consciously demented education, has a much, much harder situation, has much harder things to do than otherwise. So I think that this must also be added to what we have to say. If you look at what's happened in the last 13 years, you can't say there were no systemic changes. This education system has been radically changed, radically reformed, of course, in what direction. The system of maintenance has completely changed, the schools have been removed from the local authorities, thus reducing the possibility for the municipalities and municipalities to have their say in this, thus reducing the opportunities of local residents, parents and teachers, as it is obviously much harder to knock on the door of Minister Sándor Pintér, or knocking on your door, Minister of State, knocking on anyone's door in Hungary, like, say, looking for the local body of representatives or local mayors. So here there is also a democratic deficit with this nationalisation, and this is a consequence of the downsizing of the education system. There's been a change in funding. Quite simply, if we look at the financing data for GDP, these have deteriorated over the last decade, we are below 5 percentage points. More than enough resources would be needed to be doubled in order to reach or exceed the EU average. There are also many references to catch-up by government representatives. By the way, I think that in the economic model, when we are in a half-peripheral system and consciously in a half-peripheral system, it is an illusion that we will achieve Austrian standards here at any time. In this economic system, this catching up is an illusion. But it is certainly an illusion when we spend less on education than the countries we want to reach. A country who spends less on education than a country that he wants to catch will never catch it. They cannot show me a country or group of countries who have made any progress or progress over the last 100 to 150 years without drastically increasing their spending on education, whether we are talking about Far Eastern countries or whether we are talking about Scandinavian countries or Western European countries. Not only did the funding change, but Hungarian education is permanently underfunded, but they want to define everything with nationalisation and centralization, the curriculum has been completely rewritten, they think that students are equals, and everyone needs to be taught the same equal plan, with the same uniform methods. It's just the thing, and it's a good thing that we're different, we need a lot of different methods; someone's a little slower, someone's a little faster, everybody's got a different method of achieving the same high level that should be targeted otherwise. This straightening, this debauchery for textbooks and the textbook market is also absolutely true. The responsibility lies entirely with the government, entirely with the Minister, and entirely with you, Mr Secretary of State, because you, too, have everything that is available to a government: a two-thirds majority, full supervision of budgetary and European Union resources, the full possibilities of regulation. Where the Hungarian education has come, you have achieved it, you can't point fingers at anyone, you can't point fingers at Brussels, you can't point fingers at the Hungarian opposition, they're excuses, you created this situation in 13 years. If we look at the various crisis symptoms, I think it is a crisis symptom that there is no uniform education management and that the management of education in general belongs to the Ministry of the Interior. Imagine the government meeting where ministers are, and there is no dedicated minister for health care, education, social benefits, work affairs, and when there is a dispute, these ministers, because they do not exist, cannot even speak out one by one to lobby for their own territory, to provide additional resources for my territory, to give an increase in the wages of teachers, to raise the wages of social workers, and so on. Thus, the fact that a minister has the responsibility of all areas in itself undermines the possibilities of advocacy. Such a crisis is the result of the PISA. The Secretary of State also referred to the PISA results. The fact is that they have deteriorated in a tendency since 2000 and 2003 respectively. The worst situation was indeed in 2015 for all three major areas: text understanding, mathematics, science. Now, compared to this historic low point, looking at the results of the last full processed measurement, there is indeed a slight improvement in 2018, but between 2008 and 2018, there are significant deteriorations in this decade. Earlier in these three major sectors we achieved 503, 490, 482 points, the same results 10 years later: 481, 481, 476 in 2018. It is not true that the indicator relating to the context of the social situation would have improved. Thus, the OECD reports say that the family situation in Hungary is the most determined of who comes from, the progress and opportunities of students. This is why it is unfair to live in Hungary, so the Hungarian education system is unfair, because who comes from where, whose parents are, largely determines who will become what, and Hungarian education will not only reduce these inequalities, which is his job, and it can be called upon to reduce this relationship, even to increase it. Now, this is a very, very serious mistake and a problem of education for which full education management can be held responsible. But let's move on to the employment situation of teachers, which we've talked a lot about over the past few years. Please point out to the European Union, Brussels, that Brussels must provide teachers' wages. Well, will they also point to Brussels next year when the payment of the family allowance is on the agenda? Or when Hungarian pensions should be paid? Or when the question is, can buses, trams and trains start in the morning? Will we expect that from the European Union? It's obviously impossible. In Hungarian education, the wages of Hungarian teachers must be guaranteed by the Hungarian budget. This has always been the case in the last 150 years, and it is completely nonsense that you have now figured out that this question would depend on the European Union. Says the otherwise delicate government. What if it's not an addictive condition that we can't pay the Hungarian teachers' wages? And then I'd like to move to the status law on how this is dealing with this situation and this set of problems and crises, and I'd like to go through specific points. It is a very serious thing to eliminate the status of civil servant in itself. The law on civil servants leads to two ways. One of them is the slave law, and here you have to think of staff directly assisting education, who are somehow always forgotten, somehow always separated from educators. They don't get a raise, they don't count, even though we're talking about a ten thousand group, without them Hungarian education wouldn't work, yet they're forgotten in a situation worse than teachers. But there won't be much progress for teachers either. Their move is within the framework of the Vengeance Act. I will say it openly: this law of vengeance has been created because, in recent times, teachers, students and parents have been very brave, taking on any verbal retortion from your media, and other retortions from the district, on the part of the government, taking on these and defying them, they have stood up for their right, for their freedom, for their autonomy. Hats off to them and respect them! [[18.00]] There are different circles of autonomy and freedom. Whether we look at the directors or look at the faculty or look at teachers from a labour law point of view, we are talking about virtually backwards from the point of view of freedom, opportunities and rights of teaching. There is a further increase in the participation of the school districts, the possibility of approval, but perhaps one of the most dramatic changes is being made by the school principals. Well, what prestige, nymphus the school principals used to have, and this nimbus, this prestige, is based on their freedom, their latitude, their responsibility, on the fact that they could make a responsible decision earlier, who they would hire, whom they would appreciate, how they would straighten out their progress on the faculty. Well, what's happening right now is a hundred percent of everything is tied up by school principals. Technically, they won't have a license without permission from the district, but the same is true in the case of the district, and the same is true in the case of teachers. A number of points could be highlighted, administrative changes such as teachers being re-mandable, or the overtime and extra work they are expected from them, right? It is simply not said here that the lack of capacity you have created because what has happened in the last 13 years is the impression of us in the lack of a teacher, but the same is the case in the lack of a doctor, in the absence of a social worker in the labour market, which means that they do not expect to attract an extra pedagogue. Well, how would you expect us to... look at the admissions results? One or two or three students apply to the various teaching courses and teaching courses. Well, who's gonna teach us that? But because they don't expect that, so they want to solve the problem with the extra burden and overload of the existing ones, then they run everyone over, right, and everyone is being worked over, but this situation will cause the teachers to get even worse, even less attractive, and these problems will accumulate even more. To sum up, therefore, this status law does not address the crisis symptoms of education at all, but that is not the purpose of this. This has a political purpose, an example they want to make, they want to say, and not only to teachers, but also to everyone else, who raises his voice, who dares to protest. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That's the kind of punishment you can expect. Thank you very much for the floor. We will not support this law, and I urge everyone to object to it by all legal means. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2023-06-16-147	Thank you, Mr Matthew Kanász-Nagy, for your speech. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing nationalities, so I give the floor to the Slovenian ethnic advocate Erika Kissné Köles, who presents the first sentences of his speech in the language of nationality and then translates them into Hungarian. You have the floor.
u2023-06-16-148	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Spoštovani gospod predsednik, gospod državni secretar! Gospe Poslanke in gospodje Poslanci! Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The provisions on the career of teachers, one of the most important social groups in Hungarian society, have been laid down in T-4255. by bill No. 1 to this House. We all know that the functioning of teachers and through them public education institutions is one of the most important activities for our future. We know from Nelson Mandela that education is the most powerful weapon you can use to change the world. The activity of the educator is one of the most beautiful professions, the role of the kindergarten teacher, teacher and teacher is vital for the development of our children. This is why the professional respect, material and moral recognition of the persons listed above is of particular importance for all actors in society and for the management of the country. The new bill on teachers' careers contains a number of new elements compared to previous legislation and practice. There has also been a relatively long social and professional consultation on the draft legislation before Parliament and on the current issues concerning public education. A number of questions have been raised by teachers, parents, and even students, which will be answered with a credible answer after the adoption of the bill on the new career of teachers and its practical implementation in public education. For the future of nationalities living in Hungary, the current state of public education, the prestige of teachers, is as important as any Hungarian citizen. CLXXIX of 2011 on the right and self-determination of nationalities living in Hungary to education in the mother tongue. The law provides for details. The law on the rights of nationalities sets out in particular the different forms of national education and when it is mandatory for the maintainer and when it is possible to organise national education. National authorities as institutional guardians play an important role in the self-government of national education. In Hungary, there are some 1,500 institutions in which ethnic education and education are conducted in one of the forms of education provided under the law, i.e. in the form of native language, bilingual language or ethnic language, or in the form of complementary ethnic education. The bill before us sets out new rules on the relationship between public education workers, puts performance first rather than age and service time, and introduces new types of employment regulation ensuring differentiation in pay. This is why the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities has asked for the discussion of the bill as a national agenda. As a committee related to the debate, our Committee at its meeting on 12 June 2023 established its opinion on the bill as a whole, which is presented to the House as the rapporteur invited by the Committee. National minority organisations were also involved in the social debate of the draft law on the new pedagogical career, so they had the opportunity to consult with the Minister of State and his colleagues on the content related to the nationalities of the Association of National Governments, but also with regard to the content of the bill. The bill, 58 of which includes 34 changes in the field of public education, was formulated by the representatives and leaders of the national minority communities, national minority self-governments, teachers active in ethnic education in connection with the introduction of performance-based wage arrangements, and was expressed as a concern by the head of the institution to decide on the wage classification in one person. [[Sic!]] Our Commission sincerely believes that the heads of institutions appointed with the agreement of national minority organisations and local authorities are capable of carrying out an objective assessment of the performance of workers in terms of their professional and managerial quality and that the salary of workers is determined on the basis of their true performance. In the new wage system to be introduced, the five grades and the pay bands assigned to them continue to allow for a realistic classification of professional skills and work experience, with the possibility of further appropriate pay from benchmarking. Today, the pedagogical track is less attractive. At the initiative of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, a number of measures have taken in recent years, with the support of the government, to strengthen the training of ethnic teachers and the wages of those who undertake work in ethnic public education institutions. [[18.10]] The detailed six years-long educational scholarship programme, which has been in effect for six years, is a good opportunity to encourage young ethnicity teachers to choose a minority educator's career. This, in addition to significant financial support for those involved in the education of nationalities, provides a kind of assurance that the number of teachers will be normalized. Our Commission expects the draft legislation to turn the ideas of those who want to leave the teaching career in a positive direction, and as a result of the changes to be introduced, all sections of society may face a change that represents an expansion of the number of people present as workers in the general education of nationality and society as a whole. Through these changes, we expect the moral and financial prestige of teachers to put our kindergartens and schools in a favourable and not disadvantageous position. Following the line of thought we have just started, it is a significant positive shift, as we understand it, in the past years, to settle the nationality bonus for ethnic educators. The draft law before us sets out new lanes for the award of the nationality bonus. During our previous discussion, we received the encouraging answer on this issue that the amount of the national minority allowance will not decrease, but only the classification is adapted to the teachers' salaries to be raised, which justifies the change in the margins for the allowances. We respectfully ask that the bonus scheme for the remuneration of extra work resulting from the existence of nationality should continue to be available for those who work in education and training in nationality institutions. The bill clarifies the elimination of compulsory pedagogical self-assessment, supervision and compulsory qualification. We hope that the benchmark-based wage system and the differentiation within the pay bands will not give greater emphasis to spectacular performance than the pedagogical work in classrooms. Teachers can also get points by organising programmes outside the classroom. Addressing and resolving teaching problems in the classroom, the development of students in the classroom may be less spectacular, difficult to measure and judge for external viewers; therefore, for example, a teacher dealing with more but less talented children, who moves enormous energies to develop those entrusted to him, may be at a disadvantage in the assessment of performance. The aim, however, should be to ensure that the material appreciation of teachers of classroom communities requiring much more work and education in the course of teaching should be equal to that of those performing spectacular activities in a positive sense. Several are concerned about the inclusion of the results of the competence measurements, as they say that if and if children are pre-prepared for these surveys, or if the less performing pupils stay away from competence measurement, there is no guarantee that a realistic picture can be drawn. In the event of the adoption of the bill before us, the basic wages of teachers operating in one of the so-called beneficiary and catching-up settlements or working in a higher proportion of children with multiple disadvantages may be 20 percent higher than the average. That's very welcome. We also hope that, among the allowances previously introduced, the classification of the professional sectoral allowance on the established lease may not adversely affect any teacher. The extension of the Jubilee Prize applies to all teachers, regardless of the type of school he used to work in. The moral, professional and material appreciation of teachers leaves something to be desired at present. Overburdening leads to frustration, burnout. This change cannot be delayed by real recognition of the work of teachers. It should not be achieved that further conflicts between teachers and educators with the performance assessment system destroy the work that should be clearly about the child. We know that the teacher is the heart of education, as well as the ability to chop wood without love, without love to form bricks, but without love to treat children. The Committee of Hungarian Nationalities kindly asks the decision-makers to allow balanced, harmonious work to be carried out in our public education institutions, with healthy, loving, caring and maximum professional knowledge teachers enjoying professional freedom, which can be expected from a significant improvement in the situation of teachers. This is our future. Hvala za posornost! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2023-06-16-149	Thank you very much for Erika Kissné Köles' voice as a minority speaker. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. In the order of the first Congressman Róbert Hondas, Jobbik.
u2023-06-16-150	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Secretary of State, you promised to tie the teachers' wages to the minimum wage at all times, but the problem is that you're about 9 to 10 years behind. If they hadn't done so, it would mean that the current system and the current problem wouldn't have developed, since the pay of teachers would now be around 85-90 percent higher than the current one. They would normally be where they are, say, in the Czech Republic, where 795 thousand or so are held in Romania; they say in Romania, after all, what happened in Romania was that, in addition to 10 percent inflation, the government gave a 25 percent wage increase to the pedagogical society. We can also talk about Germany, where the average salary of teachers is 1.4 million forints. In these countries, teachers are valued, teachers are appreciated, because they see the meaning, and they know it's important, because they build it, they teach the future. The purpose of education, Mr. Secretary, is the future. And now both education and the future are in danger. Our teachers and educators are running out, and then the question is: who will teach our children? And that's what all parents who have children are afraid of. What we need is an education system that looks at people and looks at people who are involved and who work in them, and where teachers are fairly paid, where students are not anxious, and the XXI. The education system is created in the world of the century, and children are prepared for it. Hungarian children are the future of Hungary and Europe, and their teachers and teachers shape the future of all of them. They deserve it, they deserve it to the fullest extent. It's up to you. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2023-06-16-151	Thank you very much, Congressman Róbert Dudás. Mr László Pósán Fidesz has the floor for two minutes.
u2023-06-16-152	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to ask you that the very specific interpretation of the term "Vengeance Act"... when there were 58 subjects, 34 of which the government accepted the proposals that came up during the negotiations, that is almost 60 percent. I mean, that's revenge, let's be honest, it's kind of steep. And let me tell you one thing: everyone here has said from the opposition that they will not support this law, and you are saying virtually no to the extra freedom of teachers for 50 days, to the extra leave, to the pay, to the guaranteed salary, to the Jubilee Prize; they say no to the inclusion of the professional allowance; they say no to the 20 percent increase in the bonus for those working with disadvantaged students. And they're saying that what's now was better. Everyone, of course, has a soul on it. [[18.20]] As regards the examples: in the case of Romania, it would be good to add that the education system following a French model, there are indeed management, there are teacher qualification exams, there is school supervision; there is no right to strike, among other things, in Germany. So they all need to be put together when we talk about the situation of teachers. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-16-153	Thank you very much, Congressman László Pósán. The next two-minute comment is István Hollik, Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2023-06-16-154	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, In a number of cases here in the debate, you criticized the discussion, saying that these were not real negotiations. As my colleague Pósán said here: 58 topics, 34 changes. But let's say two changes that are meaningful and significant, where, by the way, the government had a position, but still listened to professional organisations and changed its position. For example, the question of redirection. The original proposal included the possibility of redirecting teachers within the district. But the organizations, the trade unions, the interest representatives said that this would be too far away, so let the government choose a smaller territorial unit. This has been agreed by the government, and now, in the current proposal, teachers can only be redirected within walks. Here's the question of resignation, resignation and probation. By the way, in the interest of the children, the government's original proposal was to make it six months, since it is in the child's interest to be taught by a teacher in a semester. But the trade unions said that they should be both resignations, resignations and probations for three months. The government has taken this and this is what is in the proposal. So the thing is, again, it shows that you're lying, you're not telling the truth when you say that there was no real negotiation here. And, uh, you probably forget to tell those who are here in front of Parliament what kind of negotiations you had when you were ruling. I'd like to quote Gergely Harvesto. He said when they were ruling, the demonstration is not a good answer to the problems, and the wallet is not dissuaded by the original intention of the demonstration. Be kind when you leave, inform the protestors that you are taking professional discussions so seriously, by the way. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-16-155	Thank you very much, Congressman István Hollik. The next two-minute comment is Mr Balázs Barkóczi, DK.
u2023-06-16-156	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Hollik, let's see who's lying. You said in your keynote speech that, in the same proportion as left-wing governments, no one reduced the wages of teachers. What, on the other hand, is the truth, Congressman? In 2002 the basic wage was 42 700 HUF, in 2010, when you took over government to overthrow public education, 122 thousand HUF. That's a 166 percent increase, my fellow Member, with the 13th month's wage being cut, which, if it hurts so much, why hasn't it been rebuilt in 13 years? Then they said we fired teachers. It's not like that. It's a lie again. We didn't fire anyone. We allowed them to retire at a reduced rate. And you know why? Because the number of children has decreased, as you have decreased from last year to this year by 2.7 percent. 88,000 children were born last year, never so little in the history of Hungarian statistics. They say there's a settlement. In December 2022, the Civil Public Education Platform sent its proposals, and has not responded to them to this day. Before the creation of the draft law, they did not even think about sitting down with professional organisations, sending out the draft legislation to professional organisations, and there was no prior consultation on the concept. What about redirecting within walking distance? Will you bear the extra burden, Congressman? Teachers from the little salary you refuse to raise because you point to Brussels? [[Intercoms. The president's ringing the bell.]] And you're coming with the resignation, Congressman? You're about to take away the severance pay for teachers who are going to quit because of the Status Act. So don't lie to us. Tell them that Mrs. Málcsi was very offended at the time in 3rd C, and that's why they want to take revenge on the whole educator society. Stop saying that like it's a good thing for teachers. Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2023-06-16-157	Thank you, Congressman Balázs Barkóczi. I give the floor to Congressman Endre Tóth for two minutes, Momentum.
u2023-06-16-158	Thank you very much for the floor. Well, let's see what's on the table. There are 16,000 teachers missing from the system. I know you're debating this data, but you're not telling me anything else instead, and when I asked the Klebelsberg Center, in the form of a public interest data request, that, come on, tell me how many missing statuses there are, they dared to write down to me that they didn't keep it on record, because they work in task-based human resources management. Then I would ask the Secretary of State to explain the number of missing statuses according to official government data in this system. After all, we can agree because the field experience shows that the number of teachers in schools is running very low, and it is becoming more and more difficult to fill an empty job. Every school I've visited in the past has been told to me by the head of the institution. And in this situation, when there is a growing shortage of teachers, there is no way to do anything at all that undermines their employees' rights at one point. After all, if there is a shortage of skills, there is a growing shortage of teachers, then a responsible government should strive to attract as many young people as possible to the field, bringing as many careers as possible back on track. But that is not what we see, because they are making a law that contains a lot of negative elements, and it is damaging and damaging workers' rights. Relocation, amendment of severance rules, reduction of professional autonomy with regard to the adoption of the pedagogical programme has been said and could be added. And I also think it is important to point out that, in order to have a comprehensive consultation, this is quite a slide, let us just think about the fact that there was a social consultation. A lot of people have submitted written suggestions, and you would have had a dog's duty to respond to them, but you didn't. I myself submitted such a proposal with a test character, and I didn't get any answer to that. So I would like to ask what this discussion was like, where the proposals received were not responded in any way. [[A rare applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2023-06-16-159	Dear Parliament, Gergely Harvesto applied in order of business. I'm asking you, personal involvement? [[Gergely Harvesto: Yes.]] Then I will read the house rule: such a speech may take place after a speech outside the agenda or in a two-minute period at the end of the item on the agenda. Thank you very much. [[Gergely Harvesto: I'll wait.]] Dear Parliament, I can't say anything to Róbert Zsigo, because the circle is over. So we're coming up with a Fidesz Congresswoman Mary Kállai.
u2023-06-16-160	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I'd like to reflect on some of the things I've just said, and I can't miss one. I don't know where the world is in the competitive sphere, for example, that someone quits and gets a severance pay; parentheses start, parentheses closed. [[Gergely Arató: There are many places like this in the competition sphere!]] There were many, many stories that sounded good, but it was a very serious slide, and there is a very serious danger that, by taking a sentence out, there is a very serious reason for misdirection. But let us return, and I would have liked to have followed the thoughts of the woman who spoke for nationality, because if we had learned the draft law so deeply, in fact, then we could see that if we have followed the way that has led us here in the last few weeks and months, then we must very seriously agree with the text of the draft law. In order to express the social appreciation of those employed in public education, the draft law before us regulates the relationship between those employed in the system. This is the main message of the law. I believe that this is very timely and that everyone involved is interested in this. So you can talk about anything from the National Basics Plan to anything, but the main purpose of this law is to re-regulate with the experiences used, the challenges and tasks of life, and we are all interested in that. It may not be good for everyone to hear this equally, but very serious, broad consultation has preceded this bill in both qualitative and quantitative terms. Let us first look at the quantitative aspect. If we look at the fact that I do not read to all stakeholders from 2 March, but we have to say that during the social consultation there have been 20 meetings with interest representatives, professional organisations, the processing of 1500 opinions, I think it is a serious challenge. And it is also a clear fact that the discussions were attended by the teachers' unions, the National Teachers' Faculty, the Round Table on Public Education Strategy, the National Council on Public Education, the National Student Council and the most important state and church supporters. [[18.30]] We also had the opportunity to comment. He considered the proposal by the Academy of Arts, the organisation of training schools maintained by higher education institutions, the National Association of Large Families, the National Youth Council, the National Association of Municipal Local Governments, the Association of Citys with County Rights, and I probably didn't say all of it. However, the most important thing is indeed the quality indicator that my fellow Member Pósán recalled. As a result of the discussions, the regulatory content of the draft law covering 58 subjects has changed in 34 areas. I also believe that this is appropriate for quality consultation. This song speaks for itself. Thank you to the Ministry for the wider involvement and thanks to all those who have otherwise made a constructive proposal. The spirit of the law is in line with this round of negotiations, since broad thinking can also be seen in the law. That is why it is very sad that a small but loud group in a professional order can claim a multitude of unreal things for political gain; in the last few weeks, I think that we have unfortunately seen and seen this in various press and social media organisations on several occasions. However, it was very important that, as a result of the false announcement, Minister also gave parliamentary parties the opportunity to negotiate in advance, and it was really clear that we can see or know who was there that they did not really go to conciliation, instead of making substantive proposals, provocative statements. However, with regard to the number of experts, three out of seven guests left. I believe that this draft law is certainly based on a broad consultation, and I think that, obviously, the Parliament's hall is not meant to go through each item, but it can be justified for each one. I respectfully thank you, Honourable Parliament, for educators, schools and workshops who do their work with honor, because I think they are the majority. I also think that it would be a very serious point of agreement in the entire Parliament that this bill serves all the actors in the broadest interpretation of the school. I consider it very important that a type of relationship, which is well adapted to the sectoral characteristics of public education, is established, the employment relationship in public education, which is extended, i.e., regardless of its maintenance, to provide a framework for employment for teachers and related employees in a law, and does not need to be reviewed, summarized in a law, uses the experience so far, and designates a clear career. The aim of the law is to renew the employment standard for public education workers, to ensure wage increases in several stages and to ensure a consistent application of performance-based differentiation, and to increase the attractiveness of the pedagogical career by means of solutions seeking flexibility in employment. Fidesz-KDNP is committed to a significant wage increase for teachers. The general justification of the draft law outlines the link between the EU resource, the salary increase, the pay of start-ups and the extra benefits of teachers working with disadvantaged children. I thank you once again with respect for the work of schools, the work of school workers, the work of school leaders, the work of school district managers. There are a significant majority of schools where students, teachers, families, and local communities, together with the maintainer, have achieved significant results, real workshops for many years. They radiate to their surroundings, their role in the local community, far from ending in the walls of the school. I am convinced that the draft law before us, by rethinking and changing a number of elements, will also serve a great deal to further develop these professional strengths. If the school, as a conscious organization, is able to develop continuously, the logic of the goal-process-task-results allows the recognition and highlight of values, results. The possibility of differentiated pay also helps. Of course, this requires leadership with a strong mission, leadership with strong professional leadership skills, and in such a context a pedagogical performance can also be achieved, and most importantly, it also serves the interests of children and families. The conscious pedagogical impact system, the freedom and wealth of method selection make schools real workshops. I could stop here with the justification, but I would like to highlight some of the elements. The introduction of a new performance-based wage system is a very important element of the bill. We have heard today that 74 percent of teachers agree that workers' salaries should be differentiated on the basis of performance. That's how it is in the competitive sphere. The new wage system, as we read, retains the five stages of the promotion system, but only assigns wage bands, within which the employer can determine the wages based on experience, benchmarking and other professional aspects. This is of great importance for attracting young people into the field, since senility, so age, will not be decisive. Performance is the determining factor. The new wage structure will obviously be more attractive. I would just like to highlight two examples, and I think that we all know the draft law. For example, the teacher in I. runs from HUF 410 thousand to HUF 1 million 65 thousand, with the master from 520,000 to 1 million 365. I think that everyone's very important need is to assess the effectiveness of their work. A good evaluation system generally recognises better performance, encourages better performance, strengthens outstanding work, strengthens the given professional community and is decisive for school culture. And then we ask ourselves, what's wrong with that? Obviously, in a fair benchmarking process, everyone can only improve. We have heard from the Secretary of State: the device system is being tested, it will be possible to get to know and learn before the live mode. First, the employer determines salaries from September 2025 on the basis of the performance assessment. I believe that there has been such a thing in schools, I also think and most seriously say that there is one in the real good workshops today, because it is a very, very important question to know how I work, to know how we have achieved our particular goal and how we have achieved it. The introduction of a performance assessment within the institution will also reduce administration, the compulsory self-assessment of teachers, teacher supervision and certification will cease. The qualification shall remain binding only for trainees. Overall, this legislation itself reduces administration, simplifies, improves the KRÉTA system, strengthens the use of digitalisation and the customer gate. In addition, the draft law contains a number of elements that we have heard today, in addition to the type of legal relationship, the classification and the salary system, it precisely defines work and rest periods, director's mandates, disciplinary proceedings, sectoral interest reconciliation forums. I believe that, if we read it carefully, we can say, overall, that it marks a clear career and supports the demanding, child-centred educational work. Dear Parliament, Public education is one of the foundations for the future and prosperity of the Hungarian nation, providing the public service to be provided by the state, while, of course, non-state actors are also involved. Obviously, I say that it is a point of agreement between us that, through the upbringing of the future generation, they have a direct and powerful impact on the identity of Hungarian young people, their knowledge of subjects and cultures, their ability to apply, and the development of their abilities. It's not an easy time. In the decades ahead, with economic and social challenges, it is also particularly important that there are a sufficient number of teachers available and that the community is enriched with well-prepared teachers capable of good quality work. To this end, the main objective of this bill is indeed to establish a self-employed system of professions for teachers working in public education institutions and workers directly assisting in educational work, which eliminates the current mixed relationship. We can see that the negotiations are ongoing. I will join the lead speaker and my fellow Member from KDNP: the Fidesz faction will, of course, support and work on fixing the hours and setting the fixed 24 hours. There are many different ways to approach this bill. Dear Parliament, I trust, let alone trust, that by adopting the bill, time will prove the right thing to do. Based on this, I respectfully ask all my fellow Members to adopt this bill at the time. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[18.40]]
u2023-06-16-161	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Kállai. The next speaker, Mrs Andrea Hegedüs, is a representative of DK.
u2023-06-16-162	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Mr. Secretary. This speech will be personal. I trust that if you have no reason to be convinced by trade unions, professional organisations, professional movements, teachers, teachers, students, parents, grandparents, perhaps their consciences, their hearts will still speak. I'm a teacher, proud, with a straight spine, with a raised head. I've always prepared for this track. For the last three decades, I've never thought of abandoning my calling. It always got worse and worse, but I stayed. They tried to make me impossible, demoted, humiliated me, but I stayed, and I always got back on my feet because I was always looking at my students, my class, and not the orange principal. I was always prepared for my classes. I've spent a lot of nights or weekends to create a fantasy, experience- and tool-rich watch. Over the past ten years, I've worked out 250 digital lessons to make it more interesting and easy to learn a historical material. Preparing such a digital lesson, I'll just take five to six hours to remember. All of this was not a sacrifice because it was not a sacrifice for children, for young people. With my salary, I bought my students a lot of notebooks, pencils, eraser rubbers, stickers, display equipment, room decorations, rhythmic instruments, unspeakable hair! When I taught underprivileged or cumulative underprivileged children, how many little gloves, shoes, warm clothes, hats I took to school and secretly gave them to a student so that no one else could see his excruciating little life. I have achieved discipline, order, silence with proper motivation, humanity, not intimidation, threats. This is your gun range. The goal at the end of the class was to say a sentence from a student's mouth that was very good and waiting for the next class. As humans, I looked upon them as fellow humans, so that when they grew up and stepped out of the school gates, they would be happy to remember the years they spent there. Can they even experience what it's like to stand on a cathedral and do spiritual work all day? Is the curriculum interesting, patient, even tired, energetically delivered? Smiling at the threshold of the classroom, even when the brain calls the body to rest with a lot of speech, strained substitutions, and often half an apple in the stomach? The day's not over. Returning home, family tasks, chores, then administration, repair of the paper, portfolio writing to qualify, often slipped into the night. The same memories or similar cases can be listed by a colleague on strike and out in front of the building, who, because of the situation you have created, disobeys civilly, who has reached the level that he can no longer stand and deposit his resignation, or is no longer on the field. Those who harm us, teachers and say that they are at home at noon, tell them that from 7:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. at least. Today they replace and work overtime for two people because of the leavers, those who retire, those who don't show up on the field, all for free and in social work. A newly retired Hungarian specialist said just recently that because of the many non-specialized replacements, I didn't even know at the end what degree I had actually completed because he replaced more mathematics, physics, chemistry than he did Hungarian lessons. Well, it's a shame that today's education is here. The government is also on this path, however, and they do not know what they are capable of, most of all, because they can lead education by a doctor, pastor and policeman. The only difference is that while this chaotic situation on the teaching field developed because there is no teacher, there is no shortage of staff in the fidesz Christian government. There's plenty of them, and they can't find the right way, and they're long gone. Now I'm asking you to put your hands on your hearts. Most Hungarian families don't send their children to private schools. Until 2013, I have always encouraged students to have a teaching career among many occupations, and to choose freely to study as kindergarten educators, teachers, teachers, teachers, because this profession is beautiful. I've been through the ranks of the field. In fact, in order to be able to express experiential criticism, I also completed the degrees of the fidesz career model from Ped I. to the master educator. Shame! Your shame is that with their 30-60-hour course of graduate work over this period, all they've achieved is to make teachers work and share them unnecessarily. After these Fidesz courses, our wages increased by 20-80 thousand forints. I've been through this personally, and I'm telling you this as a personal experience. After the first year, Fidesz, Rózsa Hoffmann, Zoltán Balog, Judit Czunyiné Bertalan, Miklós Kásler knew that it was a mistake to introduce the system. The majority of teachers were waiting for the government to finally see that it had to be abolished. But no, instead, they were just smearing it, but they didn't get it out. They've switched to another, even worse, career model, which is right here in front of us. And the educational crisis is being dealt with with with punishment. If I were teaching now, I'd take a deep breath and consider depositing my resignation because the students would already know that I'm doing this for them. You're blabbing that resistance educators are robbing students of knowledge. Please, that's not true. They're sitting on the other side of the horse. On the contrary, a teacher who takes the risk doesn't know what that means, and you go back to Fidesz, he's a brave man, and he's risking for the future. It shows young people that they must not lay low, stand up for what is right, face up to the power that has lost touch with reality. I don't know when the Members of Parliament sitting here who have a teaching degree last taught. It hurts and hits me in the heart when they tell me not to go protest because I'm a politician. Fortunately, today has changed. Again, I'm a teacher. I didn't replace teaching with politics, I'm politicalizing for teaching. Now my colleagues are outside, gathering in front of the country's house, and some of them voted for you. You have hoped that education will be better, that you will have a better, more hopeful, more predictable future. They were disappointed. The successful educational centralization is a huge failure. They're building, speculating, blackmailing the educator with their students. You Pharisees, because they tell you to teach for the children, look at them, and teach even on the threshold of hunger, for so much wages. In the meantime, what are the Fidesz guys looking at? Selfish growth and power. They rule and they don't run a country. Do you know why all teachers don't show up outside? I'll tell you. That's because they're afraid of retaliation, or they're afraid of their position as a Fidesz linker. Many of you are former teachers, so do not look down on their former colleagues like Katalin Novák, but do it for them, be proud of them, because you are the reason why they draw the yoke imposed on them by Fidesz. Your tools are assault, tear gas, revenge laws, withdrawals, withdrawals, extortion. If an educator, a teacher, were to use this method against students, he'd be out of the field a long time ago. These tools are not motivators for students or teachers, on the contrary. I don't know if you've heard this, but there's a rumor that there's only one solution: a lock on the schools. Teachers and students will not enter the institutions until the power that is not for them comes to their senses. If this Vengeance Act is voted by force, it will have to be done in September. We, educators, did not swear to babysit, but to education and education. [[18.50]] You are hermetically, using their power, by dictatorial means, closing down Parliament's building because you are afraid of your own voters. What kind of government is this? He lost his credibility and he's a coward. And I will also make a small detour, because today has been said several times that, as a result of substantive consultation, the regulatory content of the 58-related draft law has changed in 34 areas. In the submitted 164-page draft law, there are a number of changes in wording compared to the original, but these do not affect the substance or have taken out texts that were inherently unreal in practice. I could say that because I'm going to quote these things like a Fidesz-Hungarian dictionary. What do you claim and what is reality translated into Hungarian? They do not want to see that teachers simply want to work, raise and educate a dynamic, thinking youth, and that students are a XXI. They want to be trained to live in the century. We, the opposition, are simply strengthening their voices, because they cannot set foot here. You can't listen to what you think of the draft law on them from up there. You create virtual and moral panic. There's a shortage of air around Fidesz in the world, and their powerless rage over inflation in Orbán, the crappy economy, is being conducted through education. They're looking for an enemy image, and they're using communication maneuvers to defuse responsibility. Do you want a change of status in critical times? Don't do it! The shadow government led by Dobrev Klára and the DK fraction are sure to vote no to the Vengeance Act and I am also a educator. You've made mistakes so far. Be brave and say you're sorry, we'll fix the mistake. Dare to press a "no" button on the status law! Make up your minds and be the men of the heart, of the soul. Trust me, your souls will calm down. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause on the opposition side.]]
u2023-06-16-163	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Andrea Hegedüs. The next speaker is Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2023-06-16-164	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Let me begin by thanking all teachers for their work, thanking them for their position in recent years and in this academic year, and also thanking Congresswoman Hegedüs for her work as a teacher in previous years. Now, on the first day of vacation, when students are on vacation, teachers still have work to do at school, because they have a lot of work to do, graduations, graduations, closures, meetings. From here, I would also like to thank the teachers for the sacrifice they have spent all year on educating and educating our children. I'm sorry none of you did that. I'm going to explain why this is happening. Madam Congresswoman spoke here in Parliament for a long and heartfelt time. I thanked you for your pedagogical work, but time will decide whether it is worth giving up this pedagogical work for Ferenc Gyurcsány's unconventional and unconditional service. I don't think it's worth it, but you chose to serve Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[Balázs Barkóczi: What you're doing is a disgrace!]] But I have a question. The congresswoman was talking about locks. Now I've been looking back on the Internet for pre-2010 news. Congresswoman, I ask you, did you speak out before 2010 against the fact that in 381 settlements the Gyurcsány government abolished the possibility of studying students locally? Did he speak up when they said they'd take a month's wages from teachers? Where were you then? And now he's signed to the man who's done the most damage to the Hungarian education system! He signed for unconditional service to the man, Ferenc Gyurcsány, who did the most harm to the Hungarian education system. Did you speak up then? In 381 small settlements, the school ceased to exist. Do you know how much damage this has done to the Hungarian education system, honourable Member? Did Balázs Barkóczi speak, or did he speak up, when he spoke in a loud voice about the seat of the shadow minister on the pulpit when 15,000 teachers were dismissed? 15,000 teachers were released between 2002 and 2010. The number of teachers has decreased by so much, my fellow Members. My question is, where was Balázs Barkóczi, Zsolt Gréczy in a big voice then, where was Andrea Hegedüs, Olga Kálmán or Judit Ráczné Földi? Did you beat the table, organized protests, or did you say on television that what Ferenc Gyurcsány is doing can't go on because he's destroying the education system? Where was Szabolcs Szabó then, why didn't he speak up against this, and then what did he think he was running with DK-logo? Or Rebecca Szabó, or Sándor Szabó, or I could tell anyone that you were going ahead with DK-logos. They thought that Ferenc Gyurcsány, who destroyed the Hungarian education system, who wanted to introduce tuition fees... [[Zsolt Gréczy: You introduced tuition fees!]]
u2023-06-16-165	Dear Congressman, I must warn you to stop yelling at me. Thank you very much. Go on.
u2023-06-16-166	You have made teacher training a tuition winner twice, first during the period of Gyula Horn, which you have defended in political debates here in recent weeks, and then twice between 2002 and 2010. Teacher training has been awarded twice in the last 20 years, honourable Members. Where were they when the National Book Publisher was purchased by Ferenc Gyurcsány's business partner, at a price below? Ladies and gentlemen, for HUF 3.2 billion, Ferenc Gyurcsány's business partner obtained the National Book Publisher with the best offer of HUF 4.2 billion. The state lost HUF 1 billion on the fact that Ferenc Gyurcsány's buddy and business partner had to sell the National Book Publisher. That's what happened, Congressman Gréczy. Ferenc Gyurcsány's business partner and friend sold the National Book Publisher. [[Balázs Barkóczi: Talk about the law now!]] No one actually told me about that. During your administration, textbook prices have increased by 68 percent in lower school, 72 percent in upper school and 71 percent in secondary education. Congresswoman Hegedüs, in her work as a teacher, do you remember that there were priceless textbook packages during the Gyurcsány government? That a family with three children had to pay 120 to 150 thousand forints, while the average salary was 160 thousand forints, honourable Member. That's what it cost a big family to start school. And it doesn't include the eraser, the notebook, the pencil, the gym bag, it's just the textbook, Madam Honourable. Do you know how much Hungarian students have to pay for textbooks now? Zero forints! It's in the budget you usually scold and don't vote for. Zero forints, because the textbook is free for all Hungarian students. That is a huge difference, honourable Member. At the time, each child's textbook package was 20-30 thousand forints, and in high school it had to pay even more, which I find quite shameful. Now it's free. During the second Orbán government, the National Book Publisher was re-owned to 100% of the Hungarian property after it was able to buy back from Ferenc Gyurcsány's business partner and friend. We remember that in higher education you tried to introduce a tuition fee, which was prevented by the strong stand of the Hungarian people in the 2008 referendum. If it had been up to you, a full tuition fee would have been introduced, as you have tried with a visitation fee, a hospital allowance, and so on. Hundreds of billions were taken out of education. How was it then, Congresswoman, that protest when the education budget was cut by hundreds of billions and a good part of the education work was put on the settlements, but no funding was added? Do you remember that the government had to be freed from 1,400 billion forints of debt after the 2010 government change? That was because of what you did? They gave and gave the tasks to the municipalities, but did not add funding. Let's see who pretends to be concerned about the issue of Hungarian education today in a false way, for political gain, pretending to be concerned about the situation of Hungarian teachers. Hungarian teachers should be valued. This is why between 2013 and 2017, their wages increased by 50 percent in several stages. According to OECD data, the highest number of teachers' wages in Hungary was increased between 2013 and 2017. Did anyone from our stock tell you that we're stopping here because that's enough, we've done the job? We never said that. There's a lot ahead of us. Every year I managed to raise my teacher's wages, less, more, but I always did. And our goal is to earn 80% of the average graduating salary, and then more. The question, Mrs Hegedüs, is that you have talked to Klára Dobrev in your life. This is a very important question. She is the wife of your party president, the Brussels representative who, for a monthly salary of HUF 5-6 million, is doing so that he will use all his political influence to prevent Hungarian teachers from getting the salaries due to them. [[19.00]] Anna Donáth is working on it, working on Katalin Cseh, Klára Dobrev, Attila Ara-Kovács, Csaba Molnár, Sándor Rónai, Márton Gyöngyösi and István Ujhelyi working on not getting this salary, raising their wages by Hungarian teachers and teachers. I think this is a huge problem, ladies and gentlemen. Did Szabolcs Szabó ask his fellow party, Anna Donáth and Katalin Czech, Andrea Hegedüs ask Klara Dobrev or Csaba Molnár? Csaba Molnár said it was his patriotic obligation not to have EU funds and not to have access to teachers, businesses and municipalities. Ferenc Gyurcsány said that, of course, you are doing this, of course you are at the negotiating table. After that, I think it is very false to worry about the salary increase of teachers, because there is currently a piece of political force working on the wage increase of teachers and the appreciation of teachers in Hungary, and this is the Fidesz-KDNP. That is the case, ladies and gentlemen, because the deceitful, lying policy they are trying to pursue is the political profiteering, the hysterical and morale that you normally perform here, trying to organise violent demonstrations, and lying through such an important debate in Parliament, I think it is unworthy of Hungarian education. [[Sándor Szabó intervenes.]] ; unworthy of the issue of Hungarian education, unworthy of what we are talking about here in this law. When it is claimed that those 34 amendments were only language-placed from 58 points, and it is not important that my fellow Member Hollik has just given two examples of what the amendments were that were accepted by the wallet in the course of the negotiations. Don't lie to the Hungarian teachers. In 34 places, the government said that it should be the way teachers' unions, interest organisations, teachers want it to be. That's the negotiation, that's the negotiation. Because you don't pay any attention to the Secretary of State's exposé here, you didn't read this law, you don't care about reality, you don't interfere with your clarity about what's in this law. They don't talk about facts. You've written the verdict in advance, and for you, it's a political hysterical act. You've decided what you're going to say, you've decided to oppose everything this government is doing, whether it's good or not, and you've come in here with pre-written texts. [[Rebecca Szabó: We didn't read the law, ah!]] With pre-written indictments, pre-written indictments. It is not about what is in the law, it is not about what was negotiated, it is not about what the Secretary of State said; it is about what is important for you that the selfies prepared by Szabó Timea and Gergely Arató can get on Facebook and you can claim to stand up for the Hungarian teachers. If they wanted to stand up for the Hungarian teachers, they would not behave like this, but would try to help in a meaningful way in the struggle to obtain, for example, the source of their legitimate wage increase, in which Fidesz-KDNP is at the forefront, and in which we will try everything to improve the situation of Hungarian education, as we have done in the past 13 years. You'd better join this camp. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-06-16-167	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I give the floor to Congressman Szabolcs Szabó, Momentum.
u2023-06-16-168	Thank you very much for the floor. One thing I'm sure about is that I'm telling Nacsa Lőrinc that there are times when a Member is writing his speech in advance. This is because you take your work seriously, you want to create a text in which every sentence is preferably in place. It is much more structured to express one's opinion if it is prepared on paper and then read it. Then later in the debate, it is possible to argue a little more freely. That's why I'm choosing this solution, too, so that we do it all the time as a social science conference. [[Intercoms in the pro-government ranks.]] I'll tell you my opinion in a structured way. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And then we'll argue. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us has caused a lot of debate in recent months. The reason for this is not the minework of some sort of serialist background power. [[Intercoms in the pro-government ranks.]] Even if that is what they want to make themselves and their constituents believe, it is the content of the bill and its message. First of all, I think we all agree, and the pro-government politicians have talked a lot about this in recent months, which, after their many years of denial, has been a whole new phenomenon, that there are many problems in Hungarian public education. One of the problems most faced is the low wages of teachers. There's no debate in this, it's obvious. Of course, this is only one element of the set of problems, and a possible settlement of wages alone would not solve the countless problems that spread from within the system, but would give some time to resolve the big set of problems. After all, besides low wages, there are many areas of education that are very wrong, and that is why we are saying that public education is in crisis. There's been a debate between us, because I think, according to the Momentum, and by the way, the strike teachers, protest teachers, [[Intercoms in the pro-government ranks.]] According to students, parents [[The president's ringing the bell.]] There are a lot of problems for those who are constantly expressing their views. They also say that teachers are overwhelmed, students are overwhelmed, schools have no professional autonomy, teachers and teachers have no professional autonomy, the basic plan bleeds from a thousand wounds, the maintenance system is working poorly, and there is simply a great shortage of teachers, and I could tell by the length of time. The question then is what will be resolved by the bill before us. My brief answer to this is that practically nothing. Well, let's look at it in a little bit more detail, four points. Point 1. First of all, it is worth noting that this was not called a law of vengeance by those involved. This bill represents the same mentality that the director of the film Ádám Tősér, Blokad, presented the other day as a textbook example. In case you hadn't heard, the director of your course film brought the film critic walking across the hall to the ground with a noble simplicity, simply because he dared to write his opinion off the film, and then, for sure, he even threatened to rearrange his face. Now I would literally not quote what you said, so naturally I respect the House. The same is what you are saying to the teachers, at the head of police minister Sándor Pintér: did you protest, disagree, discuss problems? Well, you're gonna get it now, huh? That's why teachers call it the Revenge Act, because teachers, students, parents have often been on strike, protesting, organizing live chains, organizing protests over the last few months because of the problems of education, over the last year or so. Instead of solving the problems, however, all they got was revenge. Point 2. The biggest problem of public education in the short term to be solved and solved is the low salaries I have already mentioned. You have been saying for almost a year that when the money comes from the EU, you will raise your salary, while it was clear that the money could be raised without it. Moreover, hopeful EU funds would only be enough for a fraction of the wage increases promised. Let us therefore state that this bill alone does not make the teacher's salary significantly higher, no matter how beautiful numbers are written in the codified text. The trick is you still don't want to give me the money. Thus, with a noble simplicity, the categories of payments are defined in such a wide range that they can and can do anything from hunger to luxury payment, but in fact there will be no substantial increase until the EU funds arrive, as you have been told that you do not want to give money from your own national sources, and you will keep payments at the bottom of the pay lines until someone else pays for this. Let us not mention the small professional problem that the increase in wages has not been caused by legislation. In addition, even if you think so, in an emergency, you have constantly shaped the laws with government regulations and we are living in regulation governance. That means they could have changed any law at any time. But, I'm telling you, the law wasn't the reason you couldn't raise wages. In reality, you didn't want to give a raise to the teachers, and you spent the money on something else, because if you wanted to give a raise to the teachers, you wouldn't be chasing laws, you'd simply put higher numbers in the sum column, all the rest of the bullshit. [[19.10]] Point 3. In particular, we need to highlight from the set of problems the absolutely shocking lack of teachers. Today, not only in remote rural schools, there is a lack of specialised teachers, but also in large cities and even in Budapest. Today we need a magnifying glass to look for educators, for example, who teach science subjects. For example, I have an acquaintance who recently graduated from an average quality high school in Budapest, with only temporary replacements for his math teacher for the last two years, when that substitute teacher went into the math class. I know a county, and it's not an aired number, and I'd quote numbers in a professional journal, so I know a county that doesn't have a locally employed chemistry teacher in 70 percent of the assignments. In Budapest, 38 percent of high schools do not have locally employed chemistry teachers. These are data from 2021, not so old, I suppose, Csaba Szakmány's name to a familiar Secretary of State. Of course, if there is no locally employed chemistry teacher, this means that even if it is solved by substitution, although it can only be solved in a small part, the quality of pedagogical work is still deteriorating, children's performance is deteriorating, and talent management cannot be discussed in such a case. It's no coincidence that they barely apply for chemistry teachers, for example. Today we have come to the point that more and more people are leaving the teaching profession, while the number of young people applying for teaching at universities has broken down, and those who finish have only a small share left on the field. There is simply no supply, and this is your fault, because after 13 years of government, it is relatively difficult to point to anyone else. Point 4. What is particularly outrageous is that you are constantly stunning the public by how much you have negotiated. However, I do not consider it a meaningful discussion when, exceptionally, on one occasion, the police minister descends to a trial, and immediately declares that the leaders of the students and trade unions concerned are not given the floor. I do not consider this to be a meaningful discussion. And I also do not consider it a meaningful discussion, which has been constantly reported by the professional organisations with which you have negotiated very good on paper. They kept reporting to me, among other things, that there had just been a State Secretary, a Deputy State Secretary, or a Head of Department who had announced in advance that he had no decision-making powers, that they would take the opinions expressed as a postman, that they had taken him somewhere, and then there would be either a reply or no answer later. This isn't a negotiation. So, to sum up, this whole thing is a charade, it's all about kicking a big one into the teachers, while the world around us is turning, creaking. Here's a bunch of new technology, here's artificial intelligence. Basically, we need to put everything on a new footing in our lives in the very short term, really within five to ten years. We should adapt to this very quickly, very effectively, based on modern, progressive education. But you can't see that, so we're practically going in blindly with our pants down on the XXI. And that's why we're gonna miss the rest of the world. It is quite shocking to see how we lose the entire XXI in a few years. And we're only at the beginning of the century. We are therefore asking that this proposal be withdrawn. At last turn open and understanding towards teachers and students, listen to their requests, serve them, because that would be your job, the service, not revenge and whiplashing. Turn to them, look at them with a view of understanding and openness. It's okay if they don't listen anyway, and they're actually wondering what's going to happen on the next Mezőcsát-Kisvárda rank. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Mezőkövesd!]] Just make it look like they're open and understanding, and it's gonna be easier for them, and the teachers are gonna calm down. Then do what the experts suggest, and don't follow their own lead. Believe me, most of the problems are solved automatically by themselves, simply by listening to the opinion of competent experts, it is not that complicated, I think it is called governance. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the lines of MSZP, DK, Momentum, LMP and Dialogue.]]
u2023-06-16-169	Thank you very much, Congressman Szabó Szabolcs. The next speaker is Congressman László Pósán, Fidesz.
u2023-06-16-170	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I've already said it in my two-minute comment, but I think we need to repeat it here. So it is not to be discussed that there have been 20 professional discussions with a number of organisations on the law, and I repeat in 34 of the 58 topics, that is more than 50 percent, almost 60 percent of the government has accepted the positions raised by the various organisations, so it is quite difficult to interpret this in a different way than that it has shown a great deal of willingness to compromise. In recent years, there's been a series of successful movies on HBO, the Game of Thrones. I quote this because at the end of it there is a saying that I think should be taken to heart. This is said to be not satisfied, so a good compromise has been reached. That's what one of the main characters, Tyrion Lannister, says. Well, something like this can be said: the government has allowed a great deal, but the only solution I can see for you is to do what you imagine would happen 100 percent. But, please, that's not a negotiation. So it's obviously a wooden iron ring. So the thing that you said at the meeting when the parties took part in this is that they didn't come here to negotiate. Well, if you're not here to negotiate, I don't see what kind of negotiation you're trying to get. There's one more thing you shouldn't forget. With regard to legislation, legislation sets out who and when the government is obliged to consult. Involuntarily bringing in civil society organisations that are of interest to each other, will not be able to do so, it will be inexhaustible. In fact, let us add that it is even a sign of special goodwill that there were trade unions in the negotiations where, at least in the case of the PDSZ, it is certain that the proportion, the fact that they would be a representative trade union, in Hungarian, the membership of the workers' trade union reaches 10 percent is highly doubtful. For example, there would not be such an obligation, but there was consultation with them, yet there were a number of issues in which they were expressed. Oh, by the way, many times the Teachers' Union didn't agree with them, that's a different question, but you should probably play this game on that side of the square, how it is and how it is. I'll give you a simple example, and then it'll be clear. The PDSZ rejects the new remuneration linked to performance or based on benchmarking. The Teachers' Union was no longer so negative, there was only the question of whether it should be part of the basic wage or in the form of a quality replacement. And the Faculty of Pedagogism supported it quite simply. So it is clear that there have been a wide variety of opinions on this. In the world of educators, if you look at previous periods, it was always a matter of coming back, or raising a problem, how is it possible that one of the educators is doing that, doing that, and paying the same thing as the one who didn't do this or that or that, just keeping his mandatory classes. Moreover, performance-based evaluation does not come from nothing, there is experience, and there is knowledge, as it has been used in vocational training for years. It also works quite well in vocational training and has worked. The same works in many areas, and it also works in higher education. Well, why would that be from the devil? The performance-based evaluation, I think, will be a useful step forward in the future. And not to mention, we have a test year, when we look at it, without any consequences, where the system is good, where it needs to be refined, where it needs to be brought in new elements. This was also mentioned by the Secretary of State. [[19.20]] By the way, I've noticed that Nacsa Lőrinc is right, too, that you have not read this law many times. They come up with topics that aren't in the law. They raise questions that are not dealt with by the law. In relation to the increase in wages, let us add the issue or highlight the issue that is always raised over and over again as to how Brussels is coming to the table. Well, I would like to note that it was not possible, indeed, for a long time, to plan to pay wages from the EU's sources, but, on the Covid side, as a result of Covid, when it was necessary to restart the economies everywhere in Europe, that is when Brussels suggested that Member States could plan such funds for such expenditure. In light of this... and, of course, Hungary has also prepared its plan to recover, which is about the fact that, as well as its intention to recover, what we presented among the first, there were no critical voices, much later they came forward, let us add, out of absolute political motivation, and we were given the signal that this could happen, that Hungarian funds could therefore quickly, so that the economy could recover as quickly as possible, that Hungarian funds and budgetary resources were shifted towards the recovery of the Hungarian economy, precisely so that jobs would remain, so that families could prosper and could be classified nicely. And now you're having a problem with how it is and how it is. Well, let us be clear: we have been tricked from Brussels. And you're assisting me on this, not a little bit, but a lot. I would also like to say that, by the way of this bill, you are bringing up points that outline some sort of catastrophic, apocalyptic picture. Balázs Barkóczi, for example, said that the digitalization of education was cancelled, that it was terrible what was there. Well, please, the facts and reality don't show that. I'm not saying it's done, and we're okay, but to say nothing happened, it's just not true. [[Noise in the ranks of the governing parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] Let me give you a simple example. Between 2018 and 2020, we developed broadband internet, modern Wi-Fi network from 26 billion forints, almost four thousand public education institutions were connected to this, or linked to this, and today, in institutions performing public education tasks, 294 thousand different desktop computers, notebooks, tablets, laptops, and so on, this is not a small number, no matter how we look at it, and 46,000 teachers received their own laptops. I'm not saying that this is the end of it, I'm just saying that we started on a much larger scale than the previous period in terms of development that we would like to continue, and if there is no such Covid there is no war, then we will probably be able to keep the paces that we planned. The fact that there are cases of force majeure, unfortunately, is not predictable, and we have to deal with them in some way. 90 percent of students in public education are data from national competence measurement, so 90 percent of students in public education have IT tools and Internet connections in Hungary today. It's not 100 percent yet, I admit, but to 90 percent, it's now a state close to the end of the world, obviously not so. The EU average is 92 per cent of households and 91 per cent of households in Hungary. Well, please, we're almost there. If everything in the European Union is good, then there is no need to say that everything is wrong with us, at least on the basis of the figures, it follows that this is a form-form state. By the way of the bill, I consider it an important and forward-looking step that the benefits that have so far been linked to the status of civil servants now extend to all teachers in the field of teaching, for example, the Jubilee Prize has not been self-evident before, and when you say that this law cannot be supported, you want, among other things, to withdraw this opportunity from these teachers. This bill raises the level of freedom, 50 days a year, and that's what the various additional freedoms realize. I think that if we look at the situation in today's labour market, employment conditions, well, a lot of people who do not work as teachers would be very happy if they had this degree of freedom. You also want to take this away from them; why it is considered good, frankly, I do not understand, but, of course, their souls on it. There is a question in which, I believe, there will be a need to clarify the law, at least at my reading, and this is about the fact that teachers or delegates of institutions with church reservations not belonging to the National Pedagogist Faculty have so far participated in the deliberations of the National Pedagogist Faculty, and this is still the case; what is missing is that in the meantime it is also the case in the practice schools associated with universities that have been maintained as foundations that do not fall within the scope of the law on the Pedagogist Faculty, but it is not a few educators. Today, a very significant proportion of pedagogical training in Hungary is carried out in non-State institutions, but at the same time they are also subject to professional laws, and consequently it is reasonable and justified that these schools also participate in these types of deliberations, all the more so because this is where the ethical issues relating to teachers are decided. So we will certainly use such amendments, but to say that this bill will bring down education, that it will seek revenge or that there has been no negotiation, and the devil knows what you have said to us, obviously on the basis of sufficient motivation, and certainly not on the pretext of understanding reading, well, I believe that this is not right, but I can say again that everyone's soul is on it! I believe that this proposal, which is long-term negotiations, has evolved into what it is now in the course of negotiations with a lot of organisations, has changed significantly compared to the initial conditions, I think it is eligible, and we will support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-16-171	Thank you very much, Congressman László Pósán. Mr Hiller, Mr István, Mr MSZP, here is your speech.
u2023-06-16-172	Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Dear Parliament, The bill presented is about the new career of teachers, and I asked myself that there is a need to talk about the new career of teachers here in the National Assembly and in front of the public of the country, in professional and political circles. I'm saying yes. Yes! I have read the text of their bill several times, so I have an opinion on it in a professional sense, I will, I want to talk about politics, and I would also like to talk about what I have not read yet, because they have tabled it here, they have said their amendment. I thank you that if you are listening to all that I am saying, because I would like to suggest that, if that is possible, we change the course of the debate so far, because, believe me, please, I hold the debate with you on all matters relating to education policy before 2010; I would be happy to take it, whether it is here, in this room or outside the room, it is only a matter of organisation, but when we talk about a law that affects the future, I have to raise the problem of making a constant comparison between the present and the past, it may be interesting for some analysts, and for some future historians it will be a matter of research, but otherwise it is totally unnecessary. [[Máté Kocsis: A question of credibility!]] Let's not do this. [[Máté Kocsis: A question of credibility! Bence Rétvári: Destroy the past completely!]] Let's not do this. I suggest that we choose the difficult task of choosing the task of a law, in the case of a proposal for a law on education, that we try to negotiate the present in the future. This is a difficult matter, but, please, let us be honest with you that what happened before and after the change of regime was compared to the present may be an actual political debate, but I do not want to say that I want to use the time again, but that is exactly what the bill refers to in its use of the word, which is how it affects our children, and that is the future. [[19.30]] It's a difficult task. Scolding each other in different ways is an excellent way to understand; it is that, please, how a law works, what will have the effect in three to five or seven years, that is a more difficult challenge. This is also part of the problem, and rightly this bill brings it back, I have written it out,, the expression of the best interests of children, it is in it several times. Good. The problem is they took it out in 2011. It shouldn't have been brought back now, because otherwise it should have been in it all the time, and then, for the future, it could have been a common thought. [[Dr. Gyula Szeberényi Tamás intervenes.]] Don't talk about it when I talk, please. [[It's an interrogation from the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] That's why! [[Defiance.]] Respect me. [[Robert Szigó: This will be good!]] Now, the second question is, how can you draw conclusions from this law for the future, and in this I have the view that it presents a school picture that we attended at the time was very similar to the school that our grandfathers attended, and that is not the knowledge transfer process in which our children and grandchildren were involved at all. This bill and the whole process of thought that pervades it is our age, and our age was more similar to our grandfathers' knowledge of knowledge transfer. The content of the lessons has changed, but you, too, we all remember, there was a curriculum, it was broken down into lessons, grouped, learned, resigned, classified by our fathers and grandfathers. Please note that the knowledge of the knowledge transfer of our children and grandchildren to all of this, as I have just said, is in fact a proportion. I'm saying it's less than a different way to know how to transfer knowledge. If you get on a train, a bus, a subway, look at young people at a bus stop, you will certainly see young people with a slanted back, not because they have a pain in the back, but because they go into a mobile phone or a modern device, from which, by the way, in a very strange way, because we do not yet know exactly how to do this, in the sense that the organized form of knowledge transfer has been the school for the past two and a half centuries, a building where we have entered, and it is not, in any case. [[Sic!]] Please, the bill on this new career doesn't say a word. They don't think about that. While it's about our children and educators who teach children. How can the law on the future, which focuses on the best interests of children... the future of which we can see at least some every day, be seen at home on their own children and grandchildren. When a virtual community gathers in a few minutes and forms a team in Paraguay, a New Zealander, a Frenchman, a Danish and a Hungarian youth, and plays with each other in a way that they have never seen each other in life, please tell me in which paragraph this vision of the future is included! There is something in which I ask you to understand that I am talking about the past three years ago, not violating my proposal, and that we should think about it together. Look, we're living in years that hardly any of the people who live with us understand. Let's not be too happy about this. We have not yet measured exactly what the two and a half years of our children's upbringing meant when we were more or less locked in our caves. Two days ago, I had the opportunity to tell you about another bill, but I think it is so serious that I repeat: do you know that there is a country where school and kindergarten psychologists are supposed to teach children to smile? They've been wearing masks for years, and we just haven't developed what's natural for us. We are in addition to the analysis of the first surveys of what the part of the Covid epidemic that hit us meant for Hungarian children and young people, and I have to say that the six or seven or eight-year-old Hungarian boys and girls who were then schoolchildren, but who did not study in school, did not learn to read, read, count, understand poorly the text they read. If you accept from me the idea of looking at the future, then in this law there must be the idea of what we are doing to three years of Hungarian youth, because if we do not pay special professional attention and otherwise note financing attention, I do not see the money as the most serious thing here, but professional competence and will, these three years will live on the neck of Hungarian society for decades because, in vain, believe me, who does not learn the basics, we will not be able to teach it to biology, geography, history, foreign language and information in a teens. I suggest you take care of that. Please, this future law deals with the foreign language knowledge of Hungarian young people. I would be happy to remind you that in my political community's political, electoral programme, it was earlier that Hungarian young people should be taught foreign languages with the help of the Hungarian state, preferably in a mass, language context and in a native language context. This, by the way, is not a matter of interest to you in this respect, and even a ministerial commissioner has been appointed before Covid in time to organise it, an amazing amount of money has been put on it, and I think you shouldn't have had that many 72 billion forints earmarked in your plans, but Covid took it. I'm asking you to think about it, because it's only gotten worse since then. How does it not occur to you that, in the case of the new career law, the overload of the student and the overload of the educator is poorly regulated? Maybe you'll be talking to families, acquaintances, friends who have children primarily in middle school on weekends, please, these little girls and boys, children in their six or tens, by the time they get home, they don't feel like playing because they're tired. This is where I should address your amendment proposal. Please, if I understand correctly in writing, the amendment proposed by the two pro-government factions is to set the number of hours, 24 hours, and not this 22-26 for primary school teachers in the traditional sense. [[19.40]] This means that what I have just suggested is that for junior educators in primary school, teachers and teachers, they are raising their mandatory hours by 2 hours, because they now have 22. That's why you're writing it down, and then I'm gonna be able to read it or be more specific, because it's not such a big discount that, although it's decreasing to others, it's actually increasing to juniors, so it's not okay. And finally, about this Brussels thing, in which there is not only a profession, but also a policy: it is worth discussing this with each other face to face, so that our opinion and my opinion are clear, and not simply, let's say, to a television studio and then to hear it or not. The wage arrangement of Hungarian teachers is necessary, but it is not sufficient to improve the quality of Hungarian public education, but it is not enough. And the fact that you're making a political campaign out of someone supporting it and someone else doesn't support it, and then what, me, we're in this game, we're not going into this street. We're not going in because I don't accept the basics. The Hungarian teacher's salary must be paid by the Hungarian central budget, always. I think it is more fair that if they say that we have this much money, this is what the Hungarian budget can do now, but that is not what they say, but that they are making political action out of it, and the failure of the Hungarian teachers to organise their wages, because it is the last ten years that they are dragging it into this political action. I'm not gonna say, "Yeah, we'll back you up there." No, we're not. I don't accept it at all, I don't accept the norm. The Hungarian teacher's salary should be from the Hungarian central budget. Therefore, I propose to you that this law on the new career of educators be supplemented by the ideas I have proposed to withdraw the original. We will not support this in his spirit or in his political action. Please consider what I said, just to make sense of the new teaching career for the best interests of children. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the benches of MSZP and DK.]]
u2023-06-16-173	Thank you very much, Congressman István Hiller. The next speaker is Rebecca Szabó, Member of Parliament, Dialogue.
u2023-06-16-174	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps I should draw your attention to a somewhat ironic circumstance regarding the Vengeance Act. As we know, there would be a great deal of urgent legislative and legislative obligations for the government, as you are supposed to be fighting for the billions of euros, and in order to do so, you should create a number of laws that ensure the rule of law, prevent institutionalized theft; and they should also regulate a series of areas that are acceptable to the European Union. This was also last fall, to put it mildly, only modestly, and most of the issues need to be subject to a further examination. I could say here a number of cases where your legislation is completely inadequate, for example that wind energy is still not available, there is still no way to create a new wind power plant in Hungary, but that is not what I wanted to talk about now, but that I do not understand this law in particular. So they'd have a lot more to do; now you're coming with this revenge bill, and you're pissing off students, teachers, people, practically anyone involved in education, but frankly, I don't understand exactly why you're doing it, because this happens to be the least of all that anyone asks you to do. You don't have to deal with the status of teachers at all, you shouldn't do that at all, because teachers just want to teach, and students want to learn a lot. Moreover, not only did no one ask for it and does not help anyone, but it is particularly bad, as many of my opposition fellow Members have already said today. This bill serves practically one purpose: to remove the remaining minimum autonomy of the teaching society, to increase their vulnerability, to further humiliate them, to subdue them and to further destroy public education. You, my dear fellow Members of the KDNP, are hurting the country. They are hurting their own children and grandchildren, although I know you think that because a significant part of your children and grandchildren are going to a certain private school, that they will not be affected by this, but believe me that if in a society the level of education available is deteriorating, it is wrong for every member of society, even if there are those who are not otherwise studying in public education. In practice, for this law, you will be given a black pencil in the history book, and then you will have to write you an insufficient one from the Moon, because I am sure that in the future and perhaps not so far away, society will appreciate this, and therefore you will get a huge insufficient one, because it will not always be this smudge you are doing, it will not always be two-thirds, it will not always be a blasphemous, insane lie dumping [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Fidesz troll news; by the way, sometimes watching the state TV news is, I don't know, time travel. So, once everything goes right, even if it's the destruction you're doing now, unfortunately, it's not gonna help, because now there are kids in public education, now there are teachers in public education that you're ruining your life, opportunities and your future. Like I said, there would be a lot of work to be done in the field of education. Such problems include: the ageless curriculum, the burden of teachers and students, centralisation, the immeasurable underfunding of the sector, the weakness of infrastructure conditions and, of course, the extremely low wages. After 13 years of Fidesz governance, it has become practically a school year-on-year practice that small and large people go to school with toilet paper and paper for printing, so that at least the first half of the academic year there will be no shortage of these. After 13 years of Fidesz government, if something goes wrong in a school, say, the faucet drips or the carnis break down, then the truth is, the school's employees are first talking to parents, and they're hoping that there are moms and dads between the parents of the kids who can do these assembly work, because the schools don't get a framework for them from the school district, and it's amazingly complicated to get them done on official terms, so they're hoping that the parents can do it. In practice, after 13 years of Fidesz, Orbán government, teachers are one of our lowest-paid countrymen. You obviously can't imagine what it's like to have just over 200 thousand forints in the account at the beginning of the month, and unfortunately, this state is known by 150,000 Hungarian compatriots, as you have condemned the entire Hungarian teaching society to this fate. So there's a lot of trouble, but you don't have the expertise to solve it. Of course, there would be expertise in professional organizations, teachers' unions, the Teachers' Movement, even among the members of the Single Student Front, or there are a number of professional organizations with which... [[Intercoms from the benches of the ruling parties.]] They can also be called an interest organisation, but imagine that they are involved in education and they have specific professional proposals. They've compiled a nine-point list of specific proposals they'd like you to make instead of this outrageous vengeance law. I'll explain that later. It's just that you don't want to hear these things on purpose. When the teachers wanted to draw attention to the system's untenable nature by strikes, you, Fidesz, had forbidden resistance by rewriting the strike law. When you didn't leave the law, the teachers finally took action on civil disobedience, you responded with firings. When the students and teachers protested to improve their situation, and then you blew tear gas at them and hit them, it wasn't that long ago. You're a cordon government, and you specifically used violence against teachers and children, students. This will not be forgiven by the Hungarian society either. [[Róbert Zsigó intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] So you didn't offer a solution to these problems, you presented the Vengeance Act: the law by which you avenged the fact that the teachers, organizing themselves, tried to stand up for their interests and stood up for their interests and initiated a dialogue with you, and you presented this Vengeance Act. This law is the law of violence. You are not giving peace to the education sector, but your goal is to show off power. I am not going to list all the harmful elements of this legislation now, and we will discuss this later, but allow some. [[19.50]] You think it will result in a more modern education system if teachers are exploited more than today, so they would allow their weekly working time to be 48 hours instead of 40 hours. I really want to ask you: what is the future or more modern in this? Or do you think it may lead to a modern education system if teachers can be transferred between schools and settlements? Or I ask: you consider the KLIK's reservation system so good that, taking away the remaining autonomy of the institutions, KLIK strengthens the rights of the institution maintainer, because we can see how this has worked so far. Not at all, specifically. So instead of easing this centralization, they're twisting it now, and it's getting even stronger. So, according to the Dialogue-Greens, this draft law could not even be a basis for negotiation; it should be immediately withdrawn, and, in real consultation with the professional organisations, it will bring to the House a really necessary legislation allowing modern education, because I think that they have received it, and I think that it is originally a mandate from the people. And I would also like to say that it was very interesting that it was very interesting, that it was exaggeration, but let's say it was strange for you to listen to the argument. [[Deterioration from the dialogue benches. Nacsa Lőrinc: Very interesting!]] And here I am thinking of Dr. László Pósán and Dr. Mary Kállai. My fellow Members, you have told me how great performance-based pay is and why it is wrong and why everyone here doesn't want to be paid on a performance-based basis. I am thinking that Members of Parliament should be paid on the basis of their performance. [[Szabó Timea: Yes! The president's ringing the bell.]] And I've been looking at some of the Fidesz congressmen here, really a little random, who were here before, but now they're out. [[Intruder from the benches of the governing parties: Let's hear it!]] My colleague Nacsa likes to talk a lot [[Szabó Timea: Bullshit!]] So you deserve to be paid because you're doing your job. [[Noise and interruptions.]] But here's Dr. András Demeter, who was just sitting in the back row with some spectacular boredom, and I looked at him, for the last year he had a piece of speech and a total of three proposals. [[Szabó Timea: That's right!]] Well, it's not that much to me. I think we should deduct two thirds of your salary, let's say I'll leave it up to you. I think you should put forward a proposal on how to measure your performance, of course, ours, perhaps take a look at your own proposals... [[Intercoms from the benches of the governing parties: Ákos Hadházy...]] He's yelling at me! He's yelling at me! [[The president's ringing the bell.]] So let's take a look at your paycheck. Or here is Dr. Gábor Riz: three speeches last year; Árpád Potápi: one speech; Dr. Imre Pesti: six, well, that's all right, I see it as an absolutely good number. Dr. Mária Kállai, who mentioned this by the way, you have eight speeches, and I'm gonna give you a shot; I think this is a really good ratio in the last year's fidesz benches. I looked at it as an example, and I don't want to be an example of myself right now, but I've had 69 speeches in the last year. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties, interrogations from the same place: Bravo!]] And 86 of my own proposals. Now, I'm not trying to tell you to double my salary, no, I'm fine with what I have, thank you, a lot of it, I just wanted to say that if you guys are here talking in a big voice about how it's going to be with the teachers, and it's going to be performance, and it's not going to matter now, and you guys are gonna figure it out, so maybe you should take a look at yourselves and measure your own performance with a similar standard. [[István Hollik: Soros...]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Claps and cheers from the floors of Dialogue and Momentum.]]
u2023-06-16-175	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Rebecca Szabó. [[It's ringing.]] Here are two-minute comments: Ágnes Kunhalmi, Andrea Hegedüs, Róbert Zsigó, Timea Szabó. I will no longer be able to give Mónika Dunai the opportunity in this circle. First, Ms Agnes Kunhalmi, MSZP.
u2023-06-16-176	Thank you very much. Mr President, [[He's got his microphone in his hand.]] That's how I'm gonna do it. I would like to respond to a much, much earlier comment. One is that the war is constantly referred to by the government as the death of the country. Then I'll ask you again: the Czechs are not affected by war? Why were they able to decide in both houses that they would otherwise raise teacher's wages? The Romanian example... [[Bence Rétvári: We are deciding about this now...]] Yes, but they are raising from a national budget, and Czech politicians have also said that Czech wages should be financed from the Czech national budget and not waiting for Brussels. [[Bence Rétvári: They got...]] I'll never understand why a government so sensitive to its sovereignty wants a penny... [[Bence Rétvári interrupts.]] I understand how it goes, Mr Retvári, you are right, this money is due; Hungarian teachers are saying that this money comes from the national budget. If you would like to raise your wages from the Community budget, you and Mr Nacsa would also like to raise your wages. [[Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] That's not from Brussels, because that's Romanian money, Hungarian money, German money, everybody's money. I accept that, by the way, the Commission has decided to agree through the EFOP, but the payment is conditional. There is no unconditional life, Rethvári was right about that, and I agree with him. There is no unconditional life from the Community budget, but it could be financed from the Hungarian national budget. I find it shameful or sad that, unfortunately, teachers cross the border to Romania because the salary is slightly higher, and even there [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Education suffers, too, but do you know why there are big protests there? Because they didn't restrict the strike there, they don't make laws that intimidate educators. Thank you. [[Bence Rétvári: There is the biggest educator's fair in Romania! Why are you showing me this? Applause from the benches of MSZP.]]
u2023-06-16-177	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Kunhalmi. [[Noise in the room. It's ringing.]] The next two-minute Congresswoman Andrea Hegedüs, DK.
u2023-06-16-178	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Again, I'm a teacher, and I taught for 31 years. There's no question of that, it's experience and practice, which means that a law of vengeance that you've introduced can be classified as a credible educator. On the other hand, I would like to ask Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa: how many years have you taught, what kind of teaching experience and practice is behind you? How many careers have you lived? How many ratings did you write? [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] How many portfolios did you make as a teacher? 'Cause I've done a lot. And I would add that there are colleagues who, with four degrees, write a portfolio that takes time away from children; children, disciples, take away useful, meaningful time. I would also like to say that you mentioned that it was a free textbook. Yes! But what about the free textbook selection? I'd like to keep going, let's do another little job. Not enough psychologists, developer educators, catch-up educators in the system. The Vengeance Act does not include, for example, the fate of children with multiple disadvantages and disadvantaged children. He mentioned the rent: 260,000 forints for a career-starting educator; 360,000 forints for a pre-retirement educator who worked for 40 years. On the other hand, what is Pintér's salary? It's approaching $3 million. He also mentioned Klára Dobrev's government. He will also increase pensions and wages, teachers' wages, instead of prices. And if you look at the fact that there are more of you in the European Union than the Democratic Coalition, then it is your shame that you are only so capable. Teacher wages shall be paid at the expense of the central budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the DK benches. Interjection from the same place: That's right!]]
u2023-06-16-179	Thank you, Congresswoman Andrea Hegedüs. The next two-minute Congressman, Róbert Zsigo, Fidesz.
u2023-06-16-180	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would just like to respond to Mrs Rebecca Szabó's stand-up by saying that she has a performance assessment for Members, it is called a parliamentary election, where you have achieved virtually immeasurable performance, that is the case. [[Bence Tordai keeps interrupting. The president's ringing the bell.]] With all due respect to Congressman Hiller, do not take back the fact that we are talking about the previous period; we simply consider it a question of credibility that you are saying that what is unreal here is being governed between 2002 and 2010. Only a few short things have been said here: in 381 places the educational activity in the country was terminated, 15,000 teachers were dismissed, a month's wages were taken, 1300 billion forints were withdrawn from education during that period. During that period, teachers in church schools did not even receive the support they should have received from the Vatican contract; during that period they only promised the free textbook. Those corruption scandals that happened back then, let's not talk about it. I'll tell you one thing: for example, the Sulinet Express scandal or the cocoa-proof computers. [[20.00]] The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, the majority of your speeches show that you have not read the law. You could have replaced that when Secretary Maruzsa spoke, but you didn't listen to him either. [[Bence of Turdai: He wrote that he was lying!]] The thing is, you don't care about teachers, students or education, you're here baking your own political interests. Shame on you for that. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-16-181	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next two-minute comment is Congresswoman Szabó Timea, Dialogue.
u2023-06-16-182	Ladies and gentlemen, Not so surprisingly, but you keep lying about a teacher's wage increase. They're sniffing around here, and I don't know if the opposition representatives are gonna stop the money from coming here, but if the money came, you'd double the pay of the teachers right now, wouldn't you? I've got a 2019-2020 teacher's lease table right in front of me. [[He's showing me a document.]] European comparison. Not this year, not last year, but 2019, when the EU money was still coming, only you stole EU money for canopy-free canopy walks, which is why you're not getting it now. Let's take a look at this picture right here. Do you know what this little green thing here didn't even fit on the paper? [[Nacsa Lőrinc: The Dialogue! Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] This is the average wage of Hungarian teachers. Do you know where this is? Between Serbia and Northern Macedonia. Here is the average wage for the Danishs, Germans, Belgians, French, Italians, Malta, Portugal, but here is the average wage for the Czechs, Slovaks, Poles, Slovenians; and once again: the average wage for Hungarian teachers in 2019-20, not now, but when the EU funds came, is here under the bottom of the frog, after Serbia, after Romania, after Slovakia, after Poland. So I'm asking you very nicely to stop lying very quickly. I understand you're not saying that because you believe it, but because your master said that's what you have to say. By the way, I agree with Rebecca Szabó. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] For example, Antal Rogán's salary would be zero because he has spoken once in the last four years. So you really should introduce a performance assessment... [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties. Róbert Zsigó: You can go to the Soros bank! Szabó Timea: You go to the Rogán bank!]]
u2023-06-16-183	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts. The president's ringing the bell.]] I remind Congresswoman that it is not possible or impossible to illustrate with paper, but I have let her go. [[Eva Scars intervenes.]] The next two-minute comment is Szabolcs Szabó, Momentum.
u2023-06-16-184	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. The source of wage increases has often been mentioned here in recent comments. Then I'd like to add a little additive to that. [[Nacsa Lőrinc towards Szabó Timea: Don't go! Szabó Timea: I'm going to speak at the demonstration, I'm coming back!]] As long as colleagues quickly unscrew the intense debate. Thank you very much. So, I'd like to add a little additive to this pay-raise issue, because, you know, the government says they're giving us 10 percent from national sources, that's it, that's it, and we're waiting for someone else to give us. And I thought of this: there is this excellent man, Gyula Balásy, who has received so many orders from you since 2016, with the Hungarian taxpayers' money, that since 2016, he has taken 44 billion forints out of hundreds of billion forints in government communication from his companies. He didn't get that much money for advertising, that's all he took out. That's 44,000 million forints. Everyone calculate if only this HUF 44,000 million had been given to teachers since 2016 and I said a lot. So it is not true that there is no room for manoeuvre in a budget of more than HUF 40,000. Yeah, you're the only ones who spend the money on something else. That's why it's false when they point at someone else that they don't because they don't give, they don't give, they hurt, and I don't know what they are. They don't want to give, let's face it, that's the thing. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2023-06-16-185	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next two-minute comment is Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2023-06-16-186	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Again with the fucking slips, isn't it, Congressman Szabo? It's not someone's money, it's our money, it's the Hungarian people's money, it's the money of Hungary, it's the money of teachers, it's the money of small and medium-sized enterprises, it's the money of local governments. That's not someone else's money. [[Bence Tordai: Butcher's Lőrinc's money. The president's ringing the bell.]] That's the problem. You regularly think about EU funds as if it were some kind of donation, as if it were some kind of gift. But it's not a gift, Your Honour, not a gift, not a gift. [[Kálmán Olga: And it is not to be stolen!]] In return, because we have opened up our markets and because we pay the annual contribution, the annual part of the seven-year budget is automatically due. It's automatic for Hungary, it's our money, it's written down, it's our money. The fact that now, with your powerful help, you're not paying for this is the basis for a debate, but that money is ours. Honourable Congressman, I would also like to say that it is not true that we do not raise wages from domestic sources. We raised last year, we raised again this year, we're going to raise again next year. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] Enough? It's not enough. That is why we would like to raise more. But it's not true that it's not from home sources. In fact, the EU agreement includes a teacher's wage increase, and it also includes the fact that we then maintain this salary level from the domestic budget. So there will also be an additional resource in the Hungarian budget in the coming years. Each year, wages in the education area have increased since 2010. (Bence of Turdai interrupts.)
u2023-06-16-187	Congressman Bence of Turdai!
u2023-06-16-188	Each budget has increased the amount to be spent on wages. The fact is, honourable Member, that what you are saying is therefore not true, and that is why what you are saying is false, because understand this: every year there has been an increase in the amount that can be spent on teachers' wages in the field of education, and now we want an even larger scale, as we have managed, for example, to raise the wages of doctors in the field of health at a higher stage than the small annual step. This requires an EU resource. That's why we're gonna get it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-16-189	Thank you, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I have to finish the two-minute lap. We will move on to the speakers that have been announced. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Kálmán Olga, DK. [[Bence of Turdai is leaving. Róbert Szigó: Bence Tordai doesn't like...! Bence of Turdai: I love it, they're just waiting in Kossuth Square!]]
u2023-06-16-190	Thank you very much, Mr. President. What do you want? How do you imagine the future of this country? How do you imagine the future of the economy, health care and education? How do you imagine the future of young people, our children, the next generation? Do you want to know what our kids are learning and who they're learning from? Or are you not interested in anything other than keeping your own power? [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] They put a budget before Parliament that simply does not respond to and even lays a shovel on the treatment of insufferable inflation in Orbán. They put the budget for additional price increases and tax increases on the table. That's how you responded to the livelihood crisis. They put on the table a law of vengeance that they call the status law, which they did not really agree on, and they did not listen to the views of those involved, making it more difficult for teachers and our children to threaten and intimidate teachers. Well, that's how you answer your education problems: muscle, willy, that's your style. Don't believe me, but at least believe the unions: the Democratic Union of Teachers, the Teachers' Union, believe them! They say the title of the bill just filed is a lie. It is not true that it contains provisions on the pedagogical career. No progress or predictable arches are outlined in it. Although the wallet has written about a comprehensive discussion, almost all of you here have tried to make us believe in a comprehensive consultation, but there has been no comprehensive social and professional consultation. That's what the unions say. The Orbán government has not once consulted trade unions or independent student and civil society organisations, and their proposals have not been considered, considered, incorporated, corrected. [[20.10]] Contrary to the statement of the Ministry of the Interior, the bill does not contain any professional appreciation or wage increase, and as far as the latter is concerned, nothing would have prevented the Orbán government from doing so, nor at this moment prevent the central budget from covering the wage increase instead of pointing to the European Union. Although the portfolio claims that a performance-based wage system, supported by a majority of teachers, has been established, no preliminary assessment has been carried out. Consequently, it is a lie that this is the majority of teachers and would have supported this. But once again, don't believe me, don't believe opposition politicians, but believe the representatives of the profession, the people involved. They say that it is also a stand-alone lie that this law will at some point provide a salary increase of HUF 800,000, and it is not true that it should be achieved only from EU sources that teachers receive at least 80% of the average salary of higher education graduates. Give me an answer: if you think this status law is so brilliant, and it is such a fantastic condition for those involved in education, then why is the profession protesting? What do you say? Do you think that the interest representatives representing teachers are seeking to reject a law guaranteeing a safe, predictable future, predictable professional work, a high level of education and decent wages? Is that really what you're assuming? Do you think teachers are enemies of themselves? Are they saying this law is wrong because they want it to get worse for them, education to get worse for teachers, even worse for teachers? Do you really think everyone's stupid? [[Intruder from Fidesz: Only you!]] Do you think the reason the profession is protesting is because this brilliant law is rejected by some ulterior motive or intention to be bad for everyone? Amazing! Would their job situation finally improve? Would their wages increase? They'd get professional and financial respect, but they don't want that, so they're rejecting your status law? You're just lying to yourself, and I've been thinking a few times, that you're lying to yourself or to the whole country. I think the latter is true. Who else wants to wipe the floor with everyone else? Law enforcement, invalids, nurses, philosophers, scientists have already done so. Now with the teachers and students? In 13 years, they've proven that you can't do this, that you can't manage. [[Defiance in the ranks of Fidesz.]] The economy, the budget is ruined. Health care is in ruins. Is that what you're laughing at, that education, that health care is in ruins? Is that what they're laughing about? [[Peter Cseresnyés: No! What you say, we laugh! Robert Szigó: We're laughing at you! The president's ringing the bell.]] I don't think it's funny. You can laugh at me, and I know the truth hurts. So the economy, the budget is ruined. Health care is in ruins. Laugh loudly right now. Education is ruined, too. And what's your answer to the latter? Their answer is to intimidate, regulate teachers, and then think three times about raising their voices in order to improve the quality of education for the future of children. Cut! That's your answer. Meanwhile, we read daily in the news that schools are preparing for the start of September with an emergency scenario, how they can survive the ever-increasing shortage of teachers from September, a teacher from the capital is going to teach in the countryside because at least they pay for his lunch there. If you're reading this news, aren't you ashamed? Don't you feel bad that they did this to the educator society? ! Even so, only for their own luxury, yachts, stooges, members of the oligarch gang, their own power. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Can you think of their laughter? They're gonna cut out daycare somewhere else, and they're gonna start teaching in junior high. There's a shortage of biology, geography, physics majors, everyone's replacing everyone. At one of the metropolitan schools, a young mathematics major agreed to teach physics, although he did not have a physics degree. Thus, daycare educators will perform teaching tasks in the lower classes, and there will be no daycare in the upper classes. The librarian helps, keeps the library open only for half of his working time, teaching or holding up employment in the other half. Differentiated classes have also been discontinued and specialized groups have not been held for two years. And that's just one example, and one of many schools. But you know perfectly well that this is the Hungarian reality. Some have four teachers in eight junior classes. Thus, Hungarian teachers working in the upper classes are sent to teach in the lower classes. Besides, it's very difficult to find homeroom teachers. In many places, the principal still doesn't know who the class will be in September. A primary school in Dabas published a job advertisement on Facebook, where they are looking for eight different teachers at the same time. On the various job portals, you can just search for it before the end of the school year, and you can find thousands of job advertisements from school and kindergarten. Well, is that what you're denying? Reality? What we all see and experience? And when, with their proud two-thirds power, they put a vengeance law on the table that the profession rejects, they want to make everyone think they're wrong? You want me to believe that educators are their own enemies, and that's why they're protesting your brilliant status law? Of course it's a lie, honourable government representatives. Teachers, students, parents, and everyone who cares about the fate of the future generation protests because they want revenge on teachers for raising their voice because of the quality of education and its destruction. A year ago, a teacher wrote an open letter to his associates and parents. A year ago, he wrote, "We're not on strike for ourselves, we're on strike for your child." If it was just about the money, we wouldn't have been a teacher in the first place or a cashier in some big company. We're on strike because we can't see that your child is getting a proper education. This system isn't good for him. The time allocated to 45 minutes from 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., the amount of lexical data, the number of 30 people we can no longer do anything about, is not good for him. And he doesn't like the overworked, underpaid, disdained teacher. Have you ever been impatient with your child just because you were tired? We're tired. We have to keep 26 hours a week. One day after four hours of teaching, it hurts to talk, and our brains are empty. I spent 25 years as a student, about the same amount as a teacher, and I can compare it. And where is the preparation if we want to do it right? When I started teaching, we had to keep 18 hours. Since then, we've had a full working day more pressed into our time. The real value of our salary has not increased, but there is no cafeteria, clothing money, eating tickets, which we had when we were first teachers. And there's nothing left of our freedom. We have to teach them from the textbook they tell us and what they tell us. Do you want your child to be a servant who does what he's told without saying a word? How else would we teach freedom but by example? We're on strike because we want to teach your kid to stand up for himself when he can, don't let them wipe the floor with him. When I was a beginner teacher, a student of mine saw my paycheck with my monthly salary on it. She laughed at me: teacher, my allowance is more than that! I want our salary to reach the graduate average if people appreciate what we're doing, and your kid wants to be a teacher. To have someone to teach your granddaughter. We, too, are mostly mothers, or, in a small part, fathers or fathers. We love your child as we love our own. This education system is no good for anyone. No parents, no teachers, no children. We can only change it if we want the same thing. Stand by us. I can't do this without you. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, In January 2022, Judit Ágnes Kiss wrote this open letter. It's been over a year since then. During this one year, you have not been able to hear the voices of teachers, students, parents. The only thing they've been focusing on this year is how they can intimidate teachers to listen and accept, that's what they're getting, that's how much power appreciates them. [[20.20]] You know, knowledge is freedom. The free man will not bow, break. Now they've made themselves known if they think that our children born to freedom and raised to freedom will forgive you for this. They've blocked themselves if they think they can silence our children and our teachers with vengeance and threats. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for the DK benches.]]
u2023-06-16-191	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. The next speaker from the Momentum Group is Ms Éva Sebők. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-06-16-192	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, My grandfather did only eight elementarys. This gave him the opportunity to send my father to school in winter by putting in his pockets fries in shells, which were lunch and gloves at the same time. My father graduated as a technician, and he was able to bring the family up from extreme poverty to the lower middle class. They sacrificed a lot, my grandfather sacrificed a lot to make my father better, and my father made a lot of sacrifices to make it better for me. It's better. I used to work at Forbes 500. My options were close to infinity. And I wonder how many children could walk through this curve today. In the education system that's been put together for the past 10 to 12 years, it's not much. However, not only on a unique, family level, if you look at it, it would be critically important to provide these opportunities for children, but it is in the national interest to continuously increase the added value that we put on the table. We're falling behind. We are going to miss the neighbouring countries, we are going to miss Europe. And in order to stop this delay and catch up with Europe, Hungarian education is the key. However, the success of Hungarian education requires many things. And I would like to take a conservative approach here, because, theoretically, you fellow members of the government, would be conservative. For me, conservative values mean that the teacher, the teacher, is one of the most important professions in the community life of all nations and countries; it is respectable, the teacher, the teacher, who we look up to, whom we trust. The law we are discussing is completely against that. The teacher, the teacher, is a bitch in your eyes, and this will lead to the permanent collapse of Hungarian education. Not only because of the lack of teachers, which so many of my colleagues have spoken about today, although it will also cause a very big problem, but also if they have to teach teachers with their hands tied behind their backs, that teaching cannot be a quality teaching. Each child is different, each class community is different, and if teachers cannot adapt to this, there will be unforeseen consequences. And your goal is not to let them know that every move, every word spoken, is dictated from above. We knew there'd be trouble when they gave Pintér his education. You have to be extremely stupid to think that a police force and an education system can be controlled by the same method, with the same leadership personality. I don't think you guys are stupid. All I think about is that you're evil forever. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Oh, my gosh!]] If you didn't, you'd object to what's going on. You'd object, too, but you don't object, you nod, and then you take your kids to private schools for a million and a half semester's tuition. I don't know where your Szabó Tünde colleague is. [[Noise, interruptions in the benches of Fidesz. The president's ringing the bell.]] I told you! Your colleague, Tünde Szabó, is very proud to post from private school. They're taking their kids because you know what's going on isn't good. [[Intercoms in the benches of Fidesz. Kálmán Olga intervenes.]] Philip Rákay is a perfect example! [[Interview from the benches of Fidesz: Where is it? Kálmán Olga: Search at the cashier!]]
u2023-06-16-193	Congresswoman!
u2023-06-16-194	I would very much like to understand that, in addition to the fact that you have a direct financial interest in serving the current system, what is it that you can stand for? What level of human-quality inadequacy does it take to stand up for it? ! [[István Szilárd Németh: Hoppá! It's tough!]] 'Cause that's the only way it's gonna work. That's the only way it's gonna work. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] You're putting a lot of pressure on the teachers. Not now, you've already started this process ten years ago. When did the first plaid shirts show up? We're talking decades, and you guys were okay with it. [[Interjections and information in the benches of Fidesz. The president's ringing the bell.]] I would like the Hungarian society to see what you think about this. Here's the Fidesz congressman, reading the paper during the debate. [[A statement from the Fidesz: He wasn't even here! Nacsa Lőrinc: It just came in! The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2023-06-16-195	The congresswoman has the floor! [[Gabriella Selmeczi: True! Intercoms in the pro-government benches.]] Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2023-06-16-196	Thank you very much. I would very much like to understand how they can stand so firmly for what's going on. You know very well what a shortage of teachers is. You know very well how much trouble there is in schools. You have to be absolutely blind to see how much trouble you're in. I don't know a teacher who doesn't have a second job. My young educator friends and acquaintances don't dare start a family because there's no way to start a family. And that doesn't bother you, you don't care. It is not just about money, although it is obviously also a critical issue, it cannot be as the saying is known to base the future of the Hungarian education system on the fact that IT husbands will support the Hungarian education system. But it's not just about the money. Their lack of free time has no free spiritual capacity to be people in addition to teaching. Today, being a teacher, a teacher, a kindergarten teacher is a hobby, a luxury, because the system doesn't allow anything else. And you guys are gonna stand up rock solid and play dumb, which is pretty surreal. I would very much like to understand what you think, what the consequences will be, what the outcome will be; what the opportunities of Hungarian citizens will be in 20 years' time, the opportunities of young people who will enter the field at that time. Will they wait for the good of the government at that time? Or can they build a country where they can create their own success and future? Because the education system you're trying to push now won't give them that chance. They'll still be waiting to see who and what they can fall from to survive. This is an attack on the future of Hungary. Nothing but the conscious, malicious and evil attack of the Hungarian future. And you're okay with that, you support that, you celebrate that! I would very much like to understand: can you then go to the events of your settlements and look into the eyes of these educators? You guys don't get your old teacher to tell you that, son, I'm sorry I didn't get you two big ones back then, so maybe you wouldn't do something so stupid right now? [[Németh Szilárd István: This is child abuse! Intercoms in the benches of Fidesz. Gabriella Selmeczi: Btk.-fact. The president's ringing the bell.]] What do you expect to see a factory where the young people who are in the education system are now able to get settled? Do you trust that there will be someone who will go in to babysit when there will be no one to teach you? Because we are already in a situation where not only skilled teachers teach not only profession but also simple, traditional subjects! [[20.30]] We heard you. Biology major goes in to teach physics, the chemist goes in to teach chemistry as assigned lecturer, or somehow shut down. What's the future coming from this? What's that gonna mean for graduations? What kind of footage are they gonna get? They're nothing, most of all. Or you'll have to keep up your illusion, otherwise you're excellent at that, that everything is as good as possible. There's this meme, you all probably know it when the dog sits in the middle of the house, and everything around it is burning. This is about the current situation of Hungarian education, and its future will be much worse. And they're trying to cover up the problems by banning the strike. They try to cover up problems by using their propaganda to turn Hungarian society against teachers. They can achieve success until now, but they can only hide reality for a while. And then when they're there that in September, there's really dozens of schools where they can't give the freshmen a class teacher, there's no propaganda that works anymore. You guys are gonna go in volunteering to be classmasters? I lived through it when I was in elementary school, but it's a good thing I had eight English teachers in seven years. In the same seven years, I had two homeroom teachers, a history teacher. What do you think got stronger at the end? My history or my English? They'll be wrong. My English got stronger because that's where my parents started giving me a special class. They paid for it! And that's what Anna Donáth is talking about when she talks about the fact that Hungarian people tax twice. Because once they pay the Hungarian education through their taxes, then they take their children to a special teacher; they also pay for private health. That's gonna be the new normal if you keep what you're trying to put down everyone's throat. The children of the middle class, who can afford it, will go to a special teacher from each of the existing subjects; those who do not slip into poverty or deep poverty from the middle class. And those who are already in poverty, in extreme poverty, will certainly have no vision, let alone no future, no future. There isn't any more! And it's possible to increase the administration here, tighten the rules, ban them, punish them, and get revenge, but it's not going to lead to any results or positive results in this world. If you do not think it is a positive result and the problem is that I imagine you, I am convinced that you will see this as a positive result if there are hugely and massally vulnerable electoral layers here among young adults entering. Because they'll be even easier to manipulate. Even less has to be sacrificed to propaganda. Now there's a layer of students who had a chance to study on vacation, and they're the ones who're getting tear gas in their faces. They're the ones they're taking to Speedo Street. They are the ones who are mocked by you and your propaganda, who are abused by your propaganda, and you are okay with that. You can do that. That's your conservatism. This is your patriotism. I don't really understand why it's good for you beyond the fact that the system pays you a lot of money for all of this. It says a lot about your human quality that it's enough for you. I know, I'm fully aware that I'm explaining completely unnecessary to you here. I could say anything here, you'd make the decision you're about to make. You do not have any sovereignty or autonomy over your own decisions, but I would like posterity to have in the record the national tragedy that you are now causing. Then posterity will judge how much destruction you have done, only this youth will no longer be helped. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2023-06-16-197	Thank you very much. However, I would like to inform the Member that the minutes also record that she has legonosised the people in the opposite direction in a general way. [[Eva Scars: Good. Good.]] Don't forget that. So I'm warning you now. [[Intercoms in the benches of Fidesz.]] Mr Sándor Szabó is coming from the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2023-06-16-198	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, First and foremost, they are pro-government colleagues. You have made a radical change in the Hungarian public education system in 2012: you have taken schools away from the local authorities with the aim of making them more successful, more effective and, otherwise, better public education. By centralising schools, setting up the KLIK, they have actually undertaken to provide the institutions with the necessary tools to provide teachers with the right conditions. Well, let's face it, it didn't quite work out. The Giga Centre, the KLIK, has failed in three years, has left a significant debt of 17 billion, and even your then minister, Mr Balog, the Minister of EMMI, has admitted that the bike has been pushed too far. In 2011, the Public Education Act, the new Public Education Act, was adopted. Paragraph 2 of Section 2 begins as follows:. Public education is a public service, which creates the conditions for the long-term development of Hungarian society in the interest of the growing generation, and the general framework and guarantees of which are provided by the state. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Well, ladies and gentlemen, we can say that you have broken your own law. They violated their own law by threatening teachers in the last year to pay them humiliatingly low salaries, by crushing their professional freedom on their feet, and also by not providing the necessary infrastructure in schools in all cases. We can also say that in the last 12 years the situation of Hungarian public education has not been improved, and we can even say that they have made it worse. It's a very bad mood in schools. There is a great deal of despair in schools, there is a great deal of uncertainty in schools, and in these circumstances teachers must go in every day and teach that the future generation is modern, XXI. Give him centuries of knowledge. The same law, this 2011 law, also stated that public education as a whole is determined by knowledge, justice, order, freedom and equity, moral and spiritual values of solidarity, equal treatment and education for sustainable development and healthy lifestyles. That's a nice word, isn't it, fellow Members? And how far are we from what is happening in Hungary today, especially in the field of public education! Teachers' salaries have been humiliatingly low for many years, while inflation is unprecedented at home and the population is hit by unprecedented price increases. They talk about fairness, solidarity and sustainable development, while today the wages of graduates are lower than those of skilled workers; of course, they do not harm honest workers here. Where is justice and freedom when teachers who protest for decent working conditions are being threatened or humiliated? They adopt laws to respect the rights of others while firing former teachers who dared to protest because of your failed education policy. The 2011 Education Act also stated that the main aim of this is to prevent social disruption and to provide talent with educational tools. Now, I ask you: how do you intend to achieve all this, when thousands of teachers and teachers are already missing from the Hungarian education and education system, and with the current status law, if Parliament accepts my wage without doubt, will it probably accept, presumably, another 5,000 leave the course, since 5,000 have deposited their resignations? How do you intend to achieve this if all over Europe Hungarian teachers are most overwhelmed, coupled with the fact that they may earn the least in the European Union? It must be said that today the policy of the past 12 years, based on centralisation, has caused a serious crisis in the Hungarian education system. The result of this has been what we see and see now, indeed, there are tens of thousands of protests, living chains and protests from Budapest to Miskolc and Szeged for a year now. In my constituency, there were several such movements in Szeged, where teachers stood up for themselves, where parents, students stood up for teachers, threats, blackmails, and firings. [[20.40]] Allow me to thank the teachers for all the sacrifices they do for the students, and thank them for standing up for themselves, for standing up for each other, for implementing a better education system. So whether it's KLIK, Klebelsberg Center or district, it's getting worse every year. Teachers' freedom is increasingly limited, while otherwise their salary is less and less. 13 percent of the classes are held by a teacher with inadequate qualifications, and you know it. Singing teachers, for example, teach chemistry or a history class for gym teachers. No wonder there are fewer and fewer teachers who choose the teaching career in these circumstances. The proportion of young educators has become appallingly low. More than 40 percent of teachers are over 50 years old, and only 7 percent of 20-29 year old teachers are in the entire teaching community. And we can also say that it is true that so few people have ever wanted to be teachers, as it is now, and the current process in the field of education does not make it beneficial for young people to choose this career. The wage increase is linked by the government to EU subsidies. I will ask you, as many of my opposition fellow Members have asked: why does the EU have a national government expect resources for education? What national government is it that says that it does not intend to take care of the future of children itself? What government is it that does not wish to solve the development, success and upbringing of the future generation on its own? Well, I'm telling you, he's weak and incompetent. Because every state, every national state, spends its own education, and you pay your own teachers, even in the declining West. They don't save on the future of young people here, they don't save on teachers' salaries. In Germany, six times, the many attacked in Brussels four times, in neighbouring Austria five times, but in Portugal, where the entire education system was actually rebuilt, even there, the wages of teachers are three times higher than in Hungary. Of course, they often say that living there is, of course, much more expensive. Well, I think, thanks to world champion inflation, that's not true anymore, because educators now buy for themselves almost cheaper than they do here. This, please, I think it's a shame and a disgrace. The problem of education can therefore no longer be swept under the rug, because the system has indeed fallen to the brink of collapse, and you, fellow Members of the Government, often see that they are not looking for solutions, but are threatening children in many cases, and they want to turn teachers into slaves. The status law before us would adversely affect teachers on several points and even negatively, so at present they want to hit them not only with the huge downsizing of their wage increases, but also with plans that fundamentally change their employment. They take away the status of public servant from teachers working in the public sector and instead introduce a new employment relationship, a public education employment relationship, which further reduces workers' rights and increases employers' rights. It is forbidden for teachers to give critical opinions on public education and to return disciplinary action to the system as a possible retaliation, so that no teacher will accidentally give an opinion on your failed educational policy. The professional autonomy of schools is decreasing, as powers such as the adoption of the pedagogical programme are transferred from the faculty to the teaching district. The powers of trade unions are also being reduced, the government is increasingly linking conciliation obligations to representativeness, and what else is included in this law could still be classified. In the draft status law, therefore, the worker is clearly vulnerable and placed in a dependent position. I believe that the draft, if it becomes a law, and it is likely to become a law, will also make the practice of abusive application general. Of course, the consequences of all this will be what we are already experiencing, as thousands of people will leave the teaching career, where there are still few, and even fewer will apply. It is a sin, my fellow Members, to consider teachers not to serve the community and to abolish their remaining rights. We can see the result of the government's foolish efforts in this, and we can see the teacher's career falling apart day by day. Generations will grow by the time the damage to all this destruction can be repaired. There is neither an alternative nor an alternative; this destruction, I think, must be brought to an end. And finally, allow me a letter from one of the teachers in my constituency. I would like to see you on Friday's parliamentary hearing of the Status Act, Congressman. I've been a so-called technical employee in public education for 29 years. Until 31 December 2012, I worked as a person and labour administrator. Unfortunately, I have no doubt that the ruling parties will cheat this law at all costs. In 2019, when the status change in vocational training occurred, I decided that if it was introduced in public education, I would no longer want to work in it, despite the fact that I thought I would retire from my current job. Many of us do not wish to be part of the system under the conditions set out in the draft law. That is my question, my comment. The draft law 158. Paragraph 8 of Article 8 specifies the amount of severance payments for employees who do not undertake the change of legal relationship. I find the terms in this very unfair, and I am not alone in my opinion. Since I am not a lawyer, I cannot judge how far this provision goes against the existing text of the law, the provisions on discrimination. Furthermore, in my view, the provision of the draft is also contrary to the provisions of the Law on the Status of Civil Servants. If my proposal is legally sound, and if you think so, please tell Parliament if you consider it worthy to mention all this in Parliament's debate, I would be happy to see, along with many of my colleagues, that these provisions of the draft law will change positively for us when the law is finally adopted. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I couldn't reassure her, and I can't reassure her, because I don't see the intention to amend this. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I'm asking you to pay the teachers properly. Do not threaten them and finally understand that they must be given greater respect, greater moral and material respect. And finally understand that, in addition to an immediate and fair wage increase, real professional freedom, better working conditions must be ensured, less pressure on teachers, students quality and XXI. It is necessary to provide centuries of knowledge, because investing in education is the key to the future. Thank you for listening.
u2023-06-16-199	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker would be Head of the Szabó Timea Group, but she is not present, so her speech should be considered withdrawn under the house rules. We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor first from the Fidesz Group to Member Gyula Tamás Szeberényi. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-06-16-200	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I think that if we are discussing a law, there are some basic things that could be clarified. The nature of the debate should be somewhat linked to the text of the law, and here the last speaker was a refreshing exception to me, since he has identified a specific place of legislation. Unfortunately, however, there were several speeches which did not meet this condition. Congresswoman Olga Kálmán, with her telephone storyteller's invention, presented a very sensitive story that had nothing to do with the law; it was obviously with her idea, and with opposition ideas, but in order to be able to argue about it, she should at least suggest that this is what this is all about. Congresswoman Eva Sebők did the same thing. I couldn't decide whether he was such a good actor or had no idea of the law, only the defilement of the Fidesz and KDNP representatives, because he didn't say anything about the law, he outlined a vision, which, in our opinion, has nothing to do with reality, but we can't relate to it, we can't argue with it, because he didn't give us any clues about what he was starting from and why he thinks that way. Earlier, István Hiller also had a speech, and I think it is very positive because he said that it is a political basis for him not to be a political action. It is a pity that he is the only one on that site, and his thoughts are very thoughtful and very valuable thoughts, but they have nothing to do with the law, they can be mentioned in the NAT, and they have to be written there, these principles must be enforced there, unfortunately there is no connection to this debate in any way. So I think it would be good if we talked about the law, and then we could have a dialogue about it, a debate about it. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[20.50]]
u2023-06-16-201	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Ágnes Kunhalmi is not present, Mónika Dunai is not present, their speech must also be considered withdrawn. A two-minute speech from the Jobbik Group will be followed by Mr Brenner Koloman. Here you go.
u2023-06-16-202	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As a responsible national party, Jobbik-Conservatives could imagine a professional status for Hungarian educators without further ado, if this professional status would involve additional rights compared to the current status of civil servant and the social and material respect that we consider to be due to Hungarian teachers, whom we, unlike you, respectable fellow Members of the Fidesz, consider not to be dismissed but to be responsible intellectuals. The other one is a particularly big problem with this status law, apart from the fact that it would contain additional rights and value for teachers, but on the contrary; so the other is that although the educator is the key player in the education system, we believe in the comprehensive modernisation of the Hungarian education system and in a holistic approach from the kindergarten to the university, and not disintegrating the system of Hungarian education between three and four ministries, as you should have done a long time ago with a conservative turn in Klebelsberg where we conservatives believe that we are not 6 which we are now away from, but in a few years we should have spent 8 percent on education. Because education, knowledge, is the only thing that is XXI. In the 20th century, it could provide Hungarian citizens with the well-being and a growing life that we believe they deserve in a Member State of the European Union in the 21st century. In the century. There is no such ambition in your education policy. Now, that's the biggest problem with this status law, that it doesn't respond in any way, so it would be best to withdraw it. Thank you for your attention.
u2023-06-16-203	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next two-minute speaker from the DK Group is Mrs Kálmán Olga. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-06-16-204	Thank you for the floor. We have finally heard Congressman Tamás Szeberényi. I suggest that my tone of voice, rather than my tone, should focus on the content next time, we might get a little closer to the truth. Mr László Pósán said a few hours ago that he did not understand why the opposition called this law a vengeance law. Well, it is! You want to silence the teachers. [[Intercoms in the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] "They want to intimidate teachers, and, you know, I have been thinking about what Congressman László Pósán also said that 60% of the proposals have been included in the text of the law. The trade unions say that this was simply not the case, because in the submitted 164-page bill there are a number of drafting changes compared to the original, but they did not touch the substance, or they took out texts that were already known to be unrealistic in practice. Now, that's the 60 percent amendment. You know, you're mostly moms, dads, parents. Are you satisfied with the quality and quality of Hungarian education? Don't you feel that your children's load and burden have exceeded the desired level? Is it okay for you if the Hungarian teacher teaches physics or math? Are you really saying that everything is okay with education? Isn't there a teacher's shortage? You're gonna deny that, too? And they're still kicking one in the pedagogical community when they say that we have passed a brilliant law, a better law, a law designed to improve their lives, their circumstances, and they don't want it? Well, isn't anything good for them? ! Do they still only humiliate teachers? Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2023-06-16-205	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr László Pósán will only be able to speak in the next round of speakers. This is Congresswoman Eva Scars, from Momentum. Here you go.
u2023-06-16-206	Thank you very much. Now that Mr. Seberényi has spoken to me, I would react quickly. I'm basically a laborer, and I'm from Peaceful County. In Békés County, last year, the AKG was destroyed, which was a large employer, just announced the group layoffs of the Guardian and are constantly sending people away from Cerlux. You are working on an educational and economic model that seeks to provide workers with vulnerable sectors of this type. To the great enthusiasm of your friend Parragh, you are trying to turn Hungarian youth into single-use workers. That's what I've spoken about, and that's what the law that's in front of us is speeding up. And by the way, every time I look at you, it reminds me that you're the Dumpster Vice Mayor who couldn't solve Kecskemét's trash situation for years. [[Dr. Gyula Szeberényi Tamás intervenes.]] I can't take what you're telling me seriously. Thank you very much. [[Interviews in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2023-06-16-207	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next round of speakers will be held. I give the floor first from the DK Group to Mr Zsolt Gréczy. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-06-16-208	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, There are thousands of people standing in Kossuth Square, and if anyone thinks that these many people have come from different parts of the country, because the rogue opposition, which, going into the barge of the West and representing the villain imperialists, has ordered them here to protest against a fantastic educational law; I have just quoted you, by the way, but these texts, which you say, were the last words to be used by you in the National Assembly in 1952, which are usually used by our Western European allies, who, by the way, are so eager to receive the EU's support, but they do not realize that they are always pushing Hungary a little further away from EU funds with each such voice. But I would also draw attention to the fact that today is an historic date. 16 June is the day of the execution and re-mortem of Imre Nagy and his martyrs. [[Németh Szilárd István: And the day of nationalization of church schools!]] Today, 34 years ago, the country recreated the martyr Prime Minister, and it was a fantastic and uplifting moment, because in the change of regime, I think there was a kind of national unity, and a lot of people hoped that Hungary would start on a new, democratic, free, European road, and now we know that the Orbán government and Fidesz together with KDNP have betrayed this path. Hungary has lost its allies in Europe thanks to the Orbán government, Fidesz and KDNP, and the sentence of Viktor Orbán that the Hungarian youth has been lying in the sixth coffin for 20 years has unfortunately been true. [[Dr. László Pósán: Fifth!]] This is the case, indeed, that Hungarian young people are looking forward to making their lives better in a totally hopeless situation. This educational law, which you have just submitted, is really about revenge, and it is about leaving the issue of Hungarian education to a police minister, a Minister of the Interior, instead of teaching professionals, and they believe that what goes on in the police force will work in the teachers as well. Well, it's not gonna work. You can see that now. The situation is truly catastrophic. We often find in our debates that opposition representatives are better off not speaking, because they were alive before 2010 and they also led educational wallets and had educational politicians. [[Scars to the intervention of Eve:]] Well, it's gonna be tough, by the way, if you're proud that he's not. So, I think that what happened in Hungarian education before 2010 is nothing to be ashamed of. Before 2010, there were more teachers in Hungarian education than at present. More people went to college. There was less general pressure on teachers and students. There was a free textbook choice. [[21.00]] You have introduced a brutal tuition fee in higher education. The previous government was beaten and beaten, even a referendum was invented in order to introduce tuition. Today, at ELTE's Faculty of Philosophy, half a year costs 300 thousand forints, one year 600 thousand forints, and five years 2.5 million forints. [[Sic!]] I think that the person who introduced tuition fees was the Orbán government in Hungary. In addition, in that period, before 2010, we built six new university centres, including Corvinus, SOTE, Szeged, and so on and so on, we have renovated hundreds of schools, which are also in the period of that government. In addition, even on wages, I think there is something to be done. In 2002, in the last year of the first Orbán government, the average salary of teachers was HUF 42 700 and HUF 122 000 in 2010. I would like to point out that the wages of teachers have increased significantly in the eight years that we governed. The current situation and this law are also tragic because it raises the question of what will happen to Hungary's future. Here are these young people, who are 16-17-18 years old today, and the drama is not only that they will vote in 2026 and we can only trust that they will still be here and vote and give their views on this government, but more than half of the high school students surveyed say to the Commissioner who asked them that he wants to leave this country. I am asking my fellow pro-government Members to assess what this means. We have already lost 600,000 Hungarians since 2010, who have left this country. More and more young people are leaving and looking for prosperity in Western Europe. Of course, none of them are looking for their future towards the Turk Council, or perhaps they are hoping for an eastern turn, but they are going to Holland, Germany, England, Austria, and so on. The consequences of this are dramatic. This is because, among other things, Hungarian education is in such a dire situation during your governance. If a young person leaves this country today after graduation and says that he is going to go to university abroad, we might as well be happy about this, because his horizons are broadening, learning a language and trusting him to come home in general. But these young people don't want to come home anymore. They tell their parents that they cannot live in this country, there is no chance in this country, for example, of getting a place to live, because they can't earn enough money from starting wages and salaries, so that even with an apartment loan, there is a record of housing interest rates. What hope do you have for a high school youth today who wants to live here in this country if they collect brutal tuition from him at university? If a student wants to be a teacher, he is in a position in Hungarian higher education that almost no one else wants to apply to a physics or chemistry teacher, usually in the real world. This shame also occurred under the Orbán government, just last year, that they simply do not apply for teaching classes. And what is in the faculty is an example of today's interview. András Juhász, director of the József Attila High School, famous and well-respected in NewBuda, gave a comment on today's press product. Literally, I quote: In two or three years' time, I'm afraid we'll say how good the situation was in September 2023. It's not a school that's gonna be completely out of control in the near future because of the resignations. I know of an institution in New Buda where eight people have stood up so far, but the real blow will be if, in the course of the year, those who have now decided to wait until September. So far, four people have reported their resignations. It is very important how old teachers are who reported their resignation. We are talking about 26, 27, 41 and 42-year-old teachers, two Hungarian and two mathematics teachers. Many of them say goodbye to the field, says the director of Attila József High School, as they could not work under the status law and the new rating system. One of them continues to work in a church institution, and the gap they leave behind is extended by a fifth retired educator. We are in a better position than the national average, which is why, although many are desperate, only four have submitted their resignations. It's mostly young and middle-aged people who can still build a new career. The situation has been catastrophic for a long time, and although the government has undertaken to increase the attractiveness of the teaching profession in the EFOP Plus programme to the EU, the status law and the new rating system, which is as bad as the current one from a professional point of view, is much more damaging, it will make the situation worse. If no one signs up for the jobs announced by September, I will have no choice but to distribute the classes among the existing teachers, raising their hours to a maximum of 26 or higher, as this is also possible on paper. Several math teachers said that at that moment they would submit their resignations, so this solution is counterproductive, because it will generate even greater teacher shortages. Plus, students lose with it, because it's a way of saying good-bye to group break-ups and talent management. If we add that 59 percent of teachers in our school are over 50 years of age, 15 percent are over 60 years of age, so we will certainly lose a significant part of them in a few years, the situation will be even worse. There are several factors that make things worse, and there is nothing that would suggest an improvement. If I'd seen what I'd signed up for 11 years ago, I certainly wouldn't be applying for the principal's seat. No one expected the situation to come to this. Gradually, he became a worse teacher and a worse director, but he's never been so desperate. It's like a crazy, blind driver chasing horses into the ravine, telling people how not to get excited because the cart's running. And it's only inches away from the ravine. I do not expect mass school closures, but it is expected that the school will become an increasingly lousy place to keep children, where the physical teacher or the Hungarian teacher will go to teach math. And if we look further into the future, this raises the question of who will build houses and heal people. If there is no adequate secondary schooling, it will soon reach universities and grow into a global social problem that is already thought of in the 21st century. In the century. If the masses of young people are socialized in this lack of perspective, they will leave the country in a mass. I think that these words are considered, rightly dramatic, and describe very precisely how a director thinks in a school in a civil environment. So not in a remote area, in a small area, a village school teacher complains, but in a civic environment, the director of a prestigious and well-known high school. The situation is critical. I understand that the Fidesz and KDNP MEPs in this situation are also supposed to make fun of everything, throw something at opposition representatives, as if they didn't know how to do it, only you know the sure solution to what to do, but in the meantime you know and understand exactly what the problem is. I can't believe the question between you and the 135 very brave people is whether we're going in the right direction. It can't be that many people complaining, it can't be all Soros and Gyurcsány and I don't know who they are. Complaining comes from everywhere you go in the country when it comes to teachers and students. And imagine the situation where a 20-year-old kid gets on a plane and the family sits at the airport and sees that this child won't be coming back, not in years. She's gonna find her love-lem, she's gonna finish her school outside, she's gonna get married out there, her kids are gonna be born there, she's not gonna come home for Christmas, and by the way, she's gonna be checking in on Skype every once in a while to say hi, hi, wave to grandma, and the kid's gonna wonder what an interesting exotic language Grandma speaks, because she might not even learn English. [[21.10]] This is where your education policy leads. And don't tell me you don't have that kind of problem, you don't have that kind of acquaintance. I see sobbing grandmothers, and I see worried parents everywhere I go, and it's not because I'm being approached about this, and I'm sure it's because I'm about to find some people to complain about. I'm sure you guys have friends, acquaintances, and you're asking me if the kid's gone, what I'm gonna do, he's not gonna come back. This is the real drama of Hungary. You've lived up to the future. At Karcagra, they're building a stadium for $7 billion. For $7 billion, they're scratching! Why? From that 7 billion, anything could have been made, even in Hungarian education, or for teaching Hungarian, or helping some schools, or starting some scholarship programs, anything could have been done, except building a Karcagon stadium for 7 billion, Karcag, which is not in the Hungarian football map, but very fidesze. Why? ! We have Hungary in drama, please note, fellow Members. And not because the opposition is whining and screaming, but because there really is a terrible problem. Come to your senses. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause for the opposition.]]
u2023-06-16-209	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Momentum Group is Mr András Fekete-Győr. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-06-16-210	Thank you very much. Good evening. I came to the House from outside the walls of Parliament [[Interjections and clarity in the pro-government ranks.]] , outside the walls of Parliament on Kossuth Lajos Square, in the national square... I don't know what's so ridiculous about teachers, teachers, young people and their parents who protest outside, but I keep it rather pathetic, what is still going on in this House and in this Chamber. We have been the participants of this House for a year, who were born around 89, and we have come to this world with much greater hopes, and we see that more than thirty years later, the government, which is leading Hungary and calling itself right-wing conservative, does not realize that the future of the Hungarian nation, the pledge of its future, would be well-educated heads of people, students and Hungarians who took quality knowledge. Out here outside the walls of Parliament, I met a female teacher, about 40 years old, who worked in kindergarten, who worked very small for many years. He no longer works in this XVII. In district preschool, he had to quit too, look for a new job. We talk a lot about schools, we talk less about kindergartens, and there are also catastrophic situations. I've been asked by teachers, students and parents out there to bring their voices to you, bring their drama, their pain, their requests, their reality. And in doing so, I have selected from letters, selected entries written and formulated by teachers to you, the political elite that governs Hungary. I will now read an open letter from a teacher who does not identify her name, which she addressed to Viktor Orbán. Mr. Prime Minister. I understand your mother used to be a teacher. That's why I'm writing you these lines to see if you can at least read them out of respect for your mother and think about it. In July 2021, my cherished dream came true: I finally received my master's degree in teaching. I became a high school teacher with six years of university education. In comparison, law school is only five years. Of course, now that I'm done, it'll cut it down to five years, but it won't do me much good. Just like every young teacher under the age of 25 is slipping out of tax relief, because by the time they finish school, they're turning 25. With a master's degree in two majors, two language exams and a tremendous enthusiasm, I entered the field. Of course, I always knew that as a teacher, I would not be rich, but I never wanted any luxury; all I wanted was a calm, decent life. When I finished college, the black soup came: I had to move out of college. While in the dorm, I had 15,000 forints a month of housing with rent, now as a starting teacher, I am threatened with homelessness. Unfortunately, I can't move back in with my parents because there are still four people living in a room and a half with my two sisters. So, I tried looking for a teaching job with a service apartment. Unfortunately, it wasn't even announced in the neighbouring counties, so I stayed in my hometown, Budapest, but I moved to an outside district during my college move. In 2021, the net salary of a teacher with a master's degree is 145 thousand forints, with an additional 15 000 forints. From this, I was able to solve housing by moving in with 55,000 extra rent roommates. Yeah, except adult, working people don't usually move in with strangers anymore, so all I could find were college roommates. It was about three or four days a week when the party was at least 2:00 a.m., even though I asked them to keep it down, because I have to leave at 6:30 to be at school at 7:30. When the warden said I wasn't supposed to walk around like an undead, I had to change. I found a moldy hole called a 17-square-square-square-foot apartment for 70,000 a month. This is an incredible price in Budapest, as most one-room apartments also start at 110,000. But my rent has a huge disadvantage: here in the basement there is no heating, only electric, which this winter is pushing the rent so hard that it's around 50,000 a month and it's only 19-20 degrees in the room. So out of my $160,000 salary, 120,000 goes to the apartment. I have to make a living with the other 40,000: eating, dressing, crowding, showering, toothpaste, medicine, everything else. I'll tell you what it's like to be a teacher starting in Hungary today. I lost my hair dryer over a month ago, but I can't buy a new one. Before Christmas, I had to discuss it with my friends, my family, so they wouldn't prepare anything for me, because I'm in no position to buy gifts for anyone. I live almost exclusively on empty pasta, rice, because I can't afford anything else, no matter how much I save. I used to pick up a toilet paper from a teacher's toilet because I didn't have the money to buy it at home. My only boot looks like a homeless guy, but I don't have any money again. Once upon a time, I went to an exhibition opening just so I could have a nice meal there with scones. If there was an unexpected big expense coming into my life right now, the greater in my case would mean more than 20,000 forints, I wouldn't be able to solve it, or I would be on the street. In addition, I should give me a picture of a well-balanced teacher at school; when every minute I'm terrified of my life, how to survive without money. When I teach 7.45 a.m., I'm usually at school until 14.05, if I keep faculty, I'll be back for 16 hours, then I'll be ready for at least four or five hours a day. As a starter, there can be no other way, because there are no proven, tested tasks yet, everything has to be done for the first time. It is not just the hours that a teacher has spent: there are preparations for lessons, compilation of papers, repair of papers, a lot of administration, parenting meetings, reception hours, corridor duty, a lot of replacements, which are, of course, six, thirty times a week, unpaid, children's monitoring programmes outside the working hours, preparation and training of school programmes, of course, outside the working hours. I wrote it down once for a week: I had 57 hours in my school and school-related duties in a week. I get a salary of 160 grand a month for 57 hours a week. This is a net fee of HUF 701 per hour. As teachers, we don't get any help. No clothes, no year-end rewards, no cafeteria, no extra benefits in the world. There's nothing social security under me, even though I work my heart and soul in it, I'm balancing on the edge of homelessness. In the grocery stores, which was 500 forints this time last year, that is now 700 forints. As of 2022, almost everyone's salary is up 20 percent, except teachers, we get a 10-percent bonus increase. Why is my job as a high school teacher so low? A cradle worker at the same level of education receives 100,000 HUF more for his work. Why? Why is a railroad driver, bus driver, office worker also working for the state worth so much more than teachers? [[21.20]] Mr. Prime Minister, Your mother also worked as a teacher. If your mother were a young teacher now, would you also be sorry for her salary for a decent living? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, This is where the letter ends. A teacher who also kept his name a secret said the following. I haven't given up yet, but I'm living one of the great crises of my professional life and even of my life. You have all been informed about the new bill to change the status of teachers working as civil servants. You have also learned that this means that the legal conditions of our work are seriously, almost criminally difficult. Come on, it's just another humiliation for the nation's day laborers. Why should we be content with this comparison? Is it because of the romance of the Horthy era? Let's all learn our place. As a teacher, I claim to be a world-sensing, somewhat understanding, free intellectual man. That's what I've seen, learned from my ancestors, this is what I have to pass on, the love of interest, creativity, humanity. I'm telling you, without any nonsense, the school was designed for me. I love teaching, I love my students, I love the environment, and they like me. That's what I feel, I know. That's what took you so long on the field. If I look at the employer's side, I have to admit that I've had to use outside help for two years because I just couldn't handle thread. I couldn't stand the bureaucratic monster called the district blaming us, and we're the ones who have to wash out of it. I couldn't stand the fact that any politician called a honata for that fifteen-minute reputation in Warhol would wipe his foot in us whenever, for whatever reason. Do you have any idea what it's like to watch the news, go up to the news portal, and face what they're slandering us for? I couldn't stand the fact that the people of my country, who I work for, consider me a freeloader and to quote them, would even take what I've been given. I couldn't swallow the way they threw it in my face so that I wouldn't be political about my work, expressing my opinion on matters concerning the future of my own and taught children, and then giving me up as a non-politicist. I could continue the line for a long time, and when I think it's over, they can't show me anything new in inhumanity, incompetence, and incompetence, they just come up with something new. Tell me, why do you have to pack a whole series of revenge measures into the hidden, probably non-existent wage arrangement? What does EU money have to do with financing an independent country's education system? Why does it seem that the school district directors are inviolable and that the law is violated and trampled as you please? Why have schools been eliminated on grounds of inequality while ten years later we are in the same place? If they're so centralized, why leave us alone in crisis situations? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Bálint Tuli wrote the following letter in a geography history course graduated in 2021: I went to college for six years to become a teacher in my old dream. Yet, on my graduation day, I knew that I would not be able to do so in Hungary. How can I teach in a country where non-professionals decide the curriculum; where the same person instructs the policeman and the teacher in the absence of the Ministry of Education; where, with a starting teacher's salary, even an average sublet in Budapest cannot be maintained; where there are textbooks full of Russian and homophobic propaganda; where students and teachers are beaten on the streets? I have few classmates left on the field after graduation, but I still get monthly news about which of them is leaving public education for good. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Nándi said good-bye to his vocation with the following letter: * Dear Friends! Colleagues in kind education! After a lot of philosophy and procrastination, I'm leaving my profession, kindergarten education. My heart is bleeding. It bleeds that the least judgmental, always open-hearted, every minute of every day, I leave the children bringing sunshine into my soul. I'm leaving them. Because I was forced to leave him. I've waited six years to get a chance to have a vision. Now I'm tired of waiting. I'm tired of not being what the kids see me for, who I feel I am, who I am. It hurts me that as a teacher, I don't get to think about my own family. Two years ago, I was planning to prepare my exit. I've been learning new things ever since. New perspectives have been opened. I feel like I'm prepared to try something else because I have a lot of knowledge, motivation and ambition that I haven't been able to get enough out of the last six years of public education. I can't bear the burden of the system any longer. I'll leave a piece of my heart with the kids in my group. I wish all my teachers and my colleagues in pedagogical work to endure. You're superheroes! I'm sorry, I'm sorry, And since I only have ten seconds left, it is, indeed, superheroes who protest outside, who have raised their voices for the freedom of education in many parts of the country, have raised their voices so that a self-respecting government does not expect EU money but supports those teachers with the money of Hungarian taxpayers. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] who will raise our children, our grandchildren and our offspring for Hungary. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the lines of DK, Momentum, Dialogue, MSZP.]]
u2023-06-16-211	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Ms Zita Gurmai. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-06-16-212	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Mr. Secretary. I turn to the Fidesz fraction, and I ask what it feels like to be deliberately evil. Do they enjoy or are they ashamed? [[It's an interrogation from the ruling parties.]] Because the Fidesz government knows exactly that the status law is an evil act that harms teachers and harms students. You are about to adopt a deliberately harmful law, and you are aware of that. You know this, as you know, because this building has been sealed for today so that no one but the Members can enter. They shut it down because they know what we're talking about today is protesting by crowds. With this lock-in, you admit to knowing what a shame you're doing. Where's the consultation heat now? Where is it that we ask the Hungarian people? I'm gonna ask some of the Fidesz congressmen who are here. That's what you guys swore to do? [[Nacsa Lőrinc: There are fewer of you than we are!]] They swore they'd lock themselves up cowardly and make harmful laws? Shame on you! To tell you the truth, it was very difficult to prepare for this speech, not professionally, but humanly difficult. Because talking about the consultation law is like discussing the details of a premeditated crime. What I should be saying now is that I should suggest that we do something else that you Fidesz invented. It's like we're talking about getting hit in the head or getting screwed. No, you don't! This law, from beginning to end, is a disgrace that we only have one proposal for, to be removed, and not even a memory. The MSZP does not support this bill under any circumstances. We do not support a law the final text of which has not been received by any trade union before its submission. Fidesz didn't even inform teachers' advocacy organisations when this bill would be submitted. Was that the big meeting? Or did Sándor Pintér even forbid teachers and students taken with them as experts to speak at the interparty meeting? Dear fellow Members, You are constantly upset that Brussels is not sending money because it objects to the rule of law in Hungary. I would like to note it quietly: in Brussels, they are thinking of such procedures. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: How well you know!]] You, the Fidesz government, are the ones that are preventing the payment of EU money by such measures. You say that there has been a professional consultation. Looks like in your dictionary, tear gas and conciliation are related traffic. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Says an MSZP!]] [[21.30]] Gergely Gulyás, in a former Government Info, said that a good status law should serve education, quality and children's interests. Well, let's see how this law serves the good of the students. This law is destroying the school psychology system. Earlier, a full-time school educator, a school psychologist, came to 500 students, and now only a half-time professional has to do the same job for the children? Is it in the interest of students to make the situation of children with multiple disadvantages and special needs more serious? Or is it in the best interest of students to send their teachers from one school to another? Will it increase the level of education if another teacher keeps the class? Or is it in the student's best interest to lose his favorite teacher at any time? What does the Fidesz government know about the importance of permanence in the lives of students? You didn't care about this, because the status law also allows up to half of the faculty teachers. What professional work is possible in such faculty? I'll tell you: none. But you don't care. All you see is that there is a need to tackle the shortage of teachers. And I'm telling you, maybe you shouldn't drive teachers off the field, 'cause this tickle-dick with teachers passing over doesn't solve anything. It's like Fidesz trying to patch up a leaked ship by picking up boards from other parts of the ship. Notice that this ship is going to sink like this. This transfer is only good for Sándor Pintér to mess with the professional and private lives of teachers. This exercise will mean disintegrating faculty bodies, even frustrated educators, and in the end, even more disenfranchised teachers. In English: education is collapsing, the ship is sinking. But let's continue to see what you think is in the best interest of the children. The performance-based pay system introduced by the Status Act gives less points for catching up children with learning problems than, say, the organisation of some extracurricular programmes. Thus, a child with a learning problem can expect that the school will be even less able to solve the catch-up than it has been before. Is that in the best interest of the students? But this isn't over. The Fidesz cynically says that with the status law, it'll be better for teachers. Let's see. The extension of internship and the shortening of acquittal periods create uncertainty about working and harm to the people concerned financially. There will be less severance pay for teachers who do not accept that they no longer have to work as civil servants. Teachers can be transferred to another job for up to nine months. As regards the SZMSZ and the pedagogical programme, the right to vote of the educational bodies will be terminated, as it will be placed within its maintenance competence; the teaching bodies will have to ask for their opinion. Disciplinary proceedings against teachers can be reopened, and even in the future an extraordinary dismissal of teachers will not require the agreement of the director of the public education institution. It is quite clear that the latter was designed to limit the opinion of teachers. Well, are these the rules that make teachers happy, which the Fidesz MEPs dare to talk about only when they are locked up in Parliament? Of course, the one who's here. It is no coincidence that thousands of teachers indicated that they would resign if the law was introduced. And there's a reason I said at the beginning of my speech that the status law is like a premeditated crime: deliberately a set of evil and damaging measures. Fidesz wants to commit a crime against the future of Hungarian youth, that is, Hungary's prosperity, because the destruction of education means destroying the development of our nation. All the elements of this bill are lies. It does not contain any provisions concerning the pedagogical career nor does it outline any advanced or predictable career. There is no professional appreciation in the Status Act, and I suggest that the salary increase should not be mentioned either, because it is an obvious lie that this law would provide a salary increase of HUF 800,000. This is as much a lie as the need for EU funds to raise salaries for teachers. After all this, as I have already indicated, the MSZP does not support this outrageous bill under any circumstances. The MSZP faction calls on the government to withdraw the bill and submit a forward-looking, XXI after a wide-ranging, genuine social consultation. a proposal for modern education worthy of the century. And this does not require a status law; real, forward-looking changes in education can be achieved without changing status. The MSZP does not support a bill to regulate teachers, students and parents. However, if the Fidesz-KDNP does vote in favour of the status law, the MSZP will fight with all its might to put an end to this harmful law that destroys the country's future, because it is in our country's interest. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the benches of MSZP and DK.]]
u2023-06-16-213	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker from the Dialogue Group, Congressman Bence Tordai, would like to take your turn.
u2023-06-16-214	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, I don't know who else is on speaker at Kossuth Square; if so, hello, protestors! [[He's waving.]] 'Cause I'm from there, and I'd like to share my experience there with you. I think what we, Members, have to do is represent the interests, opinions, fears, concerns, criticisms and questions of those involved, bring them here to the Parliament, and, well, there have been plenty of them. If they really believed in the negotiation, they would have at least had the courage to walk out here in the hallway, open the window, listen to those speakers who have told their own personal stories, or a well-founded criticism of the profession that is involved in their law of vengeance. They weren't just teachers, they were representatives of other professions. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Party!]] Because solidarity works in an interesting way. I know this is a completely unpleasant and unknown concept for you, but believe me, some part of Hungarian society has not yet completely lost its solidarity, even though you are working on it. And I must also tell you that the protestors were very angry, and they were right to be angry, because they are right; they are right in all what they say; and they are also right that you do not want to hear this. If you were really as brave as Lőrinc Mészáros says you would be if you were as brave as Viktor Orbán refers to you to press the "yes" button in the worst bill proposals, then you could have been brave enough to come out to the square, and then consult the protestors there, ask them how this law would affect them. But here's the good news: they're still there. So if you're not so brave... [[Nacsa Lawrence: No!]] No? Oh, dear fellow Member Nacsa, I'll find you more protestors there, we'll go out together. [[Róbert Szigó: It's late! Nacsa Lárinc: Not with you!]] I know you're scared, but I promise you here in public that you won't get hurt. [[Intercoms. The president's ringing the bell.]] They won't be harmed. Calm down. We'll go out holding arms, hand in hand, if you'll calm down and not be afraid. [[Demercation from the benches of opposition parties.]] And then I'll explain to the angry young people and less young people that you're coming here to hear firsthand what's wrong with your law of vengeance. So it would be instructive, and if there is still room for manoeuvre, because I can see here that the brilliant, sudden pop-up amendment proposals of the pro-government factions are immediately received, and they support each other in the fantastic ideas, not 22-26, but let's say 24, because it is possible to deviate from such hours up to 110 per cent, 48 hours, 56 hours, 60 per week, who knows, then they might bring in a little more lifelong experience in this legislative process. Obviously, if this is not a goal, as it is not intended, that if they do not want a good education, as it seems they do not want a good education, that if they really just want revenge, then they are doing well, of course, so we really manage to humiliate the entire educator society, cripple the public education system, the students, children in it, and indirectly frustrate their parents. So if that's the way it is, they're doing it very well. [[21.40]] Only then, and now I say this in part with the Klebelsberg principles as a critical left-winger, but as a green one, that name should be removed from your centralized power institution's board. So, if there were a little good intentions in you, if you hadn't wanted to make it worse in all aspects of education, you certainly wouldn't have submitted this amendment. It's even better to leave it as it is now, this unfortunate public education, and it's been damaged quite a lot. I had a very instructive interview, and one of Fidesz's propaganda televisions caught me with a propagandaist called an otherwise scam journalist and asked me what I didn't like in this law, and I thought, "Okay, let's go over what you don't like." And what you really need to see is that there's no direction that would be good. This unfortunate little propaganda worker was trying to bring in the area that they believe is the strongest element of this vengeance law, and to which so many times they refer, the recognition of performance with wonderful wages. I asked him what kind of pay is recorded in this law, what is the lower category marked in this 250-percent zone? Secretary of State, 400 thousand forints, right? So it's not 800, it's 400 thousand forints. I don't think that's gonna make any of the teachers work their ankles together. This is not the 800,000 forints they promise, which still does not reach the average fee for teachers. So that's half the 800 in full. And here comes our fellow Member Nacsa with these unprecedented wage increases. So when inflation is at 25 percent, they bring in a 10% wage increase, and they have a face to tell us how much they've raised teachers' wages. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: I didn't say that!]] That's what he said about how much he was raised. I'm listening. The problem is that I pay too much attention to you, while we should not be dealing with this a long time ago, as you are apparently not really interested in professional reflection, substantive criticism, constructive criticism, guidance, but only about how to squeeze one more on the press. I don't know what the plan is for when the next 5,000 teachers go out, and another 5,000 teachers, and fewer and fewer of them come out, while 10,000 people grow old in the profession, which has a chorus of respect and appreciation for the work of older, more experienced educators, but, well, the chorus looks like [[Shows by hand:]] Something like that. It's gonna fall. Older generations are spinning out, and your children and grandchildren will be taught? So, do you have a saying for this, my dear, dear Secretary of State? Do you? He smiles and nods so comfortably. Oh, I envy your optimism. They don't have a solution, they don't have a saying. Very proudly smiling, nodding lead the country's chariot towards the ravine... [[Robert Szigó: It doesn't matter!]] What's up? [[Robert Szigó: You are no longer on speaker...! The president's ringing the bell. Szabó Timea: Stop talking...!]] I'm curious. So, if there's an interrogation from the pro-government representatives...
u2023-06-16-215	Congressman! Don't be curious. Say your own. [[It's an interrogation from the dialogue. Defiance.]]
u2023-06-16-216	Don't be curious?
u2023-06-16-217	He's saying his own.
u2023-06-16-218	Mr. President. The least you can do is think of it as a criticism of the meeting, not a criticism, but we, as a result of our name, believe in dialogue. [[Defiance in the ranks of Fidesz.]] I am very pleased if, for the time being, the pro-government fellow Members have succeeded in saying something of substance, but so far they have not succeeded. So the thing is that we are paying close attention to the problem of Congressman Nacsa, we are paying too much attention to you, and yet we are not hearing anything that is forward-looking. Really, let me show you what life is like, how desperate it is for teachers. After my fellow Member, András Fekete-Győr, I will also read an open letter, a post that has become known in social media, perhaps you will understand what personal tragedies, what terrible, years-long hesitation and dilemma your own education policy brings to those teachers who are committed to their profession and to children, who end up getting more and more people to throw in the towel. I quote from Berta Bea's resignation: Today, after 23 years of teaching, I submitted my resignation. This decision is a direct consequence of the events of the past period. The firing of my colleagues, the performance-based pay in January, and the last drop of the regulation, which made civil disobedience possible until the end of the school year, until early August, were announced. These have made it clear to me that education management has not heard anything from the teachers' struggle for a year of real years for the dignity of themselves and of our students, for the measures necessary for education, for humanity and effectiveness. I think there's nothing I can do about this case, but maybe I can do it from the outside. I don't give up easily on things that are important to me, I don't give up easily on people, things that are important to me. But the point came when I faced the fact that I did everything within the system. The case is common, and this should allow me to feel that in my current situation I went to the wall, i.e. within school to the limit of action. If the case is common, there must be many who, if they have not done so before, start to act within or out of the institution. That's what solidarity and unity mean to me. I don't have a new job, I didn't have a plan B, and as long as I'm inside, it won't, because I'm busy doing what I like to do: teaching. But for some time now, I have felt impossible to do this:, I can deliver the material, but I can teach, raise, set an example for students in these circumstances, because I also need my self-esteem to do so. Based on the terms of my resignation, I'm expected to work until mid-March, during which time I have the opportunity to close my business, sort everything out, especially with the people I owe it to: my students. My decision has calmed me down because I think that teaching is most exemplary, and now I can set the example that I think is most important: if you are not appreciated somewhere, if your opinion does not matter, if you are humiliated, because they think they can, then don't tolerate me quietly, but stand up and get out of there. Thank you for all the support we've received recently from students, parents and strangers. I hope I can find a way to repay you for all this. Because silence is not order! I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Another letter of resignation from the public: * Dear Friends! Today I renounced my status as a public servant in Budapest VIII. District Mihály Vörösmarty High School. You can read my resignation statement below. The entry is public, I consent to its sharing. Dear Head of Institution Woman, Dear Director of the District of Education, Mrs. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Minister, I'm Gábor Kostra, math history high school teacher. I have been teaching in a state institution since 2005, since 2008 in Budapest VIII. I'm doing it in the district of Mihály Vörösmarty High School. Today I renounce my status as a public servant and thus quit the part of Hungarian education maintained by the Ministry of the Interior. I wish to share with you the reasons for my resignation. My resignation is not due to my low wages, which, in my opinion, do not reflect the quality and value of my work. For the past 17 years, I have never felt that my wages are adequate for my knowledge and the value of my work, so that hasn't affected my current decision. My resignation is not due to the heavy workload. I've always taught my students that without work, there's no result. I've never jumped away from any task, and I've tried to do every task as best I can in the light of my available energies, regardless of the amount of work I've done, so it hasn't affected my current decision. My resignation is not due to the amendment of the strike law. I am convinced that in an intellectual profession like teaching, it is bad, if the intention of the strike even arises. If state leaders and educators treat each other as partners, constructively, with respect to other aspects and difficulties, they cannot resolve disputes in a satisfactory manner, this does not have the right framework and forums, it is a crisis that no strike can help. This is also the reason why I did not participate in these protests either as a striker or as a civilian disobedience. When I formed the government, I felt bad that the Ministry of the Interior was under my institution and the entire sector. The message value of this was a cause for concern [[how different it would have been if education had been organised under the Ministry of Culture and Innovation]] . However, as I am a teacher starting all students with a clean slate, I have come to the conclusion here that we should look at how the Minister for Education is doing his job. The first manifestations were not encouraging. I didn't think the demonstration of power against civil disgruntled people was right. Civil disobedience is a means of reaching out to a particular community in its final lack of hope. Even if we do not identify with it, we need to understand that the act is often not about respect for the law and sabotage of the task entrusted to man. On the contrary, it touches this instrument because it feels that it is unable to carry out its task to an adequate standard, it cannot adequately represent the values entrusted to it. Civil disobedience can be a positive message in this sense. I'm worried about my country, so I'm going to use illegal tools to finally understand that I think there's a big problem. In case you don't understand the psychology of this, ask Prime Minister Viktor Orbán or the 152 Fidesz-KDNP Member of Parliament how they felt when the cordons around Kossuth Square were broken in violation of the laws on 2 February 2007. As the Members led by Viktor Orbán were concerned about the democracy of our country, my colleagues are now concerned about the education of our country. The way the teachers of Kölcsey Ferenc High School were put on the street at the beginning of the academic year was unacceptable to me. I felt this step was unfair and disproportionate. The following wave of protests was a logical consequence of the events, and it was well seen that such measures would only pour oil on the fire and plunge the conflict into an escalation spiral. At the time, I was hoping it was a one-time mistake. The decision by the State also led to the fact that the issue was partly in the area of party politics, and that a kind of means of government failure to protest against the government's education policy, while this does not help in the least to solve the problems of education. In addition, the Ministry's decision involved students in the protest, i.e. they were involved in an actual policy issue, although I am convinced that there is no place for party politics in public education. [[21.50]] On 30 November, my new colleagues were removed from their jobs without any substantive history. One of the teachers to whom they resigned worked in the same institution as I did. My head of the institution has indicated that he has not been consulted on this. As far as I know, MTI knew about the removal of teachers before those staff in the district, so I'm not even convinced that they knew about this decision at the State Department. All these circumstances show that education management aims to tackle the problems of education by throwing away the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis of Christian democracy. In addition, it is completely incomprehensible why my colleague was exposed when he participated in the protests with 20 of himself at our school. [[László Földi takes over the notary seat.]] I do not see the principle of consistency or gradualness behind the decisions that have been taken, and I therefore find them unfair and unacceptable. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Such is, therefore, an understanding, reasonable educator who soon came to the point of resigning, and this is the result of your education policy. There are hundreds, thousands of such examples that we could and will list in the next few hours. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in opposition lines.]]
u2023-06-16-219	Thank you very much, Congressman. We now have two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Mr László Pósán from the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2023-06-16-220	Thank you, Mr. President. Zita Gurmai, Sándor Szabó also suggested that the return of discipline was something terrible. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this is precisely what makes it possible, in the event of any disciplinary offense, not to terminate a person's employment or to kick him out of school, but to have a more differentiated, increased solution. So when you say that this current law is not good, you basically say that in any case that is a disciplinary offense, we fire the teachers. I don't think that's right. Bence of Turdai says it's better to keep the current law. That's what it's about, in essence, that they want to preserve the things they object to here. I would like to note that Zsolt Gréczy mentioned that young people are leaving. Well, in my memory, it was Ferenc Gyurcsány who said that it was possible to leave here, which was what he once said to the young Hungarians, so it is better to remember these. I would like to mention one more thing. Kálmán Olga said that textbooks are mandatory, they must be taught that there is no school leave. I would like to note that there are more textbooks that can be used. What a school will use and choose is up to it, by the way. Well, it's certainly true that NAT did have textbooks. Either they use it or they don't use it, but from that point of view, they say there's no choice, it's not true. However, textbooks for NAT are free of charge, which is also true. So, whatever parents choose or do not choose, let the parent make a decision and consider what their wallet will allow. I'm just saying this for clarity. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I know the facts are stubborn, they're a barrier to conception, but they still do. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-06-16-221	Thank you very much. The next two-minute speaker from the MSZP Group is Ms Ágnes Kunhalmi. Here you go.
u2023-06-16-222	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr President, I was about to respond to Mr Pósán, but if you were speaking before me, the equality books are entitled to state aid, it is good that you said that. Well, then, according to all the surveys, according to the Fidesz people, the fidesz teachers, who are willing to say that they support you, said that it was not a good idea to create such textbooks, because they simply cannot teach them differentiatedly, for example. You also said several circles ago that we should not say that everything is good in the European Union. The MSZ doesn't say that, and I'm definitely not saying that. In my opinion, the European Union should simply not be blackmailed in the way that you do. The money that would actually be owed to Hungary would be here by now. We MSZPs believe that neither blackmail nor blackmail can we be subjects of the European Union. So it's better to clear that up. However, I would like to ask the Secretary of State one question. As I understand it, there is a fidesz amendment, which would be a uniform 24 hours per week. It freaks me out with lower school teachers, because it doesn't work that way, and it means a rise. I'd rather suggest 22-24, not even 24. But I would ask you that, in view of this, 32 hours of compulsory residence and a mandatory replacement, there were often free replacements; and that keeping in 48 hours, that is to say, 48 hours can be ordered, in the light of the amendment we heard from you many times before, this was still the case. I would also like to say something about this: in 2010 after the crisis, the MSZP still committed 5.49 percent to the issue of Hungarian education, and in 2023 you intend to devote 4 percent in total. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Nominally?]] So they have a huge mandate, a great economy, then they should be able to solve this in Hungary. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2023-06-16-223	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker from the DK Group is Mr Zsolt Gréczy. Here you go.
u2023-06-16-224	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to add so much to the debate, at least at this stage, that you are constantly saying here in the budgetary debate that the Hungarian economy is doing so fantastically that it has never been so good to be Hungarian, there is money for everything, everything is fantastic and wonderful, and there are quite simply praises about the state of the country; while they are unable to solve the wage increase of teachers and teachers from the national budget. I would like to point out that if we had discussed and debated the future of Hungarian public education, we could have talked about a lot of other things. For example, we could have talked about the burden of teachers, the number of hours of students, in line with a modern education policy, not introducing subjects that prepare them, say, for an environmentally conscious thinking; or introducing subjects that teach them, say, home school or teach them financial thinking, to save money on how to invest their income. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] There is much to talk about about Hungarian public education: how to renew language education, how to prepare students, the future generation, for artificial intelligence to appear sooner or later, and even appeared in Hungarian education, and students use it with more or less success and efficiency. But instead, we are arguing that you are destroying Hungarian education, bleeding out, not enough money, not enough professional knowledge, and there is simply not enough humility in it for teachers, students and parents. They believe that Hungarian education can be controlled by dictatorships. This is not going to work, this thing has already failed, and in years we will see the ugly consequences of this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in opposition lines.]]
u2023-06-16-225	Thank you very much, Congressman. For two minutes, Congresswoman Szabó Timea will have the floor, Dialogue.
u2023-06-16-226	Thank you. My fellow Members, László Pósán and other Fidesz MEPs also said that this quality assessment that they are introducing will be very good and very useful, and that this has nothing to do with revenge; neither quality assessment nor the law. But the fact is that the news came out about two weeks ago that a history teacher in Balatonalmádi was exonerated with immediate effect, who was also a graduate class, not to mention a member of the Teachers' Union, and was actively involved in the organisation of strikes and protests. According to the official justification, this history teacher with the graduating class had to be dismissed because his professional qualification was 2 percent below the central level; the press knew that he had received an extremely low score on the aspect of professional commitment. So, according to the head of the school district, he wasn't committed enough, even though the whole school loved him, the principal loved him, and the students loved him. Now, this one smells like revenge. [[22.00]] You want to introduce this quality assessment system so that protest teachers or teachers who in some way disagree with this system will be able to use this quality assessment against those who do not agree with this system, as in the case of this Balatonalmád history teacher. So you must answer what is the guarantee that this quality assessment is not intended solely for the purpose of kicking all trade union members out of schools, for example. If someone sings the Grund at school or gets them to sing it with the students, is there a reason why they're firing him? 'Cause for now, it seems like it is. Thank you. [[Applause in the opposition benches.]]
u2023-06-16-227	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Timea Szabó. The next two-minute comment is Lőrinc Nacsa, the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2023-06-16-228	Thank you very much. The fact is, my fellow Members, that the whole mediation is not visible, which is not on the speaker's side. I would just like to point out to everyone that the left has its own thoughts so much that Bence Tordai passes out speeches on paper to his fellow Members, the various letters, only everyone should be aware of that. [[Bence of Turdai: It's not, but it doesn't matter! There's a noise in the dialogue. The president's ringing the bell.]] Congressman, the thing is, I didn't say how big wage increases there are, so don't lie. Don't lie because that's not what I said. I said that every year since 2010, the budget has increased, in the education budget, the amount that can be spent on wages. [[Intercom from the opposition benches: No, it's not true!]] I also said that he would never hear from us that it was enough or much, but we always say that we need more than that, and we're working on more. I've recorded the fact that every year there's been an increase in the budget for education wages over the past 13 years. And if you were talking about the protest earlier, the honourable Member, at the beginning of his speech, about who is using teachers, who is using them for their own political purposes, who is making political hysteria out of it, if someone has looked at the pictures of the demonstration, then you have seen exactly who is Momentum banners, Dialogue banners, MSZP flags, DK banners and Jobbik flagmen at the demonstration. Your employees were at this protest, and he led your employees, your representatives, and then they told me that it was party independent, of course. [[Szabó Timea and Bence Tordai intervene.]] You're settling in with educators by purely political calculation. [[Noise in opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] If you have already read this, if you have no idea, and have read a letter, honourable Member, [[Bence of Turda: Yes, I did!]] It wasn't, unfortunately, so you could see that this educator described the cordon breakdown. You conspired with those whom you disagreed with, against whom you had to close the barricade, and now you have conspired with them. He started with DK-logo and MSZP logo and supported Ference Gyurcsány. [[Noise in DK's ranks.]] I think it's a very divided state, you might want to think about that. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-16-229	Thank you very much. The next two-minute comment is Congressman Endre Tóth, Momentum.
u2023-06-16-230	Thank you very much for the floor. I would like to talk about the fact that in a democratic country the government should have a very important task, a department of expertise, to build confidence in the actors and subordinates of the field it represents. So a ministry of education, if it were, would have to build trust in teachers, schools, students, parents' organizations, so that if it makes a change, then this change will be accepted by these actors with understanding. In this task, which would be a foundation in a democratic country, you have failed very harshly in recent times. You may think that, since this is not a democratic country, this is not necessary or simply tried, but failed, but we do not see the ambition, because when teachers said with a strike demand a year and a half ago that education was in a very serious crisis and that their profession was in very humiliating working conditions, you did not listen to them for a year and a half. We know that the Romanian strike lasted only three weeks, so there are examples where things don't last that long, but instead of listening to them, they just pulled out the negotiations and to date didn't give a clear answer to these demands, not these demands were fulfilled with this status law, but they only do something else. Teachers were asked to maximize the number of compulsory classes in 22 hours, and now you want to determine this number in 24 hours, which will result in an increase in the number of hours for many educators. So, what I'm saying is that this trust has not been built, and that's why many of you are going to resign from the original, very harsh version of the Vengeance Act, and that's why teachers are not going to believe that, and a lot of people are going to quit because of the lack of trust. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the opposition benches.]]
u2023-06-16-231	Thank you, Congressman Endre Tóth. Dear Parliament, Newly announced speakers will come within a 15-minute time frame, first from Congressman Zoltán Komáromi, DK.
u2023-06-16-232	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I can't cross my shadow, nearly 43 years... [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] After nearly 43 years of curative work, I became a Member of Parliament, so in most political debates I run the topics discussed through the views of my political opponents and allies on the software of my life experience. T/4255 on the new career of educators for the government's vendetta bill. I can't even comment on a bill without it. Let's start with the law of duty. It has not worked in health care either, it has not improved health care, it has not shortened the waiting lists to receive better care for patients, it has not left fewer professionals in the sector, no more young people have come forward that he wants to be a health care worker, a professional or a doctor. Then why would you do that? In 2013, urban hospitals and clinics were removed from municipal authorities with the promise that institutions that might be operated worse by poorer, disadvantaged municipalities would be improved by the state einstand and offset the existing differences. In this matter, it rarely happens, but Fidesz was telling the truth. Equality has been established in three to four years, not as promised, but in a slightly modified form, the better functioning institutions have fallen to the level of the weaker performers. We've seen it at the schools, but now the government and parliament are putting another snout on it. And so that no one has any illusions, not for you or for the voters who still support you, if the education fails, then our children, our grandchildren, will not be taught high-quality, there will be no medical doctor, pharmacist, teacher, engineer, IT lawyer at home in 5-10-15 years. It won't be, because no one will be able to properly prepare you from biology, physics, chemistry, mathematics, Hungarian, history, because the gym teacher wasn't trained to teach biology or chemistry at high school, because the geography teacher may not have been so good at biology or history as to properly prepare the students in charge for a high-level graduation or university admission. The richer families, of course, will solve this problem with tens of thousands paid to private teachers in self-defense, hundreds of thousands, but as long as we are members of the European Union, they will apply to the University of Vienna, Linzi, Munich and Paris, and they will enroll there in 5-6-8 years, with a degree or two abroad in their pockets, it is not certain that they will be looking at the job advertisements of Hungarian rural cities. Is that what we want? Is that what you want? ! In education, a situation is now emerging across the country, as if in a crisis situation in a Hungarian city, the chief surgeon is forced to replace a psychiatrist, say, to solve an acute depression or severe sleep disorder, or, worse still, the psychiatrist would have to either treat acute appendicitis or operate on a gastric bleed. You see that as nonsense, don't you? [[22.10]] In government communication, we often encounter the fact that the EU representatives of the left who receive HUF 6 million in salary prevent Hungary from obtaining the EU's support, which is why Fidesz and the government are unable to pay the teachers. [[Robert Szigó: Name by Name?]] By name. I have three comments on this. The first is that the representatives of Fidesz and KDNP do nothing for the same amount of fees for the euro, so that Hungary can obtain this money. The EU representatives of the left are not saying what you and the footage are repeating against Fidesz's propaganda. There is a second half of the sentence that you are not listening to, and it happens that because you, the government you support, are not using these funds to raise and develop Hungary for years, but to steal it, only the oligarchs of the NER would profit from it. Third: Klára Dobrev and his shadow government are working to get these grants to Hungary as soon as possible and to the greatest extent possible [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Oh, yeah!]] And here comes the point: and it is indeed for the benefit of the Hungarian people, not a newly pumped oligarch team. I think that what you've been doing not only now, but in recent months and years, reminds me of the eternal work of Frigyes Karinthy who, say, read when Bauer explains his certificate in a surrealistic way. And one more thing. I've repeated it several times over the last few months, but you've ignored it, and then you've proved that I'm right again, and we're right. So, the quote is, what works, you have to leave it alone, let it work. People who dilettively pick on the institutions of the public sector for the benefit of Hungarian people and here we can buy culture, buy health care, buy social networks, take education, who do not know how these systems work most of the time. A chess player who does not see the reaction to his moves 4-5-6 steps ahead usually falls out of the race in the first round. Unfortunately, that's not true in politics. The dilettious politicians of a dilettant government cause a great deal of damage to the country, the Hungarian people, and the more they can continue to do it. They don't want to learn because they're arrogant, forget that they don't have the Philosopher's Stone on the one hand, and learn the right solutions from the countries around us with greater political humility, now Slovakia, Romania, Croatia, so that I don't talk about the Austrian laboratories. I had my 50-year high school reunion two weeks ago. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Congratulations!]] Yeah. I was born in Szentes, a small town in Lowland, where I graduated, and in fact at this 50-year meeting we talked to my classmates about teaching us, and we were taught by talented teachers not at Potter, not at Radnóti, not at Toldy, but in Szentes, in the small town, in the Horváth Mihály High School. And how did they teach you? We still remember how our history teacher taught us the Árpád-house kings. He went to the Munich Olympics in 73 and didn't come home at the beginning of the year. [[An intervention on the side of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] In '72, because I graduated from '73. So he didn't come home when he was supposed to come home, and he was already on his way out to tell me he wasn't defecting, he wasn't coming back until a week later. But when he arrived, he told us, the 17-year-old kids, what he saw outside about terrorism, because he saw it in front of the TV, which we didn't know at home. And that made us smarter, more insight into the world, and I think even as a chemistry major, we won it. And the fact that the police of a small town and the high school director of a small town had failed to admit that he was a week late on a trip to Western Europe, that is also the characteristic of the school, the teacher's honor and integrity, the teachers were appreciated. In fact, we were launched on an intellectual career, so that we remembered, for example, 20 years later from Hungarian literature, what was going on in Man's tragedy, and when there were no lines in one processing, we were able to cancel those lines when we were not going to be a philosopher, but I was, for example, a doctor. The distorted economic policy of the Orbán governments sees development in a low added value supply economy based on cheap labour and, of course, has also assigned education policy to this. Vocational training is characterised by two major problems, a growing shortage of teachers, like education, and strong centralisation. With this in mind, the decade has had two important educational policy efforts to shift students to the labour market and focus on vocational training as soon as possible. But let's see how this has been done here, in the training of health professionals. In fact, they reduced the age limit for schooling from 18 to 16, made access to state-funded training difficult, and shifted students from higher education schools to vocational training. Reforms in recent years have eliminated the possibility for students of vocational schools to graduate from primary secondary school and then continue to study, although, for example, in the 1980s and even in the early 1990s, 10-15 percent of the students from the medical secondary school were successfully educated in the medical colleges, in the pharmacist's or in the medical faculty. And how much these colleagues won by not graduating in high school, but in medical secondary school, this has been seen everywhere for the first three or four years, and this should not have been abolished, but continued and strengthened. So the curriculum innovations weakened the students' chances of catching up. In 2013, vocational education and training schools and vocational school curricula have now significantly reduced the weight of public knowledge subjects in technical curricula. This is what I was talking about when I was a student in chemistry, physics, medical school, and they thought it was important to provide me with a ammunition from geography, Hungarian literature and history, which is half of an intellectual existence, and I am not becoming a professional barbarian, and I should thank my teachers for that. If we look at the impact of the reforms that you have made on the health system, there is a very sad picture. In the field of domestic health care professional training, the medical school was published in 58 where nursing and midwife training had already been separated. You probably don't know that. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Because it is not in the law.]] But at least now, if you're sitting here, it's a little bit more advanced. The most significant health vocational training reform was implemented in 68 by a large number of independent medical secondary schools in the country. The first graduates, generally trained professionals, were placed in the healthcare system in 72. You can say that in every small town where there was a hospital, there was a medical secondary school or as part of the high school or as part of the economics technique, but there was, and every year this provided for the professional needs of the local hospital, district clinics, outpatient clinics. The aim of the renewed vocational and secondary education was to create a unit of advanced general education and secondary vocational training. Together with the graduation, a general nurse and a general assistant provided a professional qualification that allowed the continuation of higher education studies. After the change of regime, the medical secondary school nurse training and specialization courses, as well as the specialization courses, were put into the OKJ system, which was a huge mistake, by the way. As a result, the classic medical secondary school classes and the nursing school conducted there also ceased in 1997. [[22.20]] This has been replaced by three-year vocational education and training based on graduation, outside of the school system, the practical results of which have often been criticised because of what has been criticised. Basic training can be divided into three large groups: training in the field of care, training in various areas of assistants, training in special areas of health, but I will probably talk about this in two minutes. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the opposition ranks.]]
u2023-06-16-233	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Komáromi. The next pre-notified speaker is Ms Anna Orosz, Ms Momentum, within a 15-minute time frame.
u2023-06-16-234	Thank you for the floor. You know, the status law is just one of the measures against which students, teachers and parents have protested over the past 13 years. The new NAT, the repeatedly failed KLIK system, centralization, school security and other insanity, and protests against them have gone an incredible amount of energy and time, while the children have only gotten worse in our schools, because they have lost their perspective and interest in education. A particularly dedicated school or teacher can, of course, be an exception, but the system is about to grind everyone up. Over the last decade, in addition to life support, teachers have become less and less observant in schools to support the development of children according to drasticly changing external circumstances and expectations. Now the status law will also drive away the remaining good teacher, the school will not be able to fulfil its original function, it will almost become a punishment for children. Let's see what an average school day looks like. Six o'clock in the morning, ten-pound school bag, arrival at three-quarters, bell-freak,, Class, watch out! , queued, 20-minute lunch break, fine cooking, black-and-white holiday school openings at 40 degrees, silence, no talking, you can go out if I allow you about as prisoners. [[Interviews from the ruling parties, including Lőrinc Nacsa: Shouldn't you be opening a school year?]] Why are these elements of school life mandatory? [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Why not start school at least later in public school years, when there is no longer a need for a parent and the teenage organization needs rest? Why do we think it's necessary to blow children 6-8-12 years old out of bed at dawn [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Respond to this!]] While we have long known that, contrary to previous misconceptions, early uprisings that build character are particularly bad? [[Intercom from opposition lines: That's right! He's right.]] Why can't we have a longer lunch break, maybe a nice lunch and a snack, maybe a nutritious one? If adults know that it is important for them to have at least half an hour's lunch break, where they eat nutritious and delicious food, why should they, in the case of developing children, settle down to have 20 minutes to go down to the cafeteria, stand in line, eat the cheapest meal possible, and get back to the next hour? Why do they settle for the burden of families, for a parent to spend double on lunch by cooking for the children's meal during the day? Let's take a look at the school buildings. Hard to open, impressive gates at the entrance, columns that seem monumental as children, gloomy corridors and stairwells, oblong classrooms, difficult to move with 30-year-old benches, painting obviously only if parents undertake. Tens of decades of sweat in gym lockers, uncultured toilets, crumbling plaster. Why do we accept that children spend their days in these conditions for 12 years? Why can't these buildings be transformed according to the spirit of the age? You're supposed to be a family-friendly government, and that's what our schools are like. Why not create a common space for one or two classes, where children not only work and learn, but can relax and organise programs for themselves? Why do we accept the fact that the 21st century In the century, do our most cherished treasures, children, use toilets without soap and without hot water? Let's go to school for a while. The year of all existing battles, the biography of all poets and writers, in a blind map, all the rivers of the world, covalent bindings, closed-rooms, remote jumps. In life, it is far from the knowledge acquired without context that can be used, so it is a bit like punishing children because of some strange perversion with all the facts and data to be taken in. Meanwhile, there is such a great need for the knowledge that children in school can absorb in 12 years not as a separate mountain of information in their lives, but as an integral part of their reality, their image of the world. [[Nacsa Lawrence:...and smoking pot!]] Neither Sándor Petőfi, nor Zoltán Kodály, nor Magda Szabó were created to allow children to know every moment of their CVs, but to provide experience, cheer, company, deepening, fantasy. Why do we give up giving children the joy of reading, the enjoyment of music and arts instead of cramming? Why not learn about tax systems in mathematics and learn about the social effects of redistribution in history? Why shouldn't children in physics study thermology in such a way that it can be used later in the insulation of their homes? Instead of throwing the medicine ball as far away as possible, why shouldn't the role of daily physical education classes be that children experience the joy of movement and find the form of movement that they consistently and gladly enjoy in their lives? Why shouldn't the school pass on the knowledge and approach that a young adult invents himself in every important situation from the House Assembly to bank borrowing and working in the team? There's no time for this kind of thing, there's no time for kids in school benches, there's a growing lack of confidence. These setbacks are the ultimate diminution in children's eyes of the sincere curiosity and glamour with which they entered the classroom as freshmen. Why should it not be a realistic expectation that no child in schools should be afraid of asking the right question, making mistakes, or giving an opinion on any subject? Why not base in 2023 on the fact that it is part of the school culture that, in case of uncertainty, it is always better to ask questions than to remain silent? Why shouldn't the teacher have time to help the questioners, and he knows that when a child has a question, it lies in others? Where children learn that error and even failure are part of life. The question is not how many times people are wrong or wrong, but how to learn from it, how to move on stronger after failure. In a normal school, it would be a basis for educators to have time to apply this approach in their everyday lives. [[Bernadett Bakos is replaced by Sándor Berki in the notary seat.]] After six or seven hours a day, late-night homework writings, early-school seventh grade math repetitions of parents, ten-page workbook assignments, private lessons, lonely ciphers, recordings. If an adult works an average of eight hours a day, why do we expect children to be alone for hours after six to seven hours a day after their homework? Why is it not natural for children to stop studying after school from 8:00 to 2:00 in the afternoon? Why is there a late night of study? Why do parents have to bring in the seventh grade mathematics in a crash course and study with the children at night instead of playing together, talking after the daily beating? [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It won't hurt them!]] And if you're parents: toilet paper, cleaners paid by parents, prepers, dread that from September you'll have more missing teachers, and the class teacher who was enrolled in May-June will be working in a store or anywhere else by September; long and exhausting parenting meetings, Jesus, for some reason the school teacher invited you to school, there must be a big problem! Feelings. Why would it be a devil's idea that parents would not have to pay for extra lessons, training or equipment belonging to the school's basic equipment beyond their paid tax forints? Instead of having a fire-fighting problem with children, why not have regular conversations between parents and teachers about children even if there is no big problem? It's just, you know, it's gonna take time. While the child is the most important treasure for everyone in this life, I think we all agree here in the horseshoe, and the government, in your opinion, is family-friendly, the Hungarian school treats children as if they were doing something wrong and being punished. [[22.30]] No wonder they have become lonely, anxious, with attention disorder, depression, and more serious mental disorders due to overburden and pessimism in the future. The Hungarian children are not well! It is no coincidence that they are now the protagonists of demonstrations, who believe that only someone is using them, probably never talked to children about what a Hungarian school is like today. The way the school works also reflects how we look at children, respect them, love them. Do we realize that the way we treat them today will also be our future? If we value, support, help them, we will form a cooperative, persistent, innovative, well-functioning community and society. If we continue to treat them as we do now, we will build a world of bleak, authoritarian, individual interests. You know, that's the kind of question we should be talking about instead of the status law, how to do schools like this. We reject the status law as it is because it only proves that Fidesz simply has no intention of creating schools that serve the children's interests. We're talking about 5,000 teachers quitting last year, 16,000 teachers are missing, 5 000 teachers are going to quit again this year, so we're going to miss every seventh teacher, we're missing a math teacher from every other school, we're missing a science teacher from every third school; we're missing a science teacher or informatics teacher from every third school; they're working for a hunger pay, they've centralised schools, they've taken away professional autonomy, they've taken away the local say that young people are going to study abroad. We should be talking about the issues I've been talking about, not how they won't ruin teachers and children as much as they've done before. Finally, I would like to read to you a message from a voter who lives in Bence Rétvári's single-member constituency and wanted to share his experience with me about schools. I quote: to the Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári, who has been waiting for a new primary school in the second largest settlement in his district, Őrbottyán, for more than ten years, whose visual design he has soared in his campaign and promised its construction in the autumn of 2024, which has also been added to the list of investments that János Lázár has cancelled. The current school is leaking, children have been using unchanged water blocks for nearly 40 years, in order to create a IT room, they had to eliminate water blocks, several classes have been studying in containers for years. According to an advertisement published by the school on 12 June, a Hungarian language and literature, a mathematics, physics, an English teacher and a teacher are sought before the submission of the law. Civil society organisations create the money to replace multi-annual, leaky, used curtains with darkeners that, in the absence of climate conditions, are able to exclude heat somewhat and contribute to the children's ability to see the digital signs properly, which are still in operation. This will also be necessary if the academic year is extended, which the Status Act provides for. It is just time for the secretary of state to start working for his constituency, instead of abusing our teachers, to implement the promised educational institutions, to create the right educational conditions for students. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, It is not someone else's, but your responsibility that the Hungarian schools are in ruins today, and you are pretending to do anything, because they still have their support. But believe me, this whole system, with all its destruction, all its lies, will fall on you one day, and it will be very difficult for you to stand up from the ruins. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition ranks.]]
u2023-06-16-235	Thank you, Congresswoman Anna Russian. The next announced speaker is Tamás Harangozó, representative of MSZP, in a 15-minute time frame.
u2023-06-16-236	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. At the beginning of my speech, since this is supposed to be a new career model, I would like to gather in points what I think is the problem with it and what is the problem in the profession, and then, if I may, I would like to say some of the things that put in a little context why we actually think we are sitting here, why this proposal has been submitted, and what the consequences will be, not just for education. First of all, I would like to start by saying that this draft law is not only a Fricska on the nose of teachers and responsible thinkers, but also consciously goes against the basis of the EFOP Plus agreement between the European Union and the Government of Hungary. Its submission can also be seen as the government has renounced the special amounts of support, such as the teacher's wage increase that the European Union has voluntarily offered, seeing the gradual and permanent deterioration of the quality of Hungarian education. The consultation prior to the submission of the bill does not correspond to customary law, and today, it is not worth much, or to the relevant paragraphs of the law on the status of civil servants still in force, but we have also become accustomed to the fact that today it is no longer worth anything. During the mock-ups, including consultation with the Pintér parties, government officials mostly listened to the proposals of trade unions without a decision mandate during the negotiations, but the vast majority of the proposals were not even considered to be a negotiating basis. Certain elements of the bill submitted to Parliament were not included in the version of the proposal which was negotiated with trade unions, so that they could not even give an opinion on them. The draft law seeks to limit the authority and permissions of interest representatives so far, partly by adapting the terms of negotiation so far, and partly by the terms of the planned pay table from one to the other. They inspire educators to try to put themselves in a better position with a personal wage deal, avoiding collective bargaining. A further cut in pedagogical freedom is one of these points. Instead of making decisions, an opinion and a drastic violation of personal freedom, the control of personal property, the extension of the obligation of confidentiality may raise legal violations of the rights guaranteed by the Fundamental Law. I would like to note here, ladies and gentlemen, that an analogy cannot be drawn between the job of teachers, their calling for life, their work, teaching and other actors in the administration of the state. You're not suggesting that checking the work of teachers is similar to, say, a police officer, a secret servant or a soldier, or even a government officer? That's nonsense! The further disintegration of the school psychology system, which is currently a full-time school psychologist of 500 people/1, will now be a serious damage to the situation of children with multiple disadvantages and SNIs and, according to all surveys, a gradual increase in care. And here, think about the chaos that is currently happening in this area, Mr. State Secretary, about the enormous problems that Hungarian families are facing today, depending on the settlement structure and the size of the settlement. Anyone who can't afford private education or extracurriculars to take care of these children today in a small settlement, is supposed to be able to do about what in such important villages or small towns? And now they're going to lower this standard and transform this system by making it the children and the families. The extension of the internship period and the shortening of the leave period not only undermines the work, but also harms the affected financially, taking net money out of the teachers' and start-ups' pockets. The draft deliberately does not include any initial internship payments, it is referred to the authority of the current government, thereby further eroding the intention of freshly completed teachers to enter the field. And maybe you think it's funny that you're gonna do whatever you want in the government decree, and we're not interested in this, so I guess the pro-government people don't care, but when you choose a young career, and they can't tell you what's gonna happen next week, let alone ten years from now, you're not gonna choose that field. I can tell you about your other failure, the huge recruitment campaign. It's not working! When young people see the colonels being fired by hundreds, generals overnight, that doesn't mean that it's a career and a career to set up and spend the rest of your life on. That is absolutely true, and if you consider teachers to be careers and vocations, because that is what we have considered them to be, without law, then so are they. Compared to the proposed budget law of 2024 submitted at the same time, there is nowhere to meet the lower limit of the wages included in the present draft, even if the total provision was used for this purpose. So it's completely nonsense to hear the propaganda they're doing about raising salaries. [[22.40]] And then let's see what you promise in this huge career law about salaries, about categories. Intern's salary: apart from extending internship status, we don't know. That's what they promise. This is what this Parliament must now accept, that it does not know or does not care how much the trainees will receive as salaries. It's a very good message. Teacher I.: from 410,000 to 1 million 65 thousand forints. I'm not going through it. I'm just saying, 430-1.1; 520-1.3; 640-one million to one-and-a-half million. Now, Mr. Secretary, why didn't it say that it was between HUF 210,000 and HUF 3 million, or between HUF 50,000 and HUF 8 million? Well, what is it? What's this? Tell me, be nice. Here's how they're gonna decide if the nice educators are gonna make 410 in one category or 1 million in 650. According to their own proposal, the degree of internship, the level of education, professional qualifications, and so on, which is the basis for classification for the performance of the job. The additional tasks undertaken voluntarily in addition to the job tasks, the recognition given by the Minister for Maintenance or Higher Education in relation to the activity of a teacher is the sum of the very, very important resources available to the employer. Now, one more time. So there are four professional aspects, including the ministerial medal, that is also very important. On the four professional aspects, we do not know to what extent and under what objective conditions you will determine this, but you will bring in point 5, to which you could have written, Mr Secretary of State, that point 5 is to forget the first four. Point 5 is the sum of the resources at the employer's disposal. Well, that's ridiculous, Mr. Secretary. Well, that means we should be happy that 410, let alone 1 million 650, will be given to anyone! Well, how can the employer take into account the above professional proposals when faced with them, let me quote your wallet, for example, the superbly tailored benchmarking system in law enforcement, when they give an ICS forint to an institution and tell you to do it. Deal with this, buddy, and then the employers sit there and pull down the employee scores, because even though he did well, he doesn't come out of the money, so they write it down, and it goes in their file that they didn't work well. Not because they didn't work well, but because they didn't get money from the Ministry. That's what you write in the law, that everything's very nice, everything's very good, yeah, forget all about it, and then whatever money you get, share it with each other. It's quite amazing, Mr. Secretary of State. And what is missing from the law is that the performance assessment and wage consequences will appear in some kind of regulation, like working hours, job breakdowns, the number of teachers in a career law. Now, Mr Secretary of State, at this point in time, I would rather talk to my fellow Members with fidesz about what has happened to teachers and education in recent years, and you seriously ask yourself why they are doing this. What's this for? So what's the advantage of Fidesz having a demonstration, destroying people's lives, giving up teachers, having students out on the street. Believe me, kids have much better things to do than show off on the street for what they think is real or what we think is their real grievances. What's it for? One of the solutions is that, of course, they've been tricked, already the teachers, because they've already passed a law once, that they're going to have an automatic wage increase on the minimum wage, and then they took it out elegantly, and then they froze their wages, but besides, you really don't understand why. Don't you have a teacher in your family? Didn't you have a teacher to sit down with and ask how they're gonna live with that? Or are you really going to tell me, especially as an individual representative, that you've never met a teacher who would have told you what was really going on at school? How can they not tell you they're starving at the end of the month? With these wages? That the teacher who raises her children alone has no idea how she will pay her bill at the end of the month? You won't tell them to their eyes? Don't tell me you don't have a circle of friends who would at least confront you. They've been ruling for 13 years! They spend hundreds of billions of dollars on so many stupid things this year! It's not true that it couldn't have been this year with a hussar cut, as they usually do, to fix the pay for this area at least! That's not really what this is about, no, and that's not what my private theory is about, unfortunately, I'm afraid I'm gonna be right again. That's not what this is about. This is about what Agnes Kunhalmi said in his speech. For your leader, this is not a professional issue. This is a cornerstone of his system: it cannot be an independent, independent, thinking factor in this country, and it was the pedagogical society. Those who obtained their degrees in the early eighties, ninety and two thousand years, or who have been teaching in Hungarian education for the past 30 years, are used to having autonomy, to thinking that they have freedom, that they only have to deal with the child, and they don't give a damn about any instructions from above, because that's not what the school is about, they don't run the kindergarten from Carmelita, they don't control the primary school, they don't control the secondary school. They're trying to break it, and they're trying to get this generation out of school. That's what they do! This! And when the young people who have grown up in this horror come, they will raise their salary, and everyone will be happy, because both the child and the student will be on guard in the morning when they turn on the daily Viktor Orbán on television. That's what's going on in my personal opinion. I have no other sensible answer to that question. Well, don't you guys know that most of the schools where there's already a shortage of teachers are going to retire for the next three to five years, 10 to 25 percent of the faculty will retire? Secretary of State, don't you know? Don't you know that in three years, most of the schools won't be able to teach? Or do you really think the solution is that I don't know, masons are gonna be teaching biology classes as a guest teacher? I'm running out of time, so I'll talk about the rest later. But in the end, I would like to make clear to you what I think you know very well, that the fact that this law is being adopted now and so, that you are excluding this country from European Union funds. Not because they do not fulfil any of the existing EU conditions, but because they are deliberately, directly and publicly violating an already agreed, signed condition signed by the Hungarian Government. It has been signed that such a law will not be amended without the agreement and agreement of trade unions, stakeholders, and will not change the basic aspects of their living conditions, and will not, in particular, change their damage. In the beginning, I listed at least eight points, where they can be shown to be modified, both financially and professionally. I understand that Márton Nagy announces that, in the long term, the country can now be prepared for life without EU funds, but you must also understand: if you press the yes button, then you will be personally responsible for not coming to the teacher's wage increase, nor for the development of the country, nor for the development of your own constituency, including two hundred projects that have already been decided, nor for what you would have planned in the future. You will be responsible for this, because with this law, you will literally break the agreement that was concluded with the Union at the end of last year. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2023-06-16-237	Thank you, Congressman Tamás Bellozó. The next announced speaker was Rebekah Szabó, representative of the Dialogue, within a 15-minute time frame.
u2023-06-16-238	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of Congressman Nacsa, it is okay that if he is not here now, because I still think it is important to say it, I do not know, memorize or object to the fact that papers, I do not know, are given by one opposition representative to another, and that we are sure, I do not know, that we dictate the speeches to each other. Well, that is not what we are trying to take representation seriously, and the voice of the people involved by the law, so the students and teachers, in the first place, are trying to bring their voices into the Chamber, and many of my opposition fellow Members have tried to tell you the contents of letters to them, or even open letters, because I think they have a right to assume that you do not see them, read them, or meet them. [[22.50]] I'm guessing the Origo won't bring these letters down, or maybe the letters you're getting won't dare read them to us here. In any case, I think that it is part of the representation that, in the case of laws affecting citizens, we are trying to raise their views here in Parliament. That's one thing. The other, and some of us have already said this: I do not know, I find it so sad that today we have not been allowed to use our right to enter people, and even from here, from the gallery, to listen to this debate. I do not consider this a good direction, but that is why it is important that we read these opinions. In addition, I would very much like to say that we talk a lot about how much funding can be for a teacher's wage increase. Many times, it is said from the Fidesz benches that opposition representatives do not give us, I don't know, money, and that there is therefore no cover for educators' wage increases. I don't think that's true. Obviously, the first half is not true either, because I believe that if you have had two thirds of them for 13 years, and you dare to use them in many cases, then perhaps you should have the problem of why you receive EU funds or why you will not receive them because of your behaviour and the problems of your corruption, democratic and other arrangements. But how much the wage increase should not depend on it, we in the Dialogue Green think that from national sources, from our own budgetary resources, this could be solved if you wanted to. I think that is an example that has already been mentioned in passing, but I would like to stress it now, just because I am involved not only in the educational part, but also as its corners in this matter. I'm a member of Parliament living in Zugló, and I used to work in the Zugló municipality. I'm completely shocked by what Congressman Hadházy discovered in a contract that your government bought it for HUF 244 billion otherwise I don't think that's funny. [[Robert Szigó: That's not what we were laughing about!]] a former business associate of the Prime Minister's son-in-law, Bayer Construct Zrt. From one of its subsidiaries, the building of such large office buildings is now being built there in Bosnyák Square, which has not been discussed with the district municipality in part because you have declared this project a major investment, as is usually the case with a number of investments in the country, resulting in the fact that from then on local people have nothing to say about it. Otherwise, even in the case of such a huge investment, the municipality has some minimum room for manoeuvre to enter into an agreement with the investor, this will basically go up in smoke from now on, or anything can happen on very, very unequal terms, since the priority investment will take all rights away from the municipality and give all rights to the highly capitalised investor. Well, you spent 244 billion forints on this construction project that was hit by a major investment. According to our calculations, this is about 40 percent of the annual teacher's wage. Our numbers may not be as accurate as yours, as you obviously have the real data, but I would be so curious to hear from Secretary Maruzsa that I think this could be about 40 percent of the salary, and that, for example, a 40 percent increase of this money for a year would have been possible for teachers in general, and that is just one thing. I'm sure that's why you've made an eye out for me, I'm telling you, because I live in Zuglo, but if we look around you, Mr. Secretary, what's more important is to raise the wages of teachers by 40%, or buy some building offices in Bosnyák tér, and otherwise I don't understand why the state needs it, it's pointless. It was owned by a large real estate company, a very large real estate developer, and I don't see what the great interest of the national economy is in buying office buildings for the state against, for example, spending this money on teachers. This is what I am trying to say in such a very slick way, but I would really like to hear your opinion, obviously also the opinion of the other Fidesz Members, that when you, say, even in your constituency, try to explain this to teachers who work in the schools where you live, or your constituency, how would you explain this? What is the connection that you would tell them why this was a super good decision on your part of the government? Just to be clear, I think it was a bad decision, and I don't think that's right. I think that if you are, by the way, cutting down public services, for example, kicking people out of national parks, so if I see that there are so much restrictions on public services, unfortunately, then such money should actually be spent on what is good for many people, which is good for the common good. No? 'Cause obviously, if you're getting rich in money, unfortunately, you're used to spending money with both hands here in 13 years, and now I see that you're gonna have to tighten your belt, unfortunately, I think it's your bad economic policy, but let's not get into it right now, because obviously we're not gonna agree with that, but you can see that you're planning to cut back, and then you're gonna spend 244 billion on office buildings instead of teachers. Well, if someone here can explain this to me, then I'm really gonna listen to you very carefully, I'd really appreciate it. Bracket: So I was wondering if you could tell me something about that. To continue speaking, we have obviously talked a lot about this law itself, and what it is you say you do not understand why you are protesting here, why you protest on Kossuth Square, or why teachers are on strike, or why we, opposition representatives, are disgruntled here, why we are debating, protesting when you think it is a super legislation. If I wanted to highlight just a few things that have caught my attention from your proposal, for example, there is this freedom of speech. I think that in 2023, especially before the change of regime, obviously, as I look at it, I was a child at that time, before 89, and I'm guessing you were alive at that time. [[Defiance and intervention from Fidesz: Yes, we were children!]] So I think freedom of speech is a very, very important value. Now you have put it in this bill that is certainly funny, that it is forbidden for teachers to speak negatively about public education outside of working hours in order to maintain public confidence in public education. To be honest, I consider this a very, very sad part of this bill, because it actually has the kind of repressive effect and it strengthens the kind of fear that many teachers are already afraid to strike or not to go on display. Obviously a little less in Budapest, because it is a big city, there is not so much dependence, but in smaller settlements, where everyone knows everyone, we hear this very, very much, unfortunately, that they are afraid of retaliation, because often there is no other job opportunity, and obviously some of the teachers do not want to, say, necessarily, I don't know, take a trench shore, because otherwise they are called, they love their profession and want to teach. So, unfortunately, this confirms this, the fear that people do not dare to speak, and we think that the teacher is not a servant, the student is not a soldier, so this approach, I think, should not be strengthened in Hungarian education. But the disciplinary procedure is in the same category, which has already been mentioned here by other Members, that it has already ceased once before. You will now put this back into the law, up to a 20 percent reduction in salary for six months and a dismissal. So, the problem is that we are unfortunately seeing it, and the teachers know that these tools can be used quite simply as a retortion, if the district does not like something, as we have already seen, unfortunately, in the case of firings following protests and strikes, there are also labour lawsuits on this subject. So you have tried to demonstrate strength, you have tried to act threateningly, and unfortunately I think that this amendment will make this possible. [[23.00]] And then I find it very sad that the board's decision-making powers have been cut, so far, the pedagogical program, the sms, the annual work plan has been defined, and the policy has now remained. Well, okay, but why do you need to take away the autonomy of a teaching board? You know, teaching is a creative job, not cutting trees. Obviously, cutting wood also has an important role to play, but teaching is a creative, intellectual work, thinking people going to teach. Very well, because students, children, have to be raised to think about. Professional workers can be as thinking people as they should be, as, say, university graduates. This should not depend on the level of education in itself, but on a kind of critical thinking, a kind of interpretational question, vision. 'Cause I think, by the way, we're gonna have a country ahead of us if we're gonna be able to hand this ability over to people from the turnout to, I don't know, carpenters to electricians and doctors. And the problem is that these measures of yours have an impact on this. And I don't understand, I want you to explain to me why you think this is so good, why you think it's right. I would also like to ask you that this may have been mentioned, but this is very important to me, because my family also has children's psychologists: psychologists, school psychologists, kindergarten psychologists. When I worked in Zuglo in the local government, in the kindergartens in Zuglo, it was my suggestion to start building a network of kindergarten psychologists. Their work is very important. I've been getting feedback from kindergarten educators about how much the presence of psychologists helps in their work. You always talk about the protection of families, unfortunately, there are difficulties, I don't know, stressful parents, or, if you're thinking about later, how much help a school psychologist can offer to schoolchildren, whether it's the conflicts between children or even the teachers. I think if we asked you one by one, I'm sure you'd say it's a good thing there's psychology in schools. Well, why don't you explain to me why 500 kids have a school psychologist so far, and now they're halfway to 500 kids. This means that they will double the number of people who go to a school or kindergarten psychologist. And this is what you financed, isn't it? Explain to me why this is good, why you think it is good for Hungarian children, why it is good for teachers. By the way, seriously, I know how much a school and kindergarten psychologist earns because I worked in a city council, so I know what the pay table looks like, so don't make it so expensive. But are they really gonna save money on this? And, I'm telling you, they don't just deal with kids, they deal with educators, they give them a lot of help with their work. You really want to save money on that? You can't be serious. So, I'd really like to ask you to answer some of these points. I'm gonna stop now. I think I've raised a lot of things. I'm curious about your opinion. Thank you. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-06-16-239	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Rebecca Szabó. This brings to an end the group of speakers that have been notified. I'm ordering a five-minute technical break before two minutes. (Speech: 23.03-23.09) President: Mr Sándor Lezsák Note: Sándor Berki)
u2023-06-16-240	My fellow Members, please take your seats. I call on the opposition representatives and the pro-government representatives to take their seats. They're two minutes away. Here's the order in the order of applications: Gurmai Zita, Z. Kárpát Dániel, Komáromi Zoltán, Kanász-Nagy Máté, Szabó Timea, Szeberényi Gyula Tamás and Hollik István. So, first of all, two minutes ago, Zita Gurmai, MSZP.
u2023-06-16-241	Thank you very much. I would like to deal with a specific matter, which I would definitely like to consider. My fellow Member, István Hiller, spoke about the traces that Covid left in our children. This is definitely linked to how many full-time school teachers will be in the next period. [[23.10]] It would be worth thinking about because the smaller the child, the more shocking the effect of Covid on children. So what I can tell you is that those who didn't have the opportunity to graduate, for example, so they have a shared experience, in some ways, are injured. So I think it would be worth considering in any way. Another matter I would also like to raise is the impact of excessive digitalization on our children, the destruction of language in some respects, when young people sit opposite each other and press their mobile phones, sometimes with their backs straight, sometimes with their backs bent. So I think there are a number of things that aren't just school... of course parents should get in some form and help. That's why I think it's important who the educator is. I'm sure I can say that my mother, too, has taught me for many years that it is decisive in the life of a student who has taught her first steps at school. Let's keep it safe. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-06-16-242	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai. For two minutes, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát is the betterman.
u2023-06-16-243	Mr President, Dear House, I am pleased that Mr Secretary of State is actively involved in this debate. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition. Dr. Zoltán Maruzsa Viktor presents his notes.]] Because he can say so, and he can confirm that he may not have consulted the Hungarian opposition with all the governments and leaders of the neighbouring countries, because just when we are discussing the bill before us, news of the teacher's wage arrangement in the neighbouring countries is coming up. And I was particularly touched by the Czech model, because here we have already faced an amount equal to HUF 795,000 as a teacher's wage, but here we have a condition that 130 percent of the average wage should be targeted for teachers' wages. I wish we could go this way in Hungary. But what's much worse than that is the Minister of Education's justification, where a round pretzel states that this amount must be provided by the state. So neither here nor in the Romanian example, I do not recall showing an external force field or any dimension that would determine this from the outside. The reason I would ask is that Mr Secretary of State maintains his claim that only after waiting for external or Brussels resources can teachers' wages be settled, because in December the budget was amended by means of a regulation. And, Secretary of State, the tax revenue previously expected for 7,000 billion was raised to 7900 billion in the regulation amendment. So here we have an unexpected $900 billion income on the government's side, which, without exaggerating, if not multiple, would be sufficient for full teacher wage development. My question is, therefore, that you can and can say that you have to wait for some kind of external force field on this issue, because I have now specifically marked the budgetary resource from which full wage planning could be carried out, even today. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-06-16-244	Thank you, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Zoltán Komáromi, a representative of DK, will come in two minutes.
u2023-06-16-245	I stopped there and said that I would still like to say that the European Strategy... [[Intercoms: Microphone!]]
u2023-06-16-246	Microphone, Congressman. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Let us hear it!]]
u2023-06-16-247	[[He's pinning his microphone. Nacsa Lőrinc: Because we drink your words!]] There's a reason. The Europe Strategy 2020, the issue of education, has not been a central issue of the European Union, but it has now become a central issue, and all the strategic documents therefore set out the priorities for education. One of the most important priorities is ensuring the competitiveness of the economy, the link between training and the labour market and strengthening social cohesion. Foreign language and infocommunication competences are valued, which greatly promote employment. A key issue is lifelong learning, to which children must be taught. And from then on, the improvement of the quality of education and training is clear. The Lisbon Strategy 2000 set out the objectives that the Member States of the European Union should have achieved by 2010. Moreover, the objectives set have not been fully met by several Member States, including Hungary. One reason for this is that the governments of the Member States have not taken this strategy seriously enough and there has not been sufficient cooperation between the Member States. The strategy was revised in 2010 and supplemented with new priorities, and this document, which is the 2020 strategy, was issued in 2010. I'd like to draw two out of it. The percentage of school dropouts should be reduced to less than 10%. And not the 14-year-olds and the 16-year-olds, because the next point is that 40 percent of the younger generation have a higher education degree. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: two minutes! Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi: Mr. President, isn't it two minutes? The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I feel that with this old age, this is exactly what is in great danger, and that is why Hungary will be left behind. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-06-16-248	Thank you, Congressman Zoltán Komáromi. I give the floor to Congressman Máté Kanász-Nagy, LMP.
u2023-06-16-249	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I have a specific question for the Secretary of State. In my speech, I mentioned the scope of staff directly assisting education. We're talking at least 36,000 employees who work in these jobs. They are teachers' assistants, medical teachers' assistants, school secretaries, preschool secretaries, labists, swimmers, leisure organisers, children's and youth guardians, librarians, administrators, so there are a lot of people who help teachers' work, and without their work, educational work in kindergartens and schools could not really be successful. I've tried to ask the government several times what they're going to do with their raises, but the last time I got the answer is how much their salary is this year. We know it's not too much, it's a guaranteed minimum wage plus 7 percent, and in case of a maintenance decision, it's an extra 3 percent. So this is the guaranteed minimum wage plus 10%. This is exactly gross HUF 326 040. This means practically HUF 216 thousand net. With 25 percent inflation this year, who knows what it's gonna be, 10, 15, 20 percent again. The question is how to make a living on this wage, but the bigger question is what is planned for them next year. When are you gonna tell me what a raise they're gonna get? I would certainly like to speak for them and represent their interests. And when we talk about educators, I think that this 36,000 employees should be represented, especially with 36,000 employees working in these jobs, but 14,000 are missing. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] There are so many unfilled jobs. How do colleagues get on the field when wages are so low? Thank you and I look forward to your reply. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-06-16-250	Thank you, Congressman Máté Kanász-Nagy. The next two-minute speaker is Congresswoman Szabó Timea, Dialogue.
u2023-06-16-251	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to pick up where Rebecca Szabó, representative of the Dialogue-Greens, has stopped saying what you mean by saving money, help us understand it a little bit. The government always determines what is important and what is less important, spends on important things, doesn't spend on less important things, doesn't spend on things that are less important. In next year's budget, we see items such as community wine marketing for HUF 3 billion, or we have just heard that the government has 1.5 billion forints for National Sport. That's 4.5 billion forints. I'd like to ask you why you're not spending this on the renovation of Péter Veres High School in Békásmegyeri. You've been promising to renovate this high school for years, it's in the top ten high schools in the country, but even if it was just 647, you'd have to spend money on it. It's been soaking wet for a couple of weeks because of the leak in the middle of the class. It's a good thing he didn't fall for a student or a teacher. After that, you said you gave me 90 million forints to fix this roof. Then, when I received an answer from Bence of Retvári, in which he was delighted to hear that it was being repaired, then it was soaked for a week, then the dining room and the hallway. So I ask you, what is more important for you, the renovation of a high school, which you have already put away 11 billion forints, only János Lázár generously pulled it down, or community wine marketing could not be interpreted by anyone for 3 billion forints or for saving National Sports. This is a political issue. It's a free choice, you chose the wine market, and we chose to renovate the schools. Thank you. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-06-16-252	Thank you, Congresswoman Timea Szabó. The next two-minute speaker is Gyula Tamás Szeberényi, Member Fidesz.
u2023-06-16-253	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I would like to come to the aid of Mrs Rebecca Szabó on her question on disciplinary action. [[23.20]] Here, several Members and gentlemen have mentioned what kind of teaching career they have entered in their previous lives. I worked as a school teacher, and I worked as a lawyer, and I was a lawyer in disciplinary proceedings, in two cases. In one case, a teacher went to school drunk, and in the other case, he slapped a child. Both cases were subject to disciplinary action. In both cases, it wasn't the strictest punishment imposed by the school leadership, and it wasn't because the child forgave me, agreed, that there wasn't so much alcohol influence. If there is no disciplinary action, the Director may do two things: either fire him or impose no sanctions on him. If there is a disciplinary action, you can apply interim sanctions to redirect it back to normal behavior. That is simply the reason why there is disciplinary action. What I don't understand is what Congresswoman doesn't understand. [[Szabó Timea: Well, all of it!]]
u2023-06-16-254	Thank you very much, Congressman Gyula Szeberényi.
u2023-06-16-255	[[Towards Szabó Timea:]] Then I can't help that.
u2023-06-16-256	The last two-minute comment is Congressman István Hollik, the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2023-06-16-257	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We've been here for over seven and a half hours now, and it's become very clear what we said at the beginning that you came in here to create a mood. The proposal we have ahead of us, and the one about the pedagogical career, you don't care, you don't read it, you don't talk about it. And the facts obviously don't interfere with their clarity. There was only one speech which was not full of hatred, which belonged to our fellow Member, István Hiller. [[Kálmán Olga: Well, I knew it! That's great. Applause in DK's ranks.]] But the thing is, it's not about the teaching career, it's about the general global challenges of knowledge transfer. This is an important debate. [[Continued intervention from opposition lines. The president's ringing the bell.]] But I have a feeling, after listening to our fellow Member Anna Orosz, that István Hiller and Anna Orosz would probably have a bigger debate on this issue than, by the way, István Hiller and you do. After all, I understand you were of the opinion that you wouldn't let the kids sweat in your PE class. [[Kálmán Olga: That's not what he said!]] In geography class, we do not have to learn the Hungarian rivers, so that we do not have to learn the years in history class. [[Kálmán Olga: Comprehension! Words!]] But regardless, I'm saying this is an important debate, but it's not worth confusing with the careers of teachers. This debate is supposed to be here, although, I'll say it again, I know that's not why you're here. It would be good if we could finally hear speeches about what is in the law and what is being criticized about it. [[Moray from the opposition ranks. Kálmán Olga: We say nothing else!]] what's wrong with them. The gross $800,000? They seem to have a problem with that. [[Continued intervention from opposition lines. The president's ringing the bell.]] because you are not helping us to achieve this, because you are fighting to get European funds and EU funds. [[Szabó Timea: Oh, come on!]] But be kind, after seven and a half hours, at last make such criticisms of content [[Kálmán Olga: How many times have we told you? The president's ringing the bell.]] which, at last, the Secretary of State could respond to. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-06-16-258	Thank you very much, Congressman István Hollik. Before we move to the group of speakers that have been announced, I will also give the floor to State Secretary Zoltán Maruzsa. [[Uproar and applause in the opposition benches.]]
u2023-06-16-259	Thank you, thank you. I, too, always listen to Congressman Hiller's voice, because they say that he was in charge of a ministry, and he has considerable professional experience. You are absolutely right that the school of the future will be something different than the school we run today or have been operating for the past decades. One of the key issues is, indeed, that this generation, who reads differently, looks at a different screen, how to address education and education, how to enjoy teaching material. I think we do a lot for this, absolutely; not only paper textbooks, but also smart textbooks, and the development of various digital materials, I think the government does pay great attention. I think it is important to see that this bill contains novums in this regard. It is worth looking at the details that amend Nkt., where, in connection with the KRÉTA system, it is by far regulated not only by a learning system, but also by creating a digital platform from the KRÉTA that will know much more and will have the ability to provide students with a knowledge content from their measurement data in a way that is virtually customizable to the students in addition to teaching knowledge transfer. I think it's going to be a next step. [[Kálmán Olga: Yes, because he will no longer be a teacher!]] ; I think it is a global initiative that can be undertaken and promoted. I wanted to tell you this because Congressman Hiller said he missed that in the law. But there is such a part; this is specifically, I think, a part of it that is done in order to digitise education, which I am actually recommending to all Members. There has not yet been one word about this, but by far not only will the KRÉTA be a learning system in the future, but also a platform that will be able to support home learning and independent learning. We have already spoken about this in a few sentences on the speech by Congressman Komárom out in the hall. I do not think that is true in the way it has been said that vocational training is no longer possible to graduate. [[Dr. Zoltán Komáromi: No further education!]] Of course, vocational training also has a way of graduating. Moreover, in recent years, the coordination of vocational training and higher education has grown to the extent that VET content has also been converted into training and output requirements and contains specific forward-looking directions in all areas of training, in the areas of further education, progress and credit calculation. [[Dr. Zoltán Komáromi: The Ministry seems so.]] Fortunately, this is not the Ministry of the Interior, but another ministry, because vocational training and higher education are not our portfolio. But I can see the development that is being done there, and I think it is a very forward-looking development which, by the way, fully complies with European principles, because here the inclusion of knowledge, credit and knowledge, recognition of it is an absolute trendy thing. With regard to Anna Russian's contribution, I would like to point out that there is no rule on when the school start is, by the way, in stone. There's only one rule, which says you can't start teaching before 7:15. That's exactly why they don't even think about starting class zero earlier. But, by the way, school autonomy is entirely about when they start education. And by doing so, the school that wants to live is alive; in this ministry, the government does not limit them in any way. So if somewhere the decision is that they want to start the first class at 7:45 or 8:20, then we're not taking any brake or blocking action. I also think it is worth seeing how many battles our age have learned the exact, up-to-date dates and what has to be learned from geography. I think, and I say as a historian, that when I looked at the first professional proposal, my heart was bleeding for a lot of dates, but I knew exactly that really, today, we don't have to teach so much, because these dates can be found on the web in seconds; in my childhood, when we were kids, it wasn't that way. I think it's a fraction of what needs to be learned up-to-date today. If I experience this in a school, they teach me more than that, then, by the way, I have to say, it belongs to the school teacher's autonomy circle. I can also see, in my own children, that they are taught far away not only the NAT curriculum, but also that he is used to this, and this, and that he is accountable, so we say that we do not limit it, because in his professional freedom it must be included to a certain extent. But I really suggest to any parent, but even to any Member who would like to look at what is in NAT and what is being asked of children, they will find that it is not NAT, it is not the government that regulates it here, and it does make it compulsory for thousands of years to learn up-to-date. So I think a lot has changed in this area, and it is far from the way that Anna Russian said it. I really suggest that the NAT should be taken up in this area. [[23.30]] Tamás Harangozó took a detour in relation to the checking of teachers. I would like to point out that there is no change in this, so there is no digital platform so far or in the future, no control plan that works that way. The Labour Code contains general rules for all employees, which have always been applicable to teachers. In the draft of 2 March, this has been revised literally, but if you look at the proposal submitted, you can see that we have taken it out of it, precisely because the government did not intend to make any changes here. The issue of leeway between pay bands. Indeed, it is difficult to change the mindset that we now have a very rigid system, which records 114 pay categories, and compared to that comes a new wage structure, where the director will have a large enough professional freedom to determine teachers' wages. Now, the thing is, in many cases, if, let's say, the educator tries to make a wage deal, he gets the answer, but, well, that's what the law says, that's what we pay, that's what we pay. For the future, I think that it will change in substance, and it will have to change. And when you talk about the shortage in some areas and the difficulty of finding a workforce, this is exactly what will handle it, because the head of the institution will have much more flexibility in making it possible to differentiate in wages on the basis of the available wage weight, to say yes to a worker's request, and thus to provide the workforce for himself and, obviously, for children in school, including in the field of IT, where the labour market has a very high impact. In the area of freedom of expression, it is also worth looking at the document submitted to Rebecca Szabó. It doesn't contain anything about freedom of speech. In the version of 2 March, there was a previous revision of the Labour Code; we also missed this, left it, and there is nothing on this subject in the new bill. I also consider weighing to be important. It is also worth seeing how many times this figure is in the National Basics, I would like to record it. So it's not about what we get a lot of times, because the government wants to see a lot of people who don't think about it in the world, because they can be well controlled. It's completely lacking any basis. [[Kálmán Olga: True!]] In his comment, Dániel Z. Carpathian discovered an additional VAT income. I would have been the happiest if, in addition to this extra income, there had been no additional expenditure. However, we all know in this room that this is far from the case, because the rise in the price of electricity and the increase in the price of energy have also brought additional expenditure of HUF 4000 billion in addition to the emergence of individual revenues. I can tell Matthew Kanász-Nagy that those who directly assist in the educational work are, of course, very important to us as well. We've increased their numbers, by the way. If someone looks back at the statistics on how many there were in 2010 and how many there are now, then we can basically talk about almost doubling, not just 36 thousand, but 40 thousand. And indeed, they do a lot of work, they can do where teachers are freed from burdens, and yet they are able to provide children with safe supervision and assistance-development functions that they can be perfectly prepared for. That is why they are subject to separate wage regulation. We are trying to make a bigger increase here, too, from the wage weight that we can provide to the institutions. Of course, I will respond to the keynote speeches later, at the end of the debate. I know it's gonna be a long time, so I'm saving the biggest thoughts. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] But, of course, I won't be indebted to them either. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-06-16-260	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Zoltán Maruzsa. Dear Parliament, Preliminary speeches will follow, within a 15-minute time frame, in the order of the application: Zoltán Varga, Miklós Hajnal, Zsolt Molnár and Sándor Berki. First, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Varga, DK.
u2023-06-16-261	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Well, we've been sitting here for seven hours trying to convince each other of something. And before we hit it, let me have two service announcements. One of them is for the Secretary of State. Well, I see you're sad. Don't be sad, Mr. Secretary. Sometimes e-mails go wrong. It happens. In fact, don't be sad because what you wrote there is a long time ago; so you are burned not only by lying, but also by stealing. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Nana, nana!]] It's been on sale for a long time. I suppose it's a little sad that you might start your morning at Carmelita, but I'm rooting for you to come out of there with your head held high. My other statement of service is addressed to Mr Siberényi, and perhaps to Mr Hollik, a little to the point. There is a truth in what you say that today's debate is not really about the law. I think they're right about that. We haven't been discussing laws in this House for, like, 10 to 13 years. Actually, we're discussing a petty, vindictive kleptocracy. [[Defiance from opposition ranks. Lőrinc Nacsa, pointing to the opposition side: Even they are laughing at you!]] and all its appendices. So that's what this debate is really about, and I'm sorry that you guys have to sit here; well, I guess it's a job requirement, and you're assigned. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You're assigned! You guys are in charge. The president's ringing the bell.]] But, for some reason, a lot of money sometimes comes at a price. And to give you a good news after the two service announcements: I don't know, he heard of it, hallelujah, I think we should look to heaven, give thanks to heaven: the Dacha of the Orbán family is finally ready. [[More on the pro-government side, what?]] It's his dacha. You know, Putin has one, your boss has to have one. They're about to fill the swimming pools. Unfortunately, the fountain isn't working yet. Let's just say I don't understand why the library's in it, but there's got to be a spiritual reason for that, actually, it's irrelevant. This dacha cost roughly the annual budget of a Hungarian city. And it's too bad they can't run out to the protest teachers right now, because they could tell them we're here, people. [[István Hollik and Lőrinc Nacsa: There is no one in the square! The president's ringing the bell.]] teachers also have the fruits of their multi-annual, lengthy work in Hatvanpuszta, as well as ten million Hungarians. At last it turned out that not only Viktor Orbán's dear daughter Rachel stood on our feet, but also Viktor Orbán's dear father. [[Nacsa Lárinc, holding his head, say that from the Little Fork.]] Hallelujah! And speaking of which, I have to admit, while I was sitting here listening to the debate, I was thinking, was everyone in Carmelita really crazy anyway? Is this really where the heads of government of Karmelita, built from hundreds of billions of forints of investment, are kept, behind the walls of the tall walls and the Kartalmists, dressed as Captain America or Iron Man, who snarl at children? [[István Hollik: What's wrong with leavened cucumbers?]] Is this really where we're going? You really don't feel how surreal and sick your world is? [[Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi: What are you talking about?]] Sick for a castle, with a penny, with an eye-wielding fake Christian and a stolen fortune. Here, in parentheses, I'd like to remember... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Talk about the law! Intercoms from the pro-government side. The president's ringing the bell.]] Feel free to press the button, Congressman. We're free. I'm sure I'll be here till 6:00 A.M. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: But there is no schedule! Defiance.]] Or maybe 10:00. [[Intercoms and information in the pro-government benches.]] So I'm totally free. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] No, it's my own well-managed time. [[Intercoms.]] [[23.40]] As a lesson to you, the Ten Commandments expressly forbid theft. [[Intercoms from the benches of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2023-06-16-262	Congressman, if you'll excuse me, I'd like the government representatives to listen with greater patience until 6:00 a.m.
u2023-06-16-263	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We could use a little encouragement, too, because it looks like the MPs on the government are breaking loose. [[Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi: Don't get your hopes up.]] Well, back then, I don't know how much of stolen property you're aware of, I don't really roll the Bible, but it's in the Bible, regardless of how you don't steal, and any form of theft is forbidden. Sooner or later, I hope they'll get to the point where they're gonna find out. So what we're saying is that you don't feel how surreal and sick your world is? including all appendices. I have included in this new aristocracy of belching, sniveling NER, the Nobel Prize-winning butcher of economics, and, well, the golden boy, István T. Of course, obviously these are poetic speeches, questions, because of course, you don't feel, you don't see, you don't know... In fact, you haven't seen much of anything in years, because that is the center of the world itself, the Pancho Arena, and your world will end at the edge of Felsút. You can see that even your boss, you have about one god, and it's called money, a special kind of money, that's just public money. Of course, for this public money, you don't have to work, you don't need individual performance, you don't even need a brain, you see that, you don't have to read it, you don't even have to write it very much, then you write it for yourself. In this world, in your world, it's useless, even harmful to think, to think, only to cause trouble. All you need is loyalty and sergilism, of course. The servile bowing up, sometimes a kiss, a kiss towards the Carmelite, of course, and an unscrupulous treading down toward the people. The rest will be arranged for you, a few more hundred billion for propaganda, and, of course, instead of education, instead of health care, instead of strengthening the social network, and, well, we can see that everything is on track for you. But in fact, you're wrong, because the reality that your world, your propaganda, your lies, or your disgusting blue billboards, your public money billings and paid adverts, is your institutionalized government brainwashing, because the reality that you've been trying to hide from us for 13 years, from ten million Hungarians, well, it's not like that. Because as much as they want to do the opposite, man, the Hungarian man is also genetically curious. Yet curiosity is nothing more than a desire for knowledge, and as much as it pains you, there are those in the majority, for whom it is not enough for a despot in his power to preach a verb on one of the propaganda transmitters on Friday mornings, and there he will tell his people the truth. And that's your problem. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Infinitely embarrassing.]] Your problem is that they think of Hungarian society in such a way that it is the world of the jugglers, your servants, and the jugglers should not be curious, they should not know, they should not read, they should not learn. I said, don't, just believe. [[Nacsa Lárinc: Hands in pocket...]] I'm gonna put my hand in my pocket like this. Believe what the farmer will lay before them on Fridays out of the slop bucket called the public service, who they should hate, who they should be afraid of, and who they will protect us from next week, from whom the king of all salesmen and cokes will protect us. You remember, well, your boss used to be very, very proud of that, and he's been talking less about it lately, and he seems to be the sufferer of these actions. Plus, he tells us what we can think about the world for a week, and then the next week, we think the exact opposite. And you obviously don't need schools for that, and you don't. I would like to open a parentheses here, because there is an eloquent example of this, and that is Mr. Ripper, who has made billions with about one school. Your Lordship Ripper earns a net monthly salary of HUF 340 thousand per minute. Every minute! Do you know how much this money is? Of course they do. It's a 44-year-old master's monthly salary per minute. I mean, he probably didn't even see school in his dreams. So here we are. Knowledge is, in their own opinion, dangerous, system-aliened, persecuted, and it is clear that there could be a professional debate about what would be necessary in order for Hungary to finally break out of this crazy negative spiral. [[István Hollik: I need a shadow government! Nacsa Lőrinc: It's a goddamn democracy!]] I must add that I think it could not only be, but it should be. There is only one obstacle to all of this, honourable MPs and ladies, and this is none other than you. You know, you're not the solution to the problem, you're the problem. And we know that, but in fact, you know that: education is or could mean the future for Hungary. [[Nacsa Lawrence: You could have used it.]] As he reported in many countries, the Dutch, the Finns, the Swedes, all the northern peoples, but also the Estonians and even the Slovaks. The only thing is, you don't really care, because your kids go to expensive foreign schools. We know very well, well, we know very well, you know that Rachel has graduated from one of the most expensive schools in Switzerland, one of the world's first universities. He may have, they have money, they can afford, they can afford our money, everyone else here in Hungary knowledge is obviously limited. And this abomination before us, which you call the status law, is actually revenge, a mean, petty revenge just because your boss feels the need to take revenge on those who dare to raise their heads, who dare to speak. We've seen this before in other cases, you know, I'll extend it to Bicsk. This is exactly the same principle: I will extend it to Bicsk. Hungarian people do not need knowledge, because to vote, to listen to propaganda, does not need a school, it is enough to open the radio on Fridays. The Hungarian people will be good for the battery companies operator, shoveling lithium, working with carcinogens, working in potentially flammable places. Thus, in the eyes of the course in Orbán, it is not a pity for the Hungarian teacher, well, we see that they, like all other sectoral workers, either in the social sphere or elsewhere, listen to his name, listen to his name. Vote's still good, but don't talk, don't talk. Don't protest, because you can't do that here. Power doesn't like to be protested here, and, of course, we know that old, well-established formula, that's what everyone has been doing from Nazi Germany through the Bolsheviks, of course, apart from tear gas, that's nothing but bureaucratic. It will bring laws that will depend on the sword of Damocles and threaten the system aliens. And then there will be order, and then the laws will settle this, nota bene the scribes, those who are willing to give any knowledge to the future, our children and grandchildren, must be threatened. Gently, sophisticatedly, we'll make laws, and then we'll show them, and we'll extend them to Bicsk, you know, that's how it works. And, well, it doesn't matter to you and nobody, the boss is the only one, it doesn't matter whether you're a member of the EU or a member of the EU, because you're well aware that there won't be any money, and you know that the peacock dance that's worked so far has been over for almost a year. [[23.50]] Their solo dancer failed in his own foot, no one believes him beyond the Lajno. What we see is that if your boss goes out somewhere, in one of the civilized European countries, [[Nacsa Lőrinc: We are not a civilized country...]] I'm sure we won't have what the boss's coming home to. [[Dr. Gurmai Zita: That's true!]] That's what you have, that's what you have. This is the Karmelita's revenge, wrapped in a saniol with the signature of a police minister, of course, and we see that the law factory is being blown up before the Prime Minister's normal summer leave, that's why they're sitting here. Poor people, well, you're in charge, and the Vengeance Act has to be passed through Parliament, that's the job. And that's obviously why you're sitting here, Mr. Secretary, because that's the job. It's obviously the worst thing for him, and I'm willing to risk wishing all of this to hell right now, but, well, go ahead, because the Lord of Carmelita needs to be served. And he wants revenge. Silence, order and discipline, that's your password. The police minister knows what to do, he'll do it, he'll do it, the Lord of Carmelita, the despot of his power wants to sleep. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the opposition. Nacsa Lőrinc: Shame on you, it's embarrassing even for you!]] [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2023-06-16-264	Have a nice evening. Ladies and gentlemen, Welcome. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Miklós Dawn, Momentum Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-06-16-265	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Here we have heard a number of criticisms of the other side of the horseshoe that opposition representatives would not deal with the concrete bill before us, or that there would be no professional arguments. I've been listening to the debate in this horseshoe for the last hour, not only through television, but I've heard professional arguments. State Secretary Maruzsa has even begun to respond to these, and I hope that she will respond to all the other arguments that have been made. I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is not a coincidence that there is not a purely professional debate here, but also a political debate. [[Robert Szigó: It's really not a coincidence...]] It is not a coincidence, because we know precisely that your motivation behind this law is not professional, but political. So the only reason behind each political speech is the only reason, and the only argument is that we know that you are not making this law because you want to improve the education system, not because you want to make adjustments to the education system, but because you want to get revenge on teachers. That is why we call this proposal the Vengeance Act. But what you have suggested, let us play the professional debate, and I am curious that the Secretary of State may have opened it to this game. I brought it to this professional debate in ammunition from the Hungarian Helsinki Committee, civil society organization, I'm sure you know it well. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Is this Alex or the Gyuri?]] A little comment, a little comment. In total, I would like to read to you three comments, and I think in your spare time you have not read this in your extremely deep professional preparation, which is why you should hear the comments of the Helsinki Committee. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Don't you have your own thoughts?]] Firstly, among the comments on the draft, I would like to highlight the comments made on the labour law situation of those in employment in general education. [[Sic!]] Thus, according to the general justification, the primary aim of the legislation is to provide an explanation: to increase the attractiveness of the pedagogical career. Now, the question would be, if this is the purpose of the explanation, and I'm jumping out of the comments here, then why is it that on an extraordinary meeting day, why is it that Friday night, mid-June, yes, we are not even discussing it at the beginning of Friday night, nor at the regular session? [[Nacsa Lőrinc: We have to work, we have to work!]] , not in the ordinary session... If your primary objective, as stated in the explanatory statement, is to increase the attractiveness of the pedagogical career, then why hasn't this law been tabled before? Why don't you guys blow this whole country wide open? Why aren't you proud of this law? But that was a little caution from the comments. Let's look at your legal analysis of the Helsinki Committee. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: If you no longer have your own?]] According to the general justification, the primary objective of the legislation is to increase the attractiveness of the pedagogical careers, as it is particularly important to have a sufficient number of dedicated teachers and educators in kindergartens and schools with adequate skills and quality work to enforce the fundamental rights of children. In the light of this objective, it is difficult for the Helsinki Commission to understand that, as several professional and representative organisations have pointed out, the draft would make a number of changes that would clearly and explicitly complicate the labour law situation of teachers, while the promised wage development is only conditionally undertaken by the government. Provisions in this direction, without the need for completeness: the possibility to extend the school year until 15 July, the possibility to apply a six-month working time limit, the extension of the probation period from four to six months, and the increase of the maximum period of resignation from two to six months. In this context, particular attention should be paid to the 60-day exemption period, which was included in the draft of 2 March, which was expressed in the opinion of 52. It had §2 instead of the current regulation, according to which the exemption period would be at least 60 days, up to 8 months, and its length increased by the number of years spent at work. The latter provision also clearly goes against the declared purpose of the draft, since it will in no way make the career of a teacher more attractive, but also violates the principles of ownership in relation to the protection of legitimate expectations for those who have a legitimate expectation of a longer period of discharge due to their legal status at the time of entry into force of the law and, as such, of a higher amount in respect of the salary due to the discharge period. The Constitutional Court acknowledges that the legal expectations, public-law expectations, are protected by the Fundamental Law XIII. This is the right to property as set out in Article 3029/2018 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. AB can be found in a decision. Since the remuneration for the discharge period is a legal expectation, the requirements of the Constitutional Court in relation to the right to property should be applied to it. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: AB also states that the restriction of the right to property, including the limitation of the sub-license of ownership, is unconstitutional, more precisely against fundamental law, if it is unavoidable, therefore without compelling reasons, and if the weight of the restriction is disproportionate to the objective pursued by the restriction. On the one hand, apart from the possibility of constitutional exceptions, the State is obliged to refrain from entering the ownership sphere of private or legal persons and on the other hand to create a legal environment, an institutional guarantee that makes the right to property operational without discrimination. 3009/2012. AB decision, explanatory statement. In addition, the Constitutional Court has held that there is also a right of fundamental rights protection for those who have an undisputed title to acquire ownership. This item is without doubt, if it is clear, it is Article 3387/2012. AB grounds for order and 3177/2014. subpoenas found in the grounds for AB's order. Thus, in this case, a radical reduction in the period of exemption is also considered to be a withdrawal of the right to property due to a reduction in the salary due to the discharge period. And then I would like to quote the opinion of the Helsinki Committee. In accordance with the Constitutional Court's practice, it is against the law if it is done without compelling reasons. As the justification of the draft itself states that the aim of the regulation is to ensure the right and other fundamental rights of children to education through the attractiveness of the pedagogical field, it can be concluded that there are no compelling reasons in line with the declared aim of the draft, which justify the reduction of the expectation, since it makes the pedagogical career just less attractive and thus jeopardises the fundamental rights of children. I'm not saying, we don't say, the Hungarian Helsinki Committee says, professional opinion, with a lot of constitutional lawyers. Let's hope they consider that. But let's look at further comments. Comments on the legal and advocacy options of those in the public education employment relationship. In addition to the fact that the draft would generally undermine the labour law situation of those working in education and training institutions, it also clearly shows a specific tendency to undermine the interests of teachers, to severely restrict their professional autonomy and to increase their vulnerability to teaching districts. One part of this is the assignment of a different place of task. One of the most striking signs of this is the regulation of the draft on strike. The draft is a new 84/A. It would include a clause in the National Public Education Act, which provides that if the operation of a public education institution with a state reserve cannot be temporarily ensured due to the combined effect of unlawful or unlawful cessations of work, the maintainer of the public education institution, on the basis of the indication, designates a different place of responsibility for the institution concerned, or can even terminate or reorganize not only schools but also whole educational institutions. [[0.00]] So you can terminate or reorganize entire school facilities. That's what you wrote in the bill. By Act V of 2022 on regulatory issues relating to the cessation of an emergency, the legislator had already severely damaged teachers by Article XVII of the Fundamental Law. The right to cease work in Article 4 of the Treaty, when it regulates still sufficient services in such a way that teachers' strike becomes virtually incomprehensible to parents and, as such, to society. The function of the strike is to provide workers who are in many respects vulnerable to the employer with a means of enforcing their claims for the purpose of pursuing their common economic and social interests and thus expressing their views on a case of employment that is essential to them. If the right to strike can only be exercised without causing any disruption to the employer and thus remaining undetected in the outside world, its essential content will be restricted, as the pressure-training function of the strike is being lost. By the way, in order not only to quote the Helsinki Commission, 3065/2022. It is also laid down in the Ab Decision that maintaining the service still sufficient and the employer's proper functioning or the smooth performance of a public service is not the same as the legal institution for the cessation of work as the instrument of advocacy. The cessation of work is an obstacle to the maintenance of the employer's normal functioning. I will continue with the opinion of the Helsinki Committee. The solution to the draft is that the maintenance position can be designated by 84th. In the cases set out in Section 2 of this Article, which we are talking about, it means further impairment of the right to strike, as it allows, on the one hand, the removal of education from the institution where the strike is taking place and, on the other hand, the elimination of this institution, i.e. it creates the conditions for evacuating the strike and, on the other hand, it is capable of turning the teachers to whom the 84/A is used against the striker. The decisions taken pursuant to Section 3 of the Act increase their workload significantly. In addition, in the Hungarian education system, which is at the limit of its ability to perform, which is also evident from some of the solutions of the draft, such as the fact that it plans to significantly reduce the minimum proportion of full-time employees, or the possibility of applying unfinished university students to full independent pedagogical work, it is obviously an illusion that teachers at the other place of task will be able to provide education of the quality that is close to the right ones. Although the draft therefore contains explicit declarations that efforts should be made to ensure that all children, pupils and children concerned receive adequate quality and quantity of education, it is also evident that the provisions contained therein are contrary to the objectives of the draft, so that the limitation of fundamental rights may be considered not to be legitimate, and therefore not to be necessary. I'm going to continue with the rules of extraordinary acquittal. The draft is linked to the limitation of the rights and interest of teachers 53. Article 2 of the Act, which also applies to the rules of the exceptional exemption. Although this is not mentioned in the explanatory memorandum, the opinion of the legislative body takes over the 4/2023 on certain emergency rules concerning the functioning of public education institutions. the regulatory concept of a government regulation. Regulation XXXIII of 1992 on the status of civil servants for civil servants and workers employed in public education institutions Law 33/A Article 78 of the Law on the Labour Code of 2012 and Article 78 of the Law on the Law on the Law on Labour Code. It provides for derogations from the rules on exceptional waivers and immediate terminations for the duration of an emergency. At this point again, I would like to jump out of the text and reflect on the fact that Mr Secretary of State has also mentioned that the draft has changed since 2 March. We'd be happiest if you hadn't even submitted this draft. So what I can tell you about this is that whatever corrections you have made, it can't be a sufficient correction, it can't be sufficient that you may have written something in the draft, when you realized that you didn't want it to be removed. It would be best for you to think of the whole law as not wanting it and taking it out of Parliament. In view of these, the employer shall continue the text with the public staff or employees concerned, and in essence may exercise, at any time, the right of extraordinary dismissal and the right of immediate termination, based on their certain conduct, from the knowledge of it, and possibly until 1 August of the following academic year. It is clear from the justification of the regulation that the regulation aims at preventing acts protected by the right to freedom of expression, including civil disobedience by teachers, and taking into account the fact that the draft is set at 84/A. § 53 of the Act explicitly refers to unlawful cessations of work, on the basis of which it can be stated that the legislator is a Member State of the European Union. However, when setting the time limit for the exemption, it was also intended to respond to the civil disobedience movement of teachers. The draft aims to bring the provisions of the regulation to a legal level and to perpetuate them, but we believe that this solution is contrary to fundamental law in many respects. According to the generally accepted definition of civil disobedience, it is an open, nonviolent, yet political act referring to the conscience, by which the law is broken, and usually in order to bring about a change in law or government policy. Anyone who engages in such a thing will appeal to the conscience of the majority to express his deep conviction: I have offended the principles that form the basis of social cooperation between free and equal people. Mr. Secretary. Dear Presents! I would like to ask you to listen to the voice of civil disobedience and, if possible, to withdraw this law in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-06-16-266	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Molnár, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2023-06-16-267	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, It's a new day, new hopes, because we can welcome Saturday after midnight. I am in a very easy position, because I think I must do nothing but reap the credit, because it is clear that what happened in Kossuth Square and the comments of my fellow Members in the last many hours have led to no other result than that Mr Secretary of State stands up in minutes and announces the good news that this law has been withdrawn. It is clear that the arguments made in Kossuth Square, which my fellow Members have said, have drawn the line of defence around the Secretary of State and the draft law very poorly, so that it has collapsed and there is nothing else to do but to back off and to give up this fight. Indeed, Mr Secretary of State does the most for teachers, so he is entitled to pay for the whole cause and even some kind of remuneration if he stands up with honor and rightly in this late or early hour, it is a matter of opinion, stands up and withdraws it. If you do not do so, this proposal is a brutal attack not only on the pedagogical society but also on national cohesion. I didn't miss history class at the time when I had to learn the years. This proposal was submitted on 6 June, before midnight, 79 years after landing on Normandy. Minutes ago it was the 16th of June, and on this terrible 1958 day, 65 years ago, following the execution of Imre Nagy, not only the body of Imre Nagy was placed in the coffin, but also the national independence. I therefore ask you, now, on this day, also from 16 June to 17 June, because on the 16th this debate, the future generation, should not put knowledge in this coffin for decades, because it would indeed be a brutal attack on national cohesion. So there is a karakan solution: it must be withdrawn, it can be restarted, it is the smallest loss of prestige, because it has happened, so there is no question that the arguments, attacks and public will have collapsed on the basis of this line of defense. The people out there have decided that this should be withdrawn, and indeed at the next protest they will demand his resignation, the government's departure. Therefore, here and now, you can think about how it is worth pushing the strings, because it is a hot summer. After the rainy May-June, there will be a warm period in all aspects, not just the Pride in particular. [[Dr. Gyula Tamás Szeberényi: We didn't even think about it!]] How did we get here, this law? You've violated customary law. There's a civilized way of dealing with such a major social change called the status law. Neither the written law nor the laws in force nor the customary law, of course. [[0.10]] That we are not looking for those responsible solely in a ministry, or in the person of the Secretary of State and the Minister, this is all that has been brought here, a product of the NER. That's why I said this is an attack on the nation. Congressman Nacsa ran out, but he'll be accounted for in Tusnad Bath. It's an easy track, and you'll have to face what you've done with this case, what you've done with the nation. It is an interesting question how this text changes after negotiations. Under the cover of the night, there will be new turns in this respect, which is very wrong, and somehow it will not succeed in achieving the final state of this proposal, only when there are no premonitional settlements. What are you guys doing a brutal attack on? Obviously, interest representatives, trade unions, everything that protects autonomy, civil servants, employees, are not desirable in your country. Obviously, it is possible to learn from Mussolini, Franco, how to make a social arrangement where advocacy is not built from the bottom up. Then the pedagogical freedom of teaching, which would give educators some sort of ideological, cultural space, must also be eliminated. Why the internship system and the school psychology system are in any way wound up, difficult, impossible, we do not know, so it is not worth disguising this fight as a professional debate, because it is obviously not a professional debate, it is much more. However, why the autonomy of the educational bodies, the freedom to decide is impaired and why they have the right to vote instead of the decision... We all know what a right to an opinion means: we have to listen to them about nothing, formally, but the director decides that the director in your system will turn into a school spa who will decide everything in one person the way the government wants. Obviously, the fact that the institution of extraordinary acquittal, this 15-day rule, is re-established, does not strengthen confidence in this. No doubt, I am not personally one of those who think that you are preordained to cause the nation to die with every decision, measure and bill, but that in the long term can have consequences that go far beyond a status law. It is not even about raising wages, because knowledge, future generations, youth are far beyond that. Obviously, it should also be asked that a teacher can be expected to work 12 hours a day, because with our most precious treasures, our children, teachers have such a situation, so it is a huge mistake to expect them to perform such performance. Obviously, in the legal sense, we also have to face the fundamental law violations, as there will be excellent lawyers, although we appreciate the Helsinki Committee, of course, but the Hungarian Socialist Party will have excellent lawyers who will win this battle in front of the Constitutional Court. Here I will tell you how this has happened, not so long ago, a year ago, when we won a battle before the Constitutional Court in connection with the unscrupulous integration of Lake Balaton. Thank you to my fellow Members, many of them were members of the previous Parliament, for signing and winning this battle. I feel that this battle will continue in this respect at the Constitutional Court. How did we get here to talk about a culture fight disguised as a status law like this? It is understandable that the inclusion of wage increases and the intention to raise wages are the carrots of this, which may even be regarded as well-meaning, has distracted attention from what is behind the bill. This increase in wages has to be subject to conditions, a significant part of the EU's money, which is not fair and fair, because it is a matter of national competence, the Hungarian budget has to produce this increase in wages, and if there is an increase in wages, it has to be respected, there is no way to put teachers in a dependent position, especially those who start their careers. But perhaps, most importantly, what this debate is really about. Obviously, it's about political gimmicks and mood swings, because we'd like to have exactly the kind of mood that you'd like to withdraw. I suppose there is no opposition Member who does not think that the aim of the mood is to get up fairly and say that he has considered everything, considered everything, and withdraws this proposal. But it's not really about the status law. It was worth going to history class, because I believe we're dealing with a history teacher here. It is also possible that Mr Secretary of State's long-term future will be in education rather than in the State Secretary's seat. [[Dr. Zoltán Maruzsa Viktor: That's for sure!]] If you don't decide to withdraw it now. In fact, this issue is not even about teaching careers or wage planning, it is about a nation becoming competitive in the future in the harsh fight that is taking place between nations and peoples in the fields of knowledge, the preparation of future generations, innovation, and in this area it is not right to take away this opportunity from future generations. Therefore, we ask you to consider very quickly, we have a few more hours for this and to withdraw, start this discussion again. I think that this social consultation cannot be conducted in the process of a ministry alone, that it cannot be formally agreed with the factions, that it cannot be checked out, but that there must be real involvement of organisations, civil society organisations, teachers themselves, opposition parties themselves, and that it is also worth consulting the party factions to get to know this draft in good time. Then it is possible to get there that there really is a law that raises wages at the same time and does not make them dependent on some kind of EU money. I would add that we patriotic social democrats would work to ensure that we have these European Union funds in every situation, and that we do not make it dependent on any other conditions and collect signatures, at the most so that Gyula Horn's name can be guarded by a promenade. However, it is your responsibility that you cannot mislead teachers who now believe that you will receive an unconditional wage increase. My sister's a teacher. She's delusional. You may not be watching this debate, because the school year has just ended, but many of your colleagues also believe that this is a real wage increase. It will be very difficult for you to explain why this did not happen, it will not be possible here, I do not know, to turn a dollar, it will not be possible to turn a candle, it will be your responsibility. Indeed, we must agree with you that a nation is determined by knowledge, national cohesion, future generation and youth, that we will live in this Carpathian Basin for hundreds of years, that the Hungarian will be the language most spoken in the Carpathian Basin. This requires education, knowledge that is unimaginable without good teachers who believe in the matter. Now you're going to discredit the pedagogical society, you're going to discredit students who might be thinking about wanting to be educators. I answer: they don't want to, so they'll be the ones who want to serve a regime. They will not serve the future generation, and they will not serve the survival of Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin for another thousand years. I could talk about the rest of the minutes, but that would be self-repetition. Tamás Harangozó, my fellow Member, has listed all the professional arguments, and I wanted to give them political points in particular. But, I'm telling you, you still have the opportunity to withdraw with the slightest loss of prestige. I'm thinking that maybe at night this argument is to withdraw with the slightest loss of prestige at night, because if it were during the day, it would have a much greater publicity for the press. Suddenly, in the morning, people would wake up and say that you have withdrawn it, in fact, that it comes from the nature of things. I have resolved that this debate is because they will be able to escape this weekend, waiting for the school year to end, waiting for it to be an extraordinary period, waiting for it to be Saturday on Friday, and now they can escape. The protest is over, it's gonna look like nothing happened, it's gonna be withdrawn, and we're gonna start again in September. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-06-16-268	Thank you too, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Congressman Sándor Berki, Group of Dialogues. Here you go.
u2023-06-16-269	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, I hope you'll forgive me for not breaking up my comment, because we've been talking for a little over eight hours now about this amendment of the law, the career model. I sit here every day getting answers and comments from you that I can't do, the grievances of the past are being dealt with, and I'm being asked to do things when I'm just working as a factory worker at this time of night, because it's customary for me, I hope, too, because we're gonna be here for a long time. So it's okay, because that's what work is like, day and night. [[0.20]] I have a kind of appreciation for you, because we are asking you to do something that you are responsible for, and that is, at the moment, the destruction of education. So I'm happy to be in this room with so many highly educated people, and we can talk about how you say you're improving education, and I feel like that's what I'd like to say, how to destroy the opportunity for ordinary people, the poor, to continue studying. I don't know how this came to you, I'd like to ask. I didn't get a chance to go to educational institutions like you, I couldn't learn that much. What are your grievances about being so angry at education, or what information might they have been able to hide from the next generation? So once again, in the speeches, there is a rise in wages and much more, that is not the most important thing for me. The most important thing for me is that education is in trouble in the countryside right now, and you are not helping, but making things worse. You know, there are schools where the education is going to survive, because there's a math teacher, and if he, like, turns in his resignation, then, oops, a school is closed, it's that simple. Somehow they don't talk about it here in the Chamber today, how simple things depend on being closed in a district, and how many hundreds of thousands of children will remain in the vicinity of their home without education, and then how will parents solve it because there is no public transport in the countryside to get the child to school. I don't know, I'm sure you guys know the answer to what's going to happen in this situation. Today it is becoming increasingly difficult to obtain quality education. Of course, when you have money, it's very easy, like everything else, you can buy it. Maybe that's how you think. We've talked more about who you represent and who we represent or who I represent. I represent people who need public education, because if that doesn't happen, he's gonna be in a lot of trouble, because he's not gonna be able to pay for all kinds of expenses in a school, because even that's hard to get the kid to come here. Of course, as we have discussed today, I would like us to live in the same country, because you live in another country, and I live in another. I live in the country where it is necessary to have public education, because the situation is very difficult, and it is still very difficult, and there is very little chance of breaking out, of making progress. If this law, which you have proposed, is being implemented, then I do not know what opportunity we have left in the countryside. Of course, you can say, as I've been listening to here, that nothing changes, that they make it better, that they discipline teachers, because there was also talk of a disciplinary hearing and all that. Of course, these are important things, but there are more important things. Let's be clear about how much I love you, and I can be asked how much I make. I never had to be ashamed or hide it, because as a factory worker or a congressman, my salary was always public, I have no business, I have nothing, and it's safe to see it. So I'm worth as much as I have, and I know that, and I've been told that several times, and I remember it, but that's enough for me. So what I would like to say is, if you really came here with the figures, that 200,000 plus 1 million is 300 thousand forints, but the work has already had two kinds of feedback: one is appreciation and the other is pay. You're not sitting here for free, it's important to you how much you're taking home, and I think it's just as important to them how much you're taking home. It's that simple. I think math is the same for you, for me, although I may be doing it at a lower and simpler level, because I pay what I have to do at the store, I have to go, I'm not ready to go shopping, for example, and maybe you don't go to the store. These are very simple facts and very simple things I don't hear them talking about, but I think they're very, very important. Once again, going back to the countryside, how will we be with kindergartens, how will we be with crèches? I miss high school. For example, there is no higher education school in Nógrád county, so those who want to continue studying can travel to Budapest or the surrounding counties. So I don't see the educational progress you're talking about. We have been lobbying for a very long time to have a higher education institution, and we have not yet managed to bring it together. In North-East Hungary, I see closure rather than improvements. What I see is that the fewer teachers, I don't see more and more of them coming. What I don't see is that teachers have more and more time to deal with children, to sit down with them, to talk about them, who is a little weaker, at most tutored; that's not what I see. I see that there's no teacher, there's no kindergarten teacher, there's nothing. And after that, what else do you think will happen in the country? Marade is anyone, or what's he really gonna do now? And, you know, I'm concerned about that, because I've taken the idea that education can be a step in breaking out. But how are we gonna break out now? Without education, without school, without a teacher, I don't know what opportunities are waiting for us. We have already discussed that we have failed to get the work-based society in North-East Hungary, and now even our education is going to be in trouble, well, these are difficult issues, especially for me. This debate is interesting, although I do not see the debate. What I see is that a decision has been made here, and you have decided to do so, and I pay my respects to you, so that you can simply ignore the interests of the people, so simply that you can overlook the fact that you are protesting, that you are talking about it, that we are arguing about it here in Parliament. I hope that if I spend three or four cycles here in Parliament, I'll be as professional as you are. So it's hard for me to be approached, even if it's none of my business, even sometimes I take it personally. But again, I'm glad I got to go to school, maybe I didn't learn what you learned. This is a very important issue, please take this into account, and really think about what is happening in parts of the country where education is already in trouble. I can see that you get embarrassed when you talk about money. There's a lot of support going out, that's very good, really, for wine presentation. We drink a lot of wine in North-East Hungary, I can tell you that we are very familiar with quality wines, although I have no idea which is a good wine, I tell you honestly. [[Dr. László György Lukács: What I like.]] Rizling? That's very good wine. [[Dr. László György Lukács: What I like. Defiance.]] What do you like? ! I don't like any of them, but it's really good. Really, I'm glad to get training from this, but I'd like the child to be trained from what will be useful for his future. When talking about teachers' career models, they should also talk about how teachers will be the ones who are our children, and their model will be on children. If the teacher feels safe and relaxed, he will treat the child that way, but if the teacher feels insecure and oppressed, he will treat the child that way. And if you create such an unstable atmosphere and such a disciplined, over-disciplined atmosphere, I don't know what the consequences will be. You may not think this through, and you're not interested in profit orientation. It really seems that you want to lead everything out, put everything on economic ground, but please, no more education. At least let's keep this. It is a great achievement of Hungarian society that we have such an educational system, in which, even if it fails a little, but at least it has the potential. But after that, I don't know how it's going to be possible, and that's the most important thing for me. [[0.30]] The other thing is, they're starting here, we've had health services tightening up, law enforcement, now the teachers are coming. I don't know who's gonna be next, but given your system, what I see is that they're really systematically, beautifully controlling the systems. I'm glad you have such discipline in your own benches. You will tell me for certain how this is going to happen, how everything is subject to a single role, but there are times when it must not be subject to it, it must be released, and it must not be governed, but it must be helped to make education work, because it is also a task of education to help students learn in it; it is that simple. It is not to strive for who, as, how to discipline. Really, honestly, with underpaid people, you know very well, but you may have forgotten, or you may not remember, or you were born into lucky families, and you've never had such a problem, but just, yet, once, try not to touch your salary just as much as a worker, a teacher is making, just touch it, and then see how you feel after a month that you're gonna be able to live. If you tell me to try the same thing, I can do it, because I've been doing 20 of those for 40 years, so I was a kid, dependent on my parents, but I've lived on it, I know what it's like to live on it, and I know how frustrated it is to get up, walk in, make change, and I can't even get into the bills. So I try to think a little financially, and approach it from this point of view, because it is very important that the state of the Hungarian people in this country is in. I can tell you that it's not a good time right now, but we can work on it to make you feel better, to work better here, and to keep the schools up. In addition, you say that you want a higher number of children in Hungary. I just don't know if all the kids you're expecting are gonna teach them. I don't know, but I'm sure you know the answer to that, too, because we're very good with teachers. Um, I don't know what else to mention here, because there's a lot to talk about. I think that in the first round, it will be enough to avoid a bit of professionalism and try to talk about it. One more thought, so to the end of my speech. This case is important to me in everything, because these cases are exemplary, and I don't like to show them to people or situations or to teachers. I've learned in this short time that I've spent here or in real life that everything always starts with someone or someone, and then nicely, as the practice goes into it, it gets worse and worse and more and more into other parts. I'm sure if you pass this bill and vote it, it won't end. But I would also ask you to think that you are in a very lucky position right now, but you will always be in such a lucky position. And will your children always be in such a lucky position that they will be provided with everything, so to speak, the golden spoon, as we say in the countryside? 'Cause if it doesn't, it's gonna be a problem. And for you, for us, it is also our duty and our duty to provide everyone with the opportunity to receive quality education. So that's all I wanted to start today, and I'm sure we'll continue this discussion later, and I hope I'll get an answer, because I've always said it today, and I'm very happy to follow your speeches, because you have the same respect, and I'm just hoping that I can get some of it back. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the opposition benches.]]
u2023-06-16-270	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Ms Agnes Kunhalmi, MSZP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2023-06-16-271	Yeah. Thank you very much, Mr. President. I believe that my fellow Member, Mr Berki, said very late, at half past, very simple, great truths, fundamental truths that we democrats have... if that word tells you anything else, because I believe that a democratic school can only be done in democracy. In an authorial power state that you have built and are constantly building, unfortunately, there is no way to build a school in which you can do something. I kind of get the feeling we're in two mills. We imagine a completely different world in which you have a place, everyone has a place. You are building a world in which we Democrats have no place. You're not motivated by the aspects that motivate us, but perhaps I would like to return to a great truth. A child born in a poor line can become a dentist. A kid born in a dumpster can be a lawyer. There is no way that today in Hungary the right and left do not agree, and we do not agree. [[Dr. Zoltán Maruzsa Viktor: We agree.]] You agree, but you still serve a system that basically took away the status of civil servant, which basically centralised, nationalised and takes power and political aspects through. The KRÉTA system, which will help children learn, said just now has government propaganda to buy government bonds so that they can finance the country, which is why they had to. We use different aspects. You're serving a system that I refuse, and I'm facing a straight spine, and I'm simply trying to argue. If I mention the status law, I'll enter your paradigm, while there are two paradigms that stand against each other. That is why I said that this is not a professional issue, but a political and power issue. I'll continue. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the opposition benches.]]
u2023-06-16-272	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Bernadett Bakos, the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2023-06-16-273	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. You people bring this up as a criticism, but I think that when we talk about a teaching career, we cannot avoid talking about the problems of education in general and putting it in a bigger picture. Today, an educator earns half as much as a loader, and if I understand correctly, their best offer right now is that maybe, if the numbers turn up, he can earn as much as a loader. But it is worth looking at why teachers make so much money, because this is not because it is an extremely poor country, there is not enough tax revenue in the budget. It is simply because you cannot afford to pay teachers because you finance large companies with this money, and the government is spending public funds on a forced industrialisation, and this money is lacking in all public services, so it is also lacking in education, and so it is lacking in the wage increase of teachers. The reason we can't afford quality education is because they're throwing money away, and it's putting us in a trap. Technically, we depend on the convenience of the large companies that are supported, and in essence, you always defend state aid, so that otherwise they pack, leave, and what happens to the workers who work there, because they cannot find employment in the labour market. That's the critical vulnerability we're always talking about. On the other hand, most of these multinationals absorb cheap, untrained workers, and that's exactly what you're trying to serve. You believe that our competitive advantage is that the workers are extremely untrained, if they are vulnerable, if they can be exploited cheaply, and it is obvious that this does not require quality education, well-paid teachers, but if they pour the money into the pockets of the multinationals without counting, and then you can point out to Brussels why they do not send the teachers' wages. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-06-16-274	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Timea Szabó, Dialogue Group. Here you go.
u2023-06-16-275	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary Maruzsa, First of all, we thank you for having said something to the debate at least once, but there has been an important question, which, if I remember correctly, has not been addressed, and I think this is a really important professional issue, and this is a question of kindergarten psychologists and school psychologists. So far, five hundred children have received a school psychologist, now according to the bill, and according to the plans, and as many have applied for this, a thousand children will receive a piece of school psychologist. That means you get about 20 minutes a month for one child a month! So if someone has a problem, let's say in January they can deal with it for 20 minutes, then in February. So you can feel that, can't you, that's not okay? I'd like to ask you why. After a Covid, Professor Hiller said here that after a Covid, there are very big problems. In a family, there could be divorces, there could be anything else, stress, there could be a school-buzzing when they're hitting each other, and they're pissing each other off. We specifically saw a third. District school, when a schoolgirl committed suicide because of it. Why is this incredibly important area so grossly neglected? [[0.40]] So we don't see any professional reasons behind this. When a school psychologist earns HUF 200,000 net, which means that he can't buy his children any fruit at the end of the month, that they can't go on vacation, that they can't buy clothes, then what is the amount that the government thinks is saving? I repeat once again: if there is 3 billion forints for community wine marketing, then there must also be an extremely important area. Thank you.
u2023-06-16-276	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Varga, DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-06-16-277	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, How did Congresswoman Kunhalmi put it? He said that in the world of Fidesz, in the world of Fidesz, there is no room for Democrats. Now, you obviously thought that politically, but I think it's a lot worse than that. The problem is that in your world, there is no place for anyone who thinks differently, not for people who really don't politicalize, who simply want to live, because we see that teachers, students, factory workers, casting workers, most of the agricultural workers would actually not be political, but would try to make a living in your world, but can't, can't; because you suck the air away from them because there is no room for them. Moreover, the biggest problem is that they are very soon to be grilled by the people on the left, although that is not the case. I don't know, you've been to faculty bodies lately, one that isn't a priority, a well-known, prepared field for you, but one of these days you're just gonna pop into a faculty. I'm from Debrecen, and I know more than one of these faculty, and I've been there. Years ago, those faculty declared themselves deeply right-wing, even admitting that they thought they were fidesz. If we go to such a faculty now, it's stunned silence, everyone's quiet. They don't say a word, but they don't think they're being helped by the government anymore, or they need to help the government. You're wrong when you think that what's going on out here is actually the whole vertice of this world; it's much deeper than that. You know, as Attila József said, the surface is blabbering, listening to the deep. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] And deep down, these teachers feel they've been let down, and that's not good news for you. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2023-06-16-278	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Zoltán Maruzsa. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2023-06-16-279	Thank you very much. I'm looking for Zsolt Molnár with my eyes, but I don't see what I'm really sorry about, because he encouraged me to withdraw the material with such enormous persuasions that you're really starting to waver. [[Intercoms from the opposition, including: Ágnes Kunhalmi: I'll call you back! Lot. Erzsébet Németh: I'll suggest it, Mr. Secretary of State.]] And I was hoping that at least with his eyes it would provide some inspiration. I'd like to assure him that I really love my history profession, so he's gonna meet me in this field. I would like to reassure Congressman Dawn that we are familiar with the Helsinki Committee. They always have a political line, and I wouldn't worry about it, and there's always a legal line. Of course, as I have indicated, we have already learned about this in the March draft, my colleagues have processed it, we have looked at it, we consider all legal arguments, because we also want to create legislation that clearly complies with the Fundamental Law and legal coherence in all respects. What is justified will, of course, be amended. I would say to Mr Berki that what he said about the education system in the countryside is not fair because I think that this government is doing a great deal to sustain small rural institutions, also where the number of students makes it more and more doubtful and difficult, and we keep them up until the last moment. There is always, of course, where, unfortunately, the number of people is already falling, or parents may take them to a larger or better school, that at that time we are forced to use the means of restructuring at the institution, but until that is the case, otherwise I think that this government maintains a lot of small rural institutions that could not otherwise have been maintained in a local government-reserved world for a long time. Congresswoman Kunhalm: in the area of social inclusion, we are not far from thinking. The government forced the compulsory kindergarten because all the figures showed that later school success was very much related to the existence of kindergarten schooling, and although in Hungary kindergartening had and has a long tradition and tradition, it was not always the case for the most socially deprived groups, or for an inadequate period of time. That is why we have been committed to compulsory preschooling since 2015. In addition to primary schools, where the social catch-up function justifies this, we operate almost 200 schools there, precisely so that next to the school there is another point that supports those young people in the locality, helping them to achieve educational and educational success. We operate in each county with territorial coverage in the Arany János programme with colleges that can highlight the most talented young people from these locations and provide them with a special scholarship for secondary education that can deliver them to higher education, but the same function, I think, is supported to a large extent by the vocational training scholarship introduced in vocational training, and the attractiveness of those programmes has also increased. This is complemented by a college and college system of higher education, which, in my view, can deliver these talents to the result of a successful and even higher education degree. Szabó Timea and others asked about this 500 or 1,000 school psychologists. I also Googled it so that the bill would say anything about it, but I can't find a point like that. I presume because I have seen such articles appear before that the bill does not contain any such changes in the number of persons financed. So please review the preparatory personnel that you have received from this bill, because we had no intention of changing the number of people financed. According to my search engine, this word is in four places, and there is no change in the number of people financed anywhere. By the way, the system works in this way by financing our own school psychologist in the major institutions. In this way, it is very often overlooked in the comments that how many children he attends, so remember that in addition, the professional service is present in the district system, the traveling services are present, as I think it is easy for everyone to see that the employment of their own, self-employed, locally working psychologists in small institutions is not always justified. They are moved, applied, and, of course, where they do not have their own, by travelling services, we try to provide everyone with the school psychological care they need. I agree with the importance of this, and not only to reduce it, but to develop it, the government has further plans. Thank you very much.
u2023-06-16-280	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members. I give you the floor, Gy. Mrs Erzsébet Németh, DK Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2023-06-16-281	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I think, and in the opinion of the Democratic Coalition, this status law, or, as we prefer to call it, the law of vengeance has only one role to play in your version or in your line of ideas, namely to place the point on i, the ten-some-year activity that Hungarian education may not want to say, but it will increasingly be the final reversal of my conviction in an era that many in Hungary thought was finally behind us. [[Sic!]] I have had the pleasure of following through on what is happening in Hungarian public education in some form since 1994. I started my political career at the Metropolitan Assembly, and, you know, Mr. State Secretary, then the City Council had more than 235 secondary schools, had several high schools, and, by the way, the secondary part of public education, as far as high schools were concerned, was maintained, operated and elected by district governments. So, quite simply, public education was organised on a completely different basis. In 2013, you decided to nationalise the task of public education, to take these tasks away from the municipal authorities, and to keep them running. After that, in 2017, it was thought that if the public education part of public education was under your authority, how good it would be if the operation were also performed by a central organisation, this would also be nationalised, and you took over operation from 2017. [[0.50]] Here I would like to draw attention to one thing: a number of local governments, including the City Council, have pioneered in that area, that by introducing a so-called zero-class in high school, they have provided children with particularly good foundations for teaching much more lessons, much more time, more teachers and divided groups to learn one or two foreign languages in this zero-class class, and this meant that the language teaching in high schools had finally begun in some direction that this country needed immensely. In 2017, you wanted to take over the operation, and you took over it by then, but in the summer of 2016, even Fidesz MEPs and Fidesz mayors, quote from an article, drilled to fully nationalise these schools. Some citations follow from an article at the time:. All the local government associations, but even the lobby of Fidesz district mayors in Budapest were not enough to talk to them about school rule. Well, it's been six or seven years, and today we're on the same page that you've actually had no meaningful consultation with anyone about this Vengeance Act. Then, not only could these Fidesz mayors not cancel the draft, but they even asked to discuss small things, such as deciding to give someone the gym for free. Now, this was arranged by the law of the time that the municipal authorities could no longer make such decisions, had nothing to do with that settlement, its elected representatives, what was happening in their school. Until the adoption of the law, anything can happen, but this has already happened in 2012; this is how Károly Szita, the Fidesz mayor of Kaposvár, said to contact the Internet portal about nationalization of schools, which many mayors have tried to negotiate with the government in recent weeks. Does this look familiar to you, Mr. Secretary? At the end of April, János Lázár, who was the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, announced that the state would take over the operation of schools from the municipalities, the districts, by means of a legislative amendment, and later it turned out that he would have them pay for it. Now, that is so well done, Mr. Secretary of State, that today we should stay with the municipalities and then again at the Budapest City Council at this address, that the schools must pay a contribution after what the state has taken from them, the state will take away multiples of the money in which the maintenance and operation of these schools will take place. In 2013, KLIK became the maintainer of all municipal schools, but there were 500 municipalities that wanted to run the school themselves. These buildings remained owned by the municipalities, i.e. the mayors could decide how the buildings were used outside the teaching period. Cleaners, janitors and maintenance staff were also municipal employees, but that time ended in 2017, and the state, if the mayors of that time wanted it, took over the operation tasks as well. It is understandable, therefore, that he protested against this draft and asked for consultations with several important local government associations, including the Budapest Municipal Association of Fidesz Mayors and the National Federation of Fidesz Presidential Municipal Local Governments, as the Fidesz leaders felt that the local government property was becoming quite spectacular next year. Now, if I remember correctly, for the past year and a half, when there were really large wave of protests about public education, I somehow cannot hear the Fidesz mayors protesting so much about it, even though Zoltán Pokorni is a mountain mayor, who, remember, was also the Vice President of Fidesz and Minister of Education, at a press conference on a local school renewal program, said, "We will see that when Parliament decides, we will hand over the school to the state maintainer as such, that they think something like this should be done, or that these will be documents of plans and intentions in which the municipalities will have a role. The words of Pokorni indicate that the Ministry did not agree with the leaders of the municipalities on details of nationalisation. And I could continue here with the sentences of Károly Sita, mayor of Fidesz Kaposvár, but I think that what I have brought here to this House is clearly clear that you did not care that, for example, mayors and city leaders believe that nationalization of schools is not a good way for you, just as you do not now care about what will happen to teachers after the adoption of this vengeance law. At a time when you started nationalization, we heard the same great promises that we now hear for teachers, the enormous wage increase that will happen, when the Union gives us the resources, I would like to discuss this at the end, if I have time, if not, then I will continue in the next round, but the promise they made in the next round, too, Mr Secretary of State, which justified nationalisation, that schools would be brought to an equal level in the field of quality education. Obviously, they thought and always talked about raising schools with less infrastructure, less professional work, to the level of good quality education schools, but in recent years it has been found that this has not happened: good schools and schools where children have received very good knowledge and useful knowledge, unfortunately, you have sunk them down and destroyed them to a lower level. I think, and I would like to move on to the details of the specific law, but I would like to say one more item before him, that when you speak about education, schools, teachers, parents, students, you are quite simply discredited by the way you finance education. I would like to say two figures: in 2010, the government spent 5.8 percent of public finances on education as a percentage of GDP, i.e. as a percentage of GDP, 4 percent in the 2024 budget. You can do magic here, and I think it was Secretary of State Tallai, who taught us how much more the state is now spending nominally on this, I mean, education or any other human area, but I do not think that is the case. It is impossible to compare 2010 and 2024, and there are methods to compare it with, for example, the share expressed as a percentage of GDP, which, I repeat, has decreased from 5.8 percent to 4 percent. If you really thought seriously that the conclusion of nationalization and now of this status law on i would result in a better and more qualitative education, if not at other times, it would have been based on annual surveys, PISA surveys and other indicators to begin to suspect that this is not a good way to go. No, you are doing as my fellow Members have said here, that you will extend that small train to Bicsk, nota bene, Riderberény, once the Prime Minister has decided. However, perhaps a minister who has a wide, populous family, obviously has some idea or knowledge of what is going on in today's schools, although it has also been said here today by my fellow Members that his children obviously did not go to primary school on the side of the village, but that they may have been involved in other, even foreign studies. So, it wouldn't hurt to think and suspect that this path you're on isn't good. And let's be specific. What is most resentful of teachers is the termination of public employment. I think that if a whole profession says that it does not want this relationship to end, then quite simply this profession should have been listened to, rather than being taught a whole new legal status, which is not actually matured, or these people are uncertain and afraid that they will lose many rights to their civil servant status if they are under this new legal status. [[1.00]] It has also been said today, and it has been said several times that the academic year will be extended in various justified cases until 15 July. Well, my dear Secretary of State and my dear fellow Members of the Fidesz, you obviously didn't teach me a second, say, from mid-May, from the end of a residential building built from a panel in a flattop school building. You can't teach there when it's 28 to 30 degrees outside, and not because it's really hard to survive for a day or two, but rather, those buildings just get so hot that they're simply physically unfit to say, say, until 15 July, if you think so, or the principal, the district manager, thinks you can teach in these buildings. They're cutting down the rights of the faculty specifically, as far as the work plan is concerned, as far as the sms are concerned. This is to put teachers under a guardianship that should not really be done to people who, by the way, are expected to be brought up with children who are mature for democracy, who are able to find their way through it, and who gain even a confident knowledge. By the end, Mr. Secretary, allow me, I'm not sure I can finish it, but I'm trying, aren't I, this 500 children/school psychologist was quite a cardinal question. Well, I'll help you: the reason you can't find the 500 and this number in it, Mr. Secretary, is because the bill simply doesn't mention it. They pulled out the 500 with ease, and now no one has the safety of having at least one school psychologist per 500 children and having to be employed in some form. I think that in many areas of your life, you have ruined the trust that the citizen may have had in the state until 2010, and I have to include the first Orbán government between 98 and 2002, this kind of trust. But your series of measures, which were about to break long-term contracts, they took away the private pension fund, they didn't keep the promises they made to this society, they simply don't trust you, and they won't believe that, for example, they will get the wage increase they need or that they can make a normal living from. And then, by the end of the day, Mr. Secretary, you said that the school of the future will be different from what we're running now. I completely agree with this one sentence, Mr. Secretary, but not with the justification, only with this sentence, because I think that the school of the future will be run by Klára Dobrev's shadow government, obviously it will be a coalition government, and believe me that even though you are shaking your head now, believe me that it is a guarantee that what you have heard here from opposition representatives that it will be a completely different school, that it will be child-centred, that it will be educator-centred, that it will negotiate with parents, students, teachers and everyone, because it is simply in Hungary's interest. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2023-06-16-282	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Dávid Bedő, Momentum Group. Here you go.
u2023-06-16-283	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We have been debating a lot of things here tonight, and I think that we will be debating a lot of things here tonight, but I would like to draw attention to a very important aspect, I would like to focus on one thing in this speech, and perhaps this is something in which we can even agree, and then, of course, I will point out that we are not really so much, but let us start at the beginning. It's a pay raise for teachers. That's what we've been talking about, isn't it? My colleague Berki opened this question very, very well and explained why it is so important, but he can't really work well, he doesn't feel appreciated by an educator if he has to work for so little money. But if you agree with this question, and the teachers need to raise their wages, and they deserve to work for a reasonable, normal salary, then why don't they? That's the big question. They would have had the opportunity to do so again this year, in the budget of 23, they would also have had the opportunity to do so in the budget of 22. They've had the opportunity for a long time, after all, they've been ruling for 13 years with a two-thirds mandate. So, it's not a completely clear line, it's not completely understandable to me why they simply don't do this, why they have to put this pay increase in the status law, in the Vengeance Act, which, by the way, is the lowest lane, I would add, not by much more than a few thousand forints more than the current salary of teachers. We have seen quite simply in the last year, as we look at the 2023 budget, that this budget has been revised more than 90 times, it has been redesigned, there have been a lot of government regulations in relation to the budget, which was dropped out at midnight, and it came into force the next day, so they could have done it quite simply at any time to give teachers a substantial wage increase, and it would not have cost so much. This is a few hundred billionaires, according to my experts, would have been about 400-500 billion in the budget if we had raised the wages of teachers by 50 percent overnight, and yet they have been communicating for weeks, months, that teachers are not getting a raise right away because they are waiting for EU funds. It doesn't make any sense. A sovereign state, and you usually say how sovereign we are, how independent we are, and how much we are constantly hurting the Union, or hurting you, and how much we want to be independent of them, yet we are waiting for European Union funds to enable Hungarian teachers and teachers to raise their wages. This is completely incomprehensible! The very sad thing is, moreover, that at some point, when we get to the vote, I sincerely hope that we will not get to the vote, and we will not vote on this law, and they will withdraw it, didn't you, Mr State Secretary, this evening, wavering here a little bit, in case we can continue to waver the Secretary of State during the debate, and at the end we will be able to withdraw it, but if we do get to the vote, and the entire opposition, the entire democratic opposition, will certainly vote off this bill, then you will attack us, and I predict that we have said no to raise the wages of teachers. But let me add that again, in this status law, wage increases are conditional, because many times their politicians, members of the government, have told us that we are waiting for the money from the European Union to arrive, and that we cannot manage it from our own budget, unfortunately, this does not fit into this budget of 30 000 billion. The 1200 billion of the Defence Fund is perfectly fine, and the Renewal Fund is nearly 1000 billion, all of which are in place, teachers unfortunately cannot afford to raise wages, because there is no way to raise wages for teachers. Now, last year, 2022, when this new government stood up, there was already a problem with paying EU funds to Hungary. There is, on the one hand, this small corruption problem, that EU funds have migrated here and there in the last 13 years, that has become private wealth, that we know how it goes, that there is this rule of law issue, which is also a little problematic in this country, so to speak, and for these reasons we have not received EU funds for almost a year and a half. Of course, for the sake of order, I would like to say that we are not getting this money because of our war position and not because of LGBTQ and for other reasons, but because we are not getting this money because of serious problems with the rule of law in Hungary and because you have been using these EU funds for 13 years. But in 2022, when the new government stood up, they appointed a minister for the task of bringing back Tibor Navracsics only to bring home European Union funds, he will take care of it, he will go to Brussels, he will go, and Judi Varga will go, everyone will go, and everyone will work to bring these money home. They've been communicating for a year and a half that the agreement is already in the corner, that EU money can come anytime, and then everything will be fine. I prepared a little quote for you, going all the way back in the spring of 2022 about what Tibor Navracsics was communicating about EU funds, about when they would arrive. [[1.10]] If you'll excuse me, I'm going to read this. The tree begins with the promise collection starting on 17 May 2022, a set of promises. Tibor Navracsics says he wants to know what the reason for the delay in Brussels is that he would be pleased if we could get the resources as soon as possible. Just one day later, on 18 May: EU funds are virtually unreliable, dependent on two agreements and promised by the end of 2022. June 2nd, we're still in 2022. They're doing everything they can for the crown virus recovery fund, promising to hold it back by the end of the year because of corruption. For the record, these aren't literal quotes, these are summaries of what you're saying. So, I don't always say what's coming out of his mouth, that's the whole point of his saying. Then let's keep looking. 15 June 2022 Tibor Navracsics is travelling to Brussels to bring home EU funds. It didn't go that well. 28 June 2022 EU funds may arrive, and the Hungarian government will conclude the partnership agreement with the European Union in the second half of 2022. It didn't work. 6 July 2022 We'll have an agreement on recovery money in the fall. 11 July 2022 The Minister may already be more careful to say that EU funds will arrive in Hungary by the end of the year. Less than a week later, on 19 July, he said that they could sign the agreement with the European Union in the second half of the year. Here comes a personal favorite. 29 July 2022 The probability of the agreement has been estimated at 98,8 percent, and the Commission has to respond to the rule of law concerns by 22 August. On 9 August, the Minister gave an interview to the Guardian, saying that he was optimistic that the agreement could be reached by the end of the year. We'll continue on the next page. August 23rd, still 2022. In the procedure concerning the rule of law mechanism, the agreement may be reached around the beginning of September, and in the others it referred to the autumn of 2022. Five days later, on 27 August, anti-EU statements do not undermine Hungary's position in the negotiations. September 15th, we're gonna jump a little bit. In June at the ministerial hearing, I said that I wanted these agreements to be reached by the end of the year. I think we're doing just fine on time. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, September 27th, again a very well-quoted sentence: There is no plan B, the agreement is a plan A. October 4th. Navracsics went to Strasbourg to bring EU money home. He was optimistic as early as September 18th. October 6th. It's just another personal favorite. Here he promised the EU funds under the Christmas tree, and in November, December, it is realistic that they will arrive in our country. November 11th. There's every chance that the agreements will be made by the end of the year. November 24th. EU funding can now be published here in April of March 2023. Here, the Minister has given up his promise that they will arrive by the end of the year and fall, and now we have pushed one all the way to spring. Then on 29 November: in December we can adopt the recovery plans, so the resources will come next year. November 30th. The agreements with Brussels have already been concluded this year, so the funds can come next year. Oh, and here he also added that it is up to the European Commission to raise the wages of teachers. This is particularly interesting, given what I said in the first five minutes of the speeches. December 22nd. Everything is signed in Brussels, with EU money coming up. They haven't come since. February 16. It's 2023. Apart from agriculture, the money is not yet coming from the seven-year budget. We'll send bills to Brussels from the middle of the year, and there will be money. February 21st. EU funds can arrive by summer. 9 March 2023 Will EU money arrive? As a rhetorical question, the Minister asks. Let's just say yes. April 5th. By summer, all Brussels debates can be resolved. May 8th. He trusts me at the end of the summer. May 16th. The agreement with Brussels is very close. Here comes a little turn, May 25, 2023. Navracsich isn't very optimistic. [[Continue in 74/3.]] 2022-2026. parliamentary term Budapest, 16 June 2023 Friday 74/3. Number Parliamentary Diary And here's my absolute favourite, which I don't quote from Navracsich, but from the Minister for Economic Development of Martin the Great. Hungary must learn to live without EU funds, because it may not be coming this year. So, we see that this was a total of 29 quotes from 28 Navracsichs, and one from Martin the Great, who had actually dropped it. Let us not talk about the fact that, in the same interview, you practically took on foreign invested capital with EU funds and said that it was as good as EU money. That may be the subject of a separate debate, but we can see from this set of promises, from the past year and a half, that the agreement with the European Union is not so close, it does not seem that those thousands of billions would arrive. And of course, István Hollik will surely stand up in the next two minutes and say that this is because Hungary is not receiving EU funds because of the opposition, which is not true, of course, because we are not getting it because there are serious problems with the rule of law, and we are not getting it because they have been using EU funds for 13 years. But back to what I originally said, it is clear that EU funds are not really to be expected. Then I'll ask you why you're still tied to this teacher's salary increase. Why can't they really pay the wages of teachers from their own Hungarian budget, from Hungary's budget? Why do you have to put this in the status code? Why should a teacher's salary increase be bound to such a law? This country could manage a teacher's wage increase, especially now that the bond market is going so well, which is already announced in the CRETA. Every new marketing tool needs to be found, and I agree with that to the full extent, it is very creative, it may not be the best use of the KRÉTA system, but it doesn't matter. So you can see that the European Union funds are waiting for nothing, they won't arrive, they won't arrive because of you, and it seems a little bit as if they were deliberately tied to EU funds because they know that it won't arrive, so they don't have to honour that promise. I suggest you touch the budget again, you will touch it anyway, you will touch it anyway, you will amend it 90 times again, you will increase the wages of teachers, you will not wait for EU funds, and if I may ask you again, I can propose something, and you will withdraw the status law, and we will not vote on it this year, nor next year. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2023-06-16-284	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Ms Agnes Kunhalmi, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2023-06-16-285	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I agree with my fellow Member who spoke before me, let us not vote on it now, nor next year, and let us wave the Secretary of State a little more, let us not rock it, let us wave it. Let's wave him to keep himself stable in order to get this law passed. Well, I'd like to talk a little bit about what you're concerned about, Secretary of State, and you're about to understand what the status law has to do with it. He mentioned early childhood development. He didn't use that word, but how much power there is in preschooling, I think so, and the previous socialist governments thought so too, for early childhood development, for the protection network, for kindergartening. I am pleased that progress has been made in kindergarten. I think it's a good thing to keep an option. Obviously, the middle class always tries to separate a little bit, or often tries to get away from its lower class associates, but overall, there is a beneficial effect of this compulsory kindergarten, because I can see through my little godson that very many children who see the light in different social groups and are born into different families in a better way. As long as the child of a dentist is accompanied by the child of the two-handed worker and, where appropriate, the small gypsy girls at the outskirts of the city, gypsy boys, I think... and it is not the kindergarten because he sees it very well, and there is agreement on this, I am glad that there is always a common foundation, because the Hungarian kindergarten teacher training and the methodology and the development they are doing are always well-known. [[1.20]] So they deserve it, too, by the way, I guess we both think so, the wage increase. And it's not so bad there, though, I'll tell you, I used to read about it in fresh literature, I don't know, maybe two or three years ago I took a longer study into my hands. Obviously, there are people who say that there is something to be developed professionally in this area, too, there is a lack of trying out new methods, as a three- to four-year-old child, if his parents allow them to take digital tools into their hands in addition to classical story-reading, if we are talking about ruffled young people with mobile phones, then in any case there is also the professional methodology and here the President of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, who said that subject methods should also be updated and made a little better. As I've read it, but I'm telling you, I haven't read a recent study in the last few months, so I don't know exactly where kindergarten pedagogical science is, but getting all my knowledge together in my head, that's still very good. It's not even there, it's after the kids get into school. Wuhh, the Hungarian society is breaking apart like a draft. In middle school, underage teachers are kindergarten teachers in almost the first grade, second grade. Anyone with a baby knows how important the first grade teacher's personality is, his method, his style, everything. But he's already breaking up from high school. And my problem with the status law is here, and I'm back in line with the status law that the status law amplifies that. So, not only would it help to reduce the social differences that governments have had before 2010, since the regime change, but also the same, even more selective, school system, the status law has already had problems with it, but it amplifies it even more. And if we agree, or if we agree, that education is essentially supposed to prepare people for the skills they will need for a lifetime... the kindergarteners of today will work in jobs that may not even exist, my fellow Members. It is important that you fulfil this function. If you can't load it, you'll only have a political power function, not a professional function. I always come back to the same place because I think the same thing, and I'm trying to get a lot of perspective. The other is the function of social catch-up. I don't see it today, and I don't see it anymore. Here too, education lost its function, much more than before 2010. It wasn't perfect there either, let's be fair, and I'm not the politician who doesn't see what was missing from the system before 2010, but many people in this country believed that they were given the authority to do it better. I did not see this coming, and overall, I understand this, especially the fact that the Prime Minister has resigned so much from this area, or is only going to crush it under himself, by applying power criteria. Today, if I look at it, the poor have the wrong school, I have to say, the lower middle class is more of a church school. And here the world-view neutrality is often said to the socialists that we are anti-church, we are not, or even, believe it or not, there was even a religious department in the MSZP, led by László Donáth for a very long time, and there are still many religious people in the Hungarian Socialist Party. The problem is not that church students get more, but I don't mind that, because they are Hungarian citizens, they are our children, but that children in public schools get less. So we should strive to upset him that the state cannot finance children in its own schools with less money. So the lower middle class is the church school, the upper middle class is the expensive private school, and it's getting more and more elite training, MCC, right? And it's rough picking, it's falling apart. It's a good thing the kindergartens keep it, and if you have any influence, please keep it, because the kids are still there. And that's where I come in, in junior high, this thing still holds itself up, so that if possible, 22-24 hours will be determined, and not even 24 if it's still included in the amendment. If you're going to hand it in, or you're going to carry it along, your own party family will accept it more than if it comes from us as an official amendment, because we should try to keep a society together as long as possible. Because when they're together at school, it's a strong, healthy society. Basically, we all think that we are socialists, myself and the opposition, that we need a qualified and healthy country and society in order to have a good labour market and to start Hungary's development, because it is only in one place. I would also like to say a few sentences about the fact that several times the Fidesz MEPs came up with 15,000... Mr. Nacsa has been at the forefront of how many thousands of teachers we have dismissed. It cannot be said that we socialists, the MSZP governments, were not maintenance. Okay, I get the normative decline, other than that, but I have to say, at that time, there were predominantly Fidesz municipalities, and especially small settlements. Orbán gave the order that the worse it gets, the better, it came out of his mouth. I'm not saying it on your personal account. You're sitting here. You can hear it. But basically, we didn't dismiss teachers. And I do not deny that there are huge differences between municipalities and municipalities. And the state was less and less able to compensate for that, that those who had high business taxes were able to finance a good school where there was no money, there was no state, and then they came out of it, or they didn't come out of it. But this wasn't the way to transform this system. It shouldn't have been over-centralized and nationalized. And let me tell you one thing here, because it's really bugging my guts, which means it's bugging my guts that it doesn't make that one argument, but now I'm gonna tell you, and then I'm gonna calm down. Basically, it made sense to keep schools in the municipalities, and perhaps it should have come up with a mixed system, but not full nationalization; and I think István Hiller raised it in the last few years, just seeing these problems, so that the state could have a maintenance role, and where they can and do know, the municipalities should take the schools, but you were on the other side of the horse. So there was in 2010 before we handed over the government or took over, so I'd put it this way, because we didn't want to give it to you, but we did it to make sure that this was done by closing parentheses. While the school was in the hands of the municipality, it struck directly at the mayor's vote... so a citizen voted for his local mayor not only to paint his fence for the school, but if the mayor promised me to make you an IT lab and a language lab, because, I don't know, the Roma woman wanted to teach her child in English, because they also realized that they wanted their child to move forward, she took it, she didn't vote for that mayor next time. So it was in the primary interest and the necessity to vote for this famous democracy, so that the school should not only be painted on the fence but also have a specific professional activity in it. And this is added, by the way, to the more relaxed pedagogical program that provides the state framework, the freedom of teaching is more relaxed... but otherwise the state must always have a framework, but we cannot say from a ministry room that Kiskunmajsa, Jászszentlászló, the II. in the district or even in the case of the XVIII. What's good for the kids in Havana, South-Pest. So here's where the bike that an ex-officer, Minister, used to talk about was pushed a little too far. It will be very difficult to change this because, after the change of regime, right- and left-wing governments have built something, but it is very easy to destroy. My experience, obviously yours, is different, but now I'm in second term, I don't know how many government programs we're writing before the elections, so that they can understand what I mean, we're always going deeper. So the correction is always getting harder and harder. And there's one more thing I want to talk about, and it's a specific question, because I didn't like to answer my last two minutes or I don't know in what two minutes you asked me how 24 hours are related to 32 hours or 48 hours in the Status Act. I wouldn't repeat it more specifically. [[1.30]] But I have one more question: in the status law, there's a limit between meth and teachers' wages. You'll take a guarantee to the lower limit. As I saw in the budget, I understand. [[Dr. Zoltán Maruzsa talking to Viktor and Bence Rétvári:]] I know it's always good to meet you, but I'd like to ask you specifically if you're right, there's a 20% wage increase in the provision, if I understand correctly. This is such a flamboyant calculation, so please complement me or help me, it's about 230-240 billion, and this is the feet of the EU, the EFOP. So all I want to ask you is that this is the 20 percent, because the Secretary of State for Finance couldn't tell you this either, which means he didn't want or didn't know, or he answered with honor to everything, but it didn't, and I'm trying to ask you that this 20 percent, which is in the provision, is what you have, because I couldn't figure out from the fucking budget, how much that would go from the national budget, and how much that would come from the EU. Because if I understand the words of the Secretary of State for Finance correctly, it will be 20 percent if, by the way, the Commission, which it has adopted, is also paid. I just don't know if it's about 20% of what he said or how much of it. 'Cause I can see that, and I noticed in the budget that 10 percent of the money given in 2023 as a substitute for professional wages went undercover in the base, right? So that means they're gonna be able to give it to you right now. And what's on top of that, in the reserve, the 20 percent that's mentioned, that's the rear leg of the EFOP. How much of the 20 percent is home money and how much is EU money? If you can answer that to me, or if you can give me an answer, I thank you with great respect. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-06-16-286	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mrs Bernadett Bakos, the LMP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2023-06-16-287	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I think it is unnecessary to refer to anything else, and in the last 13 years, this government has had all the political and economic resources it needs to be able to substantially improve education. This did not happen, exactly the opposite processes have started, and significant deterioration has occurred. I would like to highlight two very important functions of education, especially public education. One is the transfer and development of knowledge and skills. Indeed, this would be the primary function that we think of schools, but unfortunately the reality shows the opposite picture; an increasing number of students, almost 30 percent of them from primary schools, come with severe skills gaps that they will no longer be able to gain competitive knowledge. And that also means that technology can't keep up, it won't be able to retrain itself if it's in that position. So basically, he can't adapt to the changing environment later. On a national average, the percentage of unskilled school leavers exceeds 10 percent, and in disadvantaged areas this figure is close to 40 percent. And here's to the other's very serious and useful function: it could open up a social mobility channel. Unfortunately, this function is not fulfilled in Hungary either, because we also see that the PISA surveys clearly show that these scissors have been very drastically opened for children with the worst and the best social background. This virtually confirms that the total centralization, which has taken place in the last 12 years, does not work, because poorly performing students are simply concentrated in one school, one geographical area, and very strongly seen even in differences between rural church and state schools. If something is to be said, then these issues should be discussed and not proposals for power technology. Thank you.
u2023-06-16-288	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Komáromi, DK Group. Here you go.
u2023-06-16-289	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In the previous two comments, I tried to prove with examples from the field of health that if an education system is wrong, if it works with errors, the output, the output will strike back, it will strike back to the country. In fact, it is about the training of nurses, and we spoke with Mr. Secretary of State in the hallway with two sentences, and he said that it was resolved, that the professional management of the vocational schools came to the medical universities. It just doesn't show. And these are recent data, that the basic register has more than 200,000 data, the qualified health worker, so he has such a professional qualification. Compared to this, only 107 thousand have a licence, half of it. This is not more than 2 percent on the basis of annual growth. So there are 243 thousand workers in the system, 106 thousand have valid operating permits, but the number of posts filled is 99 961. This means that even those with an operating licence are not in health care. And they always say that nurses who speak the language go abroad. And no, because 199 nurses have asked for her education to be naturalized. And after all, in 18, 7119 people were no longer asked to be in the operating register. So we lose professionals by not being able to train good people for them. Thank you. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-06-16-290	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Dávid Bedő, Momentum Group. Here you go.
u2023-06-16-291	Thank you very much. I'm sure you'll be listening to a lot of letters tonight from teachers, teachers who stand up against the status law. And I wanted to bring you a story from the other side. Just a week ago at the market in Szentendre, we were bartending this morning because of our new education campaign, by the way, if you weren't at the market in Szentendre, you're on the beach, and I strongly recommend it, because it's a very nice market, and a teacher came up to me and told me that because of me and Momentum, he's not getting a raise, and that's why we're traitors. [[Bence Rétvári: Reality has come to light.]] I hear you, yeah. I'm sorry you missed my earlier speech, Mr Secretary of State. [[Bence Rétvári: I'm sorry, too.]] In which I pointed out that it is absolutely up to you when you raise wages [[Bence Rétvári: I'll check it online.]] because it would be about 400 billion in our budget, yet they are waiting for EU funds for some magical reason. It's really incredibly sad that your propaganda and your continuing lies on this subject have gone through so much with people that a teacher comes up to me like this and throws these things at my head, which is obviously not true. Unfortunately, I didn't have time to explain the real situation to him because he ran away, and he wasn't open to talking. And it would be nice if you were at least open to a real debate. And, of course, they will sit through this debate, but then it will change their position very little, and they will also want to force it through Parliament so much because they have a two-thirds, but they will have to force it through the pedagogical society. So, it's really disappointing. I wanted to close with this. Thank you.
u2023-06-16-292	Thank you. Dear Parliament, For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to independent MP Ferenc Varga. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-06-16-293	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Before me, several people have mentioned the relationship between education and catching up or education and poorer layers, which I would like to comment on in these two minutes. Obviously, education is one of the most important basic elements of catching up, or the most important pillar of education, and unfortunately, with what Fidesz has done over the past 13 years, not only with education, but also with all the large areas in the country, in my opinion, it will be the poor people who will be the worst in the first place again, because who is not poor will obviously be able to take his child to private school or private hospital, as is usually the case. But what the Fidesz is doing is endangering the entire learning society, but the poor will feel the best about it. [[1.40]] As far as teacher wages are concerned, this would obviously be the number one motivation factor for a teacher to educate poor or even disadvantaged children. And in terms of wages, we are not doing very well, because that is why the protests are happening and that is why the debate is going on. You've been convicted of segregation, for example, many times. The last case was in Nyíregyháza a few months ago, where you had to pay compensation, by the way. I think that education would be one of the major areas where there would be a lot of work for the government, whether in en bloc, for the whole country, or in terms of catching up or poverty eradication. Unfortunately, they're not doing too well in this area either, and I see that they have something to do, but instead of reforming the system, they're making it worse today. It also shows that they have no idea what to do.
u2023-06-16-294	Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Secretary of State Zoltán Maruzsa. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2023-06-16-295	Thank you again for the floor. First, Gy. I would like to respond to the comments of Mrs Erzsébet Németh. I remember the events of 2012-13 well, and also when in 2017 the state took over the operation of the institutions that were taken over in 13 precisely because most of the problems were due to this mixed marriage. I also remember very well that when we completed the national technical screening of the buildings taken over in 17th grade, we had 60 percent of the problem building stock. Between 2018 and 2022 4576 renovations, investments and projects have therefore been launched, which, by the way, I think have actually been seen in this building stock. Now, isn't it, because of war inflation and the explosion of energy prices? [[Szabó Timea: Ouch! Dr. Zoltán Komáromi: Oh, no! At least not here.]] we are in a more difficult and cost-effective budgetary position, but I look forward to rebooting and continuing the programme that will also implement the rest of the building stock. I would add that if someone looked back at the change in GDP, it was very important that GDP was massively broken in 2008-09, minus 6 percent of the time. This, of course, rearranges the proportions. Thank you, too, Gy. Erzsébet Németh's comment that he confirmed that the bill was indeed not about the number of school psychologists. This is an area governed by a regulation, and there will be no change, so we will provide the current numbers, and we will even work on the further development of the school psychology system, especially the professional service-traveling line. We heard a long talk by David Bedő. You look good on the cathedral, so if you ever want to get on the education line, you're very welcome. With regard to the presentation of the EU process, I would like to highlight a fact that I have said in a number of places, but I see that it is quite dwindling. The Hungarian government did not invent the fact that we want to use EU funds for teacher's wages. You know that it was the European Commission that, compared to its predecessors in EU resource planning, said that it was not the governments who were left to propose what they wanted to use EU funds for, but it is the Commission that has made massive proposals in this regard. This proposal also came from the European Commission to fund teachers' wages jointly, from national budgets and from EU funds. This is rare, so I can say that it is historic in the history of EU fund insurance, because it is typically not possible to mobilise resources for this kind of fund insurance before. This has changed in the field of health, when the first EU opportunities for medical wages were opened up during the epidemic period, followed by the recommendation of EU officials for teacher wages. And since then, in the lengthy negotiations, I can say that we are prisoners of each other in this area as well. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] In connection with Agnes Kunhalmi's comment, I would like to confirm that I believe that this 30,000 stock of kindergarten educators is one of the circles that can be a particular winner of this new career model. After all, they, I can say, have always been at the bottom of the 114 pay categories in the tight wage regulation that has developed over the decades. A key element of the 114 categories is the level of education, and kindergarten educator training is a college education, master's education in this area has not been established, and thanks to this, the average allowance of kindergarten educators has long been lower than, say, the average wage of high school teachers. Of course, this can be justified, and there should be no misunderstanding, but I think in a world where, thanks to the Bologna system, the world of college and university education, basic and master's education has changed to a completely different career, we do not necessarily have to keep this in a rigid structure as it was until recently. I regard this as a historical tradition; I urged that we remove the differences in this, and rather we try to make the performance and quality of the pedagogical work a directing principle of the new wage system. It really follows that one of the large winning groups of the new system, if you can say so, could be the circle of kindergarten educators. We were able to hear honest voices about the downsizing. Indeed, it is a challenge for all governments to reduce student numbers and children. Mr Barkóczi, in his speech to the speaker, did not go back by accident until 2003, when he sought to support a decrease in the number of teachers. I think whoever was the maintainer at the time, and who took what kind of resources, can look at the huge downsizing on the CSF website: this is 2008-2009, minus 15 thousand people. And I've told you in my expo since then, it's also KSH data, it's very accessible, with a few clicks you can see, really since 2010, the number of teachers has decreased by 3 percent, 4 thousand people, and the number of students by 13 percent. As far as the hours are concerned, 22-26 only affects some of the teachers, since not all of us have this tracked number of hours. So what we have here, as a proposal, may apply to a group of stakeholders, this 24-hour single regulation. I indicated in the expo myself that the negotiations are still taking place in this area. The 32-hour fixed working time is not changed by the draft, so there is no change in this area in the 32-hour period; nor does the question of 40-hour hours in general change. What Mrs Agnes Kunhalmi said, indeed, a line has appeared in the media as early as February-March that the government is here to drastically increase the numbers and that it will be 48 hours. We indicated in the discussions that this was in one place, as it is currently mentioned in Mt. regulation of the level of weekly working time up to a maximum working time limit. But no one had any intention of amending this, by the way. I personally indicated in the discussions that if this was read that the government was going to increase it to 48 hours, we would like to disprove this in the strongest terms, especially because if someone thought about it, it would be the pointless category to let the children go home from school anyway, but we would like to keep colleagues until nightfall for some inexplicable reason. It's not gonna happen. Since the working hours are indeed fixed for 40 hours, this ambiguous portion of the bill has been left behind. We work with a working time frame, but the school's abilities, working with weekly and daily hours, according to a pedagogical program, make the different numbers completely incomprehensible. [[1.50]] What is the ratio in financial matters is an ongoing negotiation with the European Commission. You all know that's not the primary issue yet. The government was practically a significant wage reserve in the next year's budget; this is how it acted in the previous years, from which we secured and financed the wage increases in the budget that we have provided in the form of allowances in the last three years. This will be done in this new structure next year by making available a wage mass. The proportion of domestic budgets and EU funding is primarily the issue of call for funds with the European Union. So it's not in stone, it's not in regulation yet, but it's in the flexibility field that the government has created a reserve that provides sufficient room for manoeuvre. Nor will I reveal a secret if I say that when the possibility of calling funds for the government is created these resources, and I am sure that sooner or later, both the European Commission and the Hungarian Government will meet their achievements when the possibility of calling funds occurs, we will try to draw the largest possible source as soon as possible. This is in the interests of the Hungarian people, this is in the interest of the budget; in this I see no conflict of interest between government and opposition. When the resources can arrive, we will do everything we can to ensure that this happens as soon as possible and that the European Union and the budgetary resources can be used as soon as possible. At present, the Hungarian State guarantees what we have undertaken from the national budget and, as of 1 July, it also provides the surplus that is included in the bill by raising the band boundaries and providing the HH bonus. This is another item, which is a significant burden on the national budget, which we provide from wage reserves, precisely so that, until the funds arrive from the European Union, the wages of teachers will continue to rise. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-06-16-296	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Zoltán Maruzsa. Dear Parliament, There is another speaker who has been announced. I give the floor to Congresswoman Judit Ráczné Földi in a 15-minute time frame.
u2023-06-16-297	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, First of all, I would like to thank you. Thank you and I am grateful to all teachers who, despite all the difficulties, humiliating salaries, have stuck to their chosen vocations. The Hungarian teaching society is rebelling. The strikes and demonstrations supported by the large masses of students and parents, which have lasted for over a year, draw society's attention to an extremely serious threat: to further depreciation and depreciation of the teacher's career. The government reacted quickly. First he used the means of intimidation, and now he's about to change the laws. The name of the draft of the law was given to him because the government wanted revenge on teachers and students with this law. [[Dr. Zoltán Maruzsa Viktor is leaving the meeting.]] Teacher work is one of the foundations of society, the life path of growing generations, and thus a decisive influence on society as a whole. Nothing could express this more clearly than traditional folk wisdom. According to the Chinese proverb, if you plan for a year, sow rice; if you plant wood for a decade; if you plan for life, educate people. A Japanese proverb points out that it is worth more than a thousand days of busy learning a day with an excellent teacher. We have a lot of excellent teachers. Why don't we honor them? In 2019 more than 4,500 teachers were needed at the start of the school year. In fact, 75,000 teachers will retire in 15 years and there will be no replacement; there is a shortage of professionals in teacher training; but what may be even more pressing problems, and probably all of this will be linked to the social position and financial appreciation of teachers in Hungary. Let us look at the remuneration of teachers, as this is measured and comparable in an exact way. Of the economically developed or relatively developed countries, Switzerland pays its teachers best, followed closely by the Netherlands, Germany and Belgium. In these countries, teachers' salaries are higher than national average salaries, sometimes much higher. Why do we have to keep our teachers starving? The Hungarian government policy has a seriously outdated view of wage policy against teachers. A teacher with 15 years of experience, or non-starter, received only 40 percent of the national average wage in 2012, 13 and 20. This is much lower than all the countries mentioned above. A beginner educator who studied 17-18 years to enter the classroom receives the same salary as an auxiliary worker. In 2021, a starting educator's salary of HUF 203 thousand was EUR 570, compared with the German starting teacher, who receives more than four times the salary of EUR 2850. However, Hungarian teachers' salaries are not only ridiculously low compared to the rich Western countries. Teachers also receive much higher financial recognition in Slovakia, Estonia or Poland. Even in Latin American Columbia, third world, it's about $5,000 a year better to start a teacher's salary. Members of the Hungarian government obviously know these facts. Then what can justify this policy? If knowledge and learning are the key to the future of society as a whole, then we can rightly say that the Hungarian government is undermining the future. Is it normal and appropriate, according to you, for government representatives, to extort teachers who have resigned because of the status law? On the basis of the relevant bill, who say in writing between 15 and 29 September this year that they will not accept the change of law, they will receive only one month, between 20 and 30 years of age, and three months' severance pay. It is also clear from the bill that anyone who does good will accept the change of status after 20 years will receive an eight-month severance pay, while those who already have a 20-year employment relationship, but now in September, they say that they refuse to continue working under the status law, only two months. Do you think that's okay? According to Erzsébet Nagy, Managing Director of the Democratic Trade Union of Teachers, the measure is completely foreign to the world of work. It has only one purpose: to force colleagues to adopt the status law and to deter them from leaving the field, and to punish those who are going to leave anyway. The consequences of this vengeance law are not just for teachers. They further undermine the chance for students to gain the knowledge they need to succeed in school. Or is it also intended that as many students as possible continue their studies in private institutions? Is it the same purpose as in health care? You do realize, my dear members of the government, that the payment of private education is a privilege of very few parents, don't you? According to expert opinions, the Vengeance Act would not improve, but would clearly make the situation of education worse in Hungary. The measures needed to improve education can be taken without the Vengeance Act, and they had 13 years! The Vengeance Act undermines the labour law of teachers, renders the basic conditions necessary for the good functioning of education impossible, while seriously violating parental and student rights. Civil society organisations have been ready to participate as partners in legislation to develop the concepts and project proposals necessary for the establishment of the education strategy. Civil society organisations have a number of detailed proposals that have already been made available to education management without any feedback or feedback. [[2.00]] Why is government treating NGOs who do not like them as pariahs? Why do you allow decades of experience to be wasted simply to prove by force who is the master of the dam? This is what the Vengeance Act is about, only the inventor of the law can be right, only the ones he describes can be included in the Hungarian Gazette. The government is doing everything in its power to prevent the serious problems of the education system from appearing in the news of everyday life, as the government rules most of the media, thus deceiving people with false information. As Viktor Orbán used to be at the government of Viktor Orbán, there was still a lack of substantive discussions, although now there is a constant rumor that this has happened. The nearly one hundred-page draft legislation was issued on 5 March for social debate by posting it on the government's website. They waited eight days for comments. Although this is formally in line with the rules, no one really believes that eight days in a case of such importance will be sufficient to develop a prudent opinion. To this day, the government has not stood before the public and has not explained its purpose with the vengeance law. The government doesn't respect not only opposition voters, but also its own voters. He doesn't think they're grown-ups, he just dictates his will to them. The future of this country, the prosperity of our offspring, must be borne in the heart of those who are educators now. Let us support their struggle and make it clear that by taking measures to regulate and intimidate them, the government cannot achieve a goal. We're not going to support the Vengeance Act. Who will teach in Hungary in 10 to 20 years? Who will choose this profession? It's not a profession, it's a profession. Dear members of the government. Haven't you ever asked yourself these questions when every day, every day, there's news of a teacher's shortage, school closure, unspent hours? Don't these news get to you? Do you only get the news of success or do you read it? I would like to give an example of how disastrous the situation is. I know we've been hearing this for years in health care, and somehow the system is working. So they expect things to happen the same way here. You think you're yelling a little bit, making a little noise, but in September, all teachers will go back to teaching. Let's see. A parent's IT high school son had the last informatikatana in September, that's when the last teacher quit. That was months ago. The boy had five so-called project weeks in the school year, which means that there is no education for a week, because there are so few teachers that they teach one half of the school and not the other. His high school son hasn't had a physical education class in a month and a half because of his quitting PE teachers. In Székesfehérvár, a 40 - year - old primary school was closed from one moment to the next. And students of a school in Yanő have just learned that they have to go to another institution from September 2023. A parent with three children will take his children to schools in up to three separate settlements. By the time you're done with the morning circle, you can turn back for them. Are you sure this is the way it's supposed to be? There is a shortage of biology, geography, physics educators, there is a school where there are four teachers in eight junior classes, so they send the Hungarian teachers working in the upper grades to teach in the lower classes. Are you aware of that? The Hunyadi Mátyás Primary School of Törökszentmiklós lacks at least six different teachers and many teachers. There is no Hungarian teacher in Géza Géza Primary School of Dabas. Teacher and vocal-music educator are constantly wanted. There are already thousands of job advertisements at school and kindergarten on the public sector job portal. Are you watching these? According to the government, there's never been a wage increase for teachers. However, we see that the budget for 2024 does not contain any substantial shift in education expenditure. As Viktor Orbán said in his interview this morning about the budget for 2024, I hope we can hit the numbers as well. Shouldn't we be playing the lottery? But seriously, shouldn't you finally adopt legislation that is in line with the agreement with the Union? The adoption of the Vengeance Act makes it almost impossible for more and more people to choose this profession. Unpredictability, humiliatingly low pay, has already deterred young people from becoming educators. Instead of the necessary transformations, those remaining on the track will be eviscerated, accompanied by distorted measures. Please consider and withdraw this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the opposition.]]
u2023-06-16-298	Thank you, Congresswoman Judit Ráczné Earth. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Komáromi for two minutes, DK.
u2023-06-16-299	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Unfortunately, Mr. Secretary has gone, and then I pressed the button because I wanted to adjust it a little bit. Because in the years that he talked about, and I underline that the school maintainer at that time was clearly the municipality, not 17 thousand, but 7 thousand jobs were lost, and not in a year, but in four years, so it can be reorganized a little in the order of magnitude. I just wanted to correct that.
u2023-06-16-300	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, 15-minute comments will follow in the following order: Szabó Timea, Ferenc Varga, László György Lukács and Zita Gurmai. So, first of all, I give the floor to Congresswoman Szabó Timea, Dialogue.
u2023-06-16-301	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, It's after 2:00 a.m. now, and I'd like to ask that if we've been here almost ten hours now, at least we don't numb each other with this kind of war inflation and stuff. Really, there's Eurostat's very clear statistics. Countries with much greater direct borders with Ukraine, such as Poland, Romania or Slovakia, have 14 percent inflation and 24.5% inflation in Hungary. But in Romania it is 10 percent, so in Hungary it is 2 1/2 times. I ask you very nicely again and for the last time, I understand that propaganda dictates that we now have to repeat this as a parrot commando, but there is no war inflation, but there is inflation in Orbán. I'm saying this to Secretary Maruzsa, who, unfortunately, is not here now, but she managed to bring this in. But let us return to the fact that there is inflation, but the inflation in Orbán, and what it wrote a year and a half ago, not now, a year and a half ago, when there was no money in Brussels, only a concrete government promise that there would be a wage increase. And I would also like to remind my fellow Members of Fidesz that more than a year and a half ago, the intensive protest of teachers began. This is the continued protest that has been going on for the longest or longest time in the last 13 years that hasn't stopped. It may not be a big, explosive, world-changing effect, but these people, teachers, students and parents have been begging you for over a year and a half. Let's look at what he wrote on January 13, 2022, so a year and a half ago, Varga Sarah, a teacher, was thinking for a long time that I didn't want to talk about my salary, because it's private, it's unworthy to mention it, it's embarrassing, and I don't want anyone to feel sorry for me either. I don't want the latter now, but I still feel it's time to tell you about the teacher's wages, because it's a social problem, just like the ones I write about. [[2.10]] It's just that I'm very involved here. In recent days, an open letter from an anonymous career-starting educator has appeared, and there is talk of all kinds of wage increases, which is why this topic has become topical again. And that's because it's real. In my fourth year, after graduation in a class, in the so-called pedagogical career model, my net salary is currently HUF 178 193 above the internship level. Once again: HUF 178 193 for your net salary. To be more precise: my salary was added to the professional sectoral allowance, because my basic salary is approximately HUF 160,000. My next month's salary will increase to HUF 207 thousand due to a further increase in the bonus. So, not my salary is increasing, but my allowance, which can be taken at any time. Teacher wages are still tied to the minimum wage for 2014. It is clear to all people with earnings, customers and bills, how much we have to pay to settle our basic needs these days. I can work as a teacher because I don't have to pay rent thanks to my parents. I can't imagine what would happen if I had to live in a place like this. At the end of the month, I'll think twice about buying fruit. It is not possible to make a decent living out of 178 193 forints, and it does not even occur to me to build up savings. And that's where the big questions of existential anxiety come to me about how long I can live in the apartment I'm living in right now, and if I can think of starting a family, how can I raise a child? It creates a completely hopeless financial situation when a person chooses children as his profession, a beginner and a colleague who has been on the field for 30 years. The same applies to kindergarten educators, school psychologists, maintenance workers, technical workers, cleaners. In school, people working for the smoothness of everyday life, for a clean and safe environment, and for raising children work for an unworthy amount of money. And they're gonna run out. A friend of mine from geography history teaches math at elementary school because there's no teacher. I've got at least four college friends, friends we're done with, and they're considering leaving, and many of them don't work as teachers anymore. There are many who haven't even started teaching me. I have a lot of colleagues who do second jobs and extra work because their primary job doesn't pay. Out of dedication, however pathetic that word may sound, even frozen food cannot be bought. And dedication will also wear off sooner or later, because in addition to the material, there are many other wounds in the education system. I've heard more than once that you don't have to work in this business. That's right, I could stand up. Another question is that I am not the most useful to myself and society if I do a job in which I am motivated. But I've never heard anyone say that his kid doesn't need a teacher. And if these professions are really important from a social point of view, then I think it is important to put out the problems of my profession, as well as other problems, so that as many as possible know that there may once be a chance for change, that there may not be silence. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Ladies and gentlemen, It was said, then, that a teacher, who is about a beginner, had already completed four classes with a net return of HUF 178 thousand. We also heard in this letter that geography-history teachers are already teaching math. We know what the result is. What we have already said here many times is that 16,000 teachers are missing from the system, and now thousands have promised it, and instead threatened us, parents, students, from the point of view of society as a whole, by quitting because they cannot make a living with that kind of money. But in the same way, there is also a letter, and I will not read it in full, but the medical educator writes that he will bring home 200,000 forints. However, he has colleagues who have also gone to Germany to work as a medical educator with a Hungarian degree. There, a beginner educator's monthly salary is about 1470 euros, with today's exchange rate of 470 thousand forints, a more experienced specialist can bring home up to 5,000 euros, isn't it? We also see, ladies and gentlemen, that when these schoolteacher bans began, rightfully, it all started with teachers begging you since 2013 to give them a fair wage. Not so that, like you, you can walk with luxurious walkers or the megaphonists you hold out, like Kálmán Rákay, who rides with gold Mercedes, but because, as this educator describes, he can buy fruit or have children. You care so much about having children, it's important for all of us, because we're in a demographic disaster right now, but they're giving teachers salaries that they can't have children. That's not fair. Then, when these protests started, you tried to make it look like it was some kind of downtown libsi thing, a protest, and, in fact, it only concerns a small layer of people, and technically, let's say, teachers in the countryside or teachers working in church schools, they would be completely satisfied with the system. Compared to this, we have seen that there have been constant protests, and more and more religious schools have protested against teacher firings, against unfair treatment. In the case of the eight dismissed high school colleagues, the Piarista High School also spoke. It was written when the redundancies were:. The case of the eight colleagues who were dismissed last week highlights urgently the need for a common, united, firm stand in education. We cannot allow teachers of state and church institutions to be confronted in this situation. Putting aside the differences in worldview and style, we must stand up together for the common goal, and for the rise of education, the 18 teachers of Piarista High School wrote in their communication. According to the teachers of the church school, the impossibility of educators' right to strike is due to the fact that real cessation of employment in education is possible only through civil disobedience, and expressing solidarity with all those who, I quote, have been retorted because of their brave stand for justice. Again, there is a quote:. The punishment for civil disobedience, referring to the letter of the law, also shows that the representatives of power see only the surface of the deep crisis, its symptoms, they only want to account for the consequences, and their causes are ignored. Referring to the interests and rights of students as justification for dismissals is false. The best interest of students is in the current state of education. Those who speak out for this reform and protest with the ultimate means of cessation of work have written in the communication in the long term in the interest of students and quote from the Catholic Church's Catechism, according to which the citizen's conscience obliges him not to obey the requirements of civil authorities when they contradict the requirements of moral order, the fundamental rights of persons, and the teaching of the gospel. A joint statement was also issued by teachers from several other church schools, most of whom teach at the Reformed Lyceum in Gödöllő. The resolution was signed by a large part of the school's faculty, including teachers of faith and the school minister. In this article, 15 teachers from their school attended the teacher's graduation, which was an awareness-raising action of the teachers of church schools in November in order to resolve the situation of education. As they write, they hoped that their mildly and respectfully expressed protests and suggestions would lead to a meaningful dialogue on the situation of education, but they were disappointed and believed that they could no longer listen. The education management does not want to hear our opinion, is not open to symbolic protests, but responds to teachers' desperate cry for help in the language of force, through intimidation, while making vague promises only concerning the pay issue. It was written and, in the hope of true truth and freedom, asked political decision-makers to take the path of dialogue. [[2.20]] So these were the words of the teachers of the Reformed Lyceum of Gödöllő. Back in December, a part of the teachers at the Dániel Berzsenyi Evangelical High School and College issued a statement expressing their protest and outrage over the dismissal of the eight teachers. Although he falsely refers to the fulfilment of the student's obligation to teach and his right to culture, in fact he himself creates a much more aggravating and aggravating situation that undermines the cited rights of students, adding to their careers and the children's still persistent teachers were written by the teachers of the Brenzenyi Dániel Evangelical High School and College. They believe that the removal of protesting teachers is a vision of a system that, simplifying education to the extreme, treats the issue of education as a matter of organisation deprived of all humanities and is unable to feel its true depth, purpose to be achieved and desirable means. They believe that this procedure refers solely to the letter of the law and does not take into account the spirit of the law, which would allow real freedom and the transfer of real values. After the civil disobedience of 24 teachers, protested at the Evangelical High School of Budapest-Fasori in December 22 too. They wrote that with our action we will show solidarity with the 13 teachers who have been dismissed from their school during the autumn because they dared to protest against the unsustainable conditions in education. I will continue in the next speech, but please note that church schools here are equally violated by this law that we are about to submit. Thank you. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-06-16-302	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Timea Szabó. I give the floor to independent Congressman Ferenc Varga in a 15-minute time frame.
u2023-06-16-303	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, At the beginning of my speech, I will also start by delivering a message, which is a message from a mother from the centre of my constituency, Szentes. I have no secret intention of reaching out to the Secretary of State in front of me in case little Bence of Rétvári speaks from the inside and tells me to stop the joke they're doing now and to withdraw this law. I'm writing to you because of the Pedagogist's Vengeance Act. Put your hands on your hearts and think that you were children too. They had their favorite kindergarten aunt, then their teacher aunt or uncle, who took the hands of the tiny, few-year-old child at that time and introduced them into the mysteries of numbers, letters, patiently explained, passed on the knowledge they have been able to base themselves on, and as a result you can be parliamentary representatives today. With the teacher's law, they want to permanently take away all the security and freedom needed for education and education; it's not as if at present there are teachers and even teachers. As a parent, it is known that a child or two need infinite patience, not to mention an entire class of students. We need deep faith and spiritual strength to be able to pass on knowledge to both the good student and the less good and the disadvantaged children. You want to vote for the Teacher's Revenge Act because you think there's nothing else you can do. But they can: they won't vote for it. They face the will of Viktor Orbán, and for once they listen to their conscience. They don't pin our children on the educational institutions. You're working on mute teachers and an apparent solution to a teacher's shortage, which our children are going to be paying for. More teachers will leave the field and there will be no one to teach our children. How do you think that's gonna work? Is this the family-friendly government? Prove it. Ensure the safe physical and mental development of children at government level! I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I see the letter didn't impress the Secretary of State that much. Ladies and gentlemen, You've heard, this is what a family mother thinks of your law of vengeance, and I'm convinced that you're not alone in this attitude, because for the past 13 years, everything that's important to our country's future has been abandoned. In 2011, education reached 4.7 per cent of GDP, but next year, according to the draft, it will not be only 3.9 per cent. So we can say that the amount of resources for education increases nominally compared to this year, but because of inflation in Orbán, this means a decrease in real value of 13 per cent, about 800 billion minus for education, an amount corresponding to a month and a half of support. So you took a month and a half of your education. Is that what you're so proud of? For years, teachers have been getting embarrassingly low wages. In the last two years alone, more than 8,000 people have left the track, the government has not yet given a significant wage increase, and even the wage increase in line with inflation has failed, even though it would have depended only on government intentions, political will. How do they expect our children to gain adequate knowledge in such a system, not to mention what will happen to disadvantaged students who require much more attention than their peers? Today, teachers are not motivated to teach disadvantaged children effectively. Education is the most important basis for Roma inclusion, which should serve the purpose of enabling growing generations to gain knowledge and professional qualifications that ensure effective labour market implementation. So it is of great importance what knowledge they acquire in their primary and secondary studies. We need quality education, we need appreciation and support for teachers, because they are the ones who care for the future generation. There's a lot of slippages in government communication about the law. Let us consider some of these examples. You say that the submission of the bill has been preceded by the most comprehensive and longest negotiation of all time. Compared to this, the government was only on merit with the organisations it supported, who were financially dependent on the government, but only with the independent organisations. It is said that the draft law was issued by the Ministry of Interior on 2 March 2023 for social consultation. They gave eight days to comment on the more than one hundred pages of legal text without any meaningful explanation, and after more than three months they did not respond to the opinions received, either individually or in summary. According to Fidesz, 74 percent of respondents agreed that employee pay should be differentiated on the basis of performance. In reality, when educators were asked about performance-based pay, the details of this were not yet known, and the participants of the survey could not have known that the law would also increase their workload and vulnerability. Then they like to refer to the fact that by January 2025, according to the current calculations, teachers' average wages could reach HUF 800 thousand, even though there is no concrete provision in the bill for increases in salaries. Wage bands have only been given broad intervals, which means that there is no guarantee of a significant wage increase. They claim that those who teach more effectively will be more concerned with catching up with the missing children, preparing for the talented ones to compete, who are more innovative, who organises an extracurricular program, will achieve higher incomes. Compared to this, the planned benchmarking system compares teachers within the institution and in any case qualifies a quarter of teachers as underperforming, so they cannot receive any extra wages. A quarter of the teachers would get the raise. Even though an educator does an excellent job, if he doesn't get the highest score in the institution, he doesn't get extra wages for his work. Teachers can have wage tension, and their wages depend on the director's favor. I think we should also talk about the fact that the large national government does not imagine raising the wages of Hungarian teachers as a matter of national competence, but makes it dependent on EU funds. However, raising educators' wages is not a condition of EU support. However, it is a requirement for Hungary to create legislation that makes the teaching career attractive, which does not detract acquired rights, and does not entail a reduction in autonomy. Compared to this, we have this proposal before us. [[2.30]] You, as they say, hope that if these measures are implemented, it will be a significant attraction to the track, and that the clock load will also be reduced. Due to the amendment of the law, thousands of teachers are expected to resign, and this may significantly increase the clock load of those remaining on the track. The draft law submitted makes it clear that the government is also expecting an increase in the burden on teachers. In short, you're lying all over the place, protecting the indefensible and playing to destroy education. This is not a game, this is the future of our country. For the past 13 years, however, it has turned out that we will only have a future if you stop living in the nation.
u2023-06-16-304	Thank you very much, Congressman Ferenc Varga. I now give the floor to Congressman László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, in a 15-minute time frame.
u2023-06-16-305	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The discussion has been going on all day about what is really missing, what is the problem in public education, and how the bill answers that. We have to say that the bill is pro-government and answers to almost everything, but there are many criticisms, and there are many professional positions that say that it does not give rise to the real problem, that the lack of human resources, i.e. the drop-off of teachers, leaving the course, even the entry problems, how comfortable they are in their jobs, how they see a future, how they see a career. In fact, it does not seem to treat and deal well with this bill, so everything that surrounds public education as an environment does not answer the essential problems. But you can see it, and I think that the pro-government representatives know that there is a problem in education, not only is there to think about spending data relative to GDP, but there are also indicators and indicators that show that there is a problem. The government has seen and seen and worked, in line with its commitments in the operational programme for the development of human resources and in the EFOP Plus, beyond exploring how to respond to this. A draft law has also been drawn up in this regard and this has been presented to the European Community. He's pretty good at what kind of problems we're dealing with. For example, it was such an undertaking, and this is perhaps one of the most important commitments that has been said in this debate, that, in order to increase the attractiveness of the teaching profession, the target is to increase the wages of teachers to 80% of the average pay of graduates by 2025. From this application material it was clear and included that the government had already diagnosed the most important problems of the Hungarian education and public education system by the summer of last year. It is also worth looking at what they are, because these are the results of the past 13 years, if you like, or the shortcomings that have not been corrected by a government mandate of two thirds of 13 years, adding that education may be one of the very big, important sectors in which you have been fully empowered to clean up. I also have to say about health, but also about education, it has to be said that perhaps one of the government's historical shortcomings and sins is that, not living with a historical mandate, it has not started reforms or changes, so these large supply systems and our large systems have not been able to keep pace with technological change and demographic change, so they have not been able to stand in order for the development of the Hungarian community, the Hungarian people. We have wasted almost every year of the last 13 years, and the development of each sector, each sector, has progressed in a hen step. Let's see what these issues are. In terms of expenditure per student, Hungary is below the OECD average, says this report. In terms of education, there is an uneven territorial distribution, affecting more disadvantaged regions and, as a result, disadvantaged pupils. I must add that I too came from Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County from an area where there are more and more disadvantaged and disadvantaged children. One of today's sad reasons is that, thanks to disadvantaged children and the related segregation and desegregation rules, it was necessary to say goodbye to and close a long-standing elementary school in Karcag. Of course, the problem could not be solved, because Roma children who were studying there were disbanded and distributed in an ugly way in other schools in the city, thus making it possible to assume what percentage of children with multiple disadvantages should be there. But let's just say, the school on Arany János Street has been the victim of the rural degradation and deficiency that you have revealed here. But the same problem can be seen from the analysis of the coral and deficit areas that there are structural challenges facing public education. The relative situation of Hungarian teachers in primary and secondary education is significantly below the European average, as reported in the 2019 and 20 country reports. In this regard, I also think it is worth noting that teachers in Hungary, although a little ahead of those working in the social sector, are now lagging behind not only the European average but also the average in the neighbouring countries. What we need to see is that Hungary has gone ahead rather than borrow the term from you, in fact, on these issues in relation to the neighbouring countries, and that is our shared responsibility. At such a late hour, it may be said that we all have a common responsibility, both for the government and for the opposition, but let us admit that in the past 13 years, in the previous 13 years, in an emergency situation of nearly 4,000 days, during emergency governance, the Prime Minister and the Government have had the opportunity to take a meaningful step in this and to do something for the wage catch-up. It was described as evidence that the pedagogical population is getting older. I think that today we have heard data from 2019 that 45 percent of teachers were 50 years of age or older, and that the reason for the lack of competitive pay, the starting salary of teachers, is one of the lowest in the European Union. Despite the wage increases made in recent years, Hungary is one of the four countries where the statutory wage is the lowest and the actual average wage. In Hungary, the increase in teacher wages by age is one of the countries where the overall percentage increase is relatively high, but the increase is less relevant at the beginning of the teacher's career, and it usually takes a significant period of service to reach the highest pay range. With 42 years of service, an average increase of 84 percent can be achieved. This means that teachers often receive the highest possible salary for a short period of time, and not all teachers can achieve it at all. We can see that one measure of every profession is how much it gives a future and an opportunity or an opportunity to run a career, if you don't like it, if you don't like it, if you don't like it and you don't find it attractive, you'll have a lot less choice. We've been through this with law enforcement, we've seen it with health professionals. Now that almost all these sectors belong to the Ministry of the Interior, I think they can see precisely that this is the problem with all their professions. Maybe doctors are the only exception now, thanks to the wage development of the last year or two. Let's look at the starting points. We're talking about the relative earnings situation. It is part of and important to say that we see a bigger picture, that the wages of teachers and the average wages of Hungarians are so low, and the average wages of teachers are very well shown by the Hungarian average wage, and this seriously affects teachers, that more than 16 years of wages should be put aside by a Hungarian teacher to buy an average-sized apartment in Budapest, so that otherwise he does not eat or spend anything. You're gonna have to save 16 years of your earnings. We can see that those who want to enter this beautiful profession must, after all, expect that they will probably not be able to create a home in comparison to their family, children, or future at all. [[2.40]] However, what we see in Hungary is that instead of renting, everyone prefers private property, and it is still moving in the direction of both the real estate market and capital accumulation that people live in own-owned property. In recent years, Hungary has had the lowest wage rise, and we have not been able to reach Austria, but even the EU average, and this is a real disaster not only for the average wage and not only for the wages of workers, but also for the wages of teachers, because we can see that they fully reflect and may even be below the average wage, how tragic we are. That is why we say that we need decent wages in Hungary, and that decent work deserves decent wages. This is a picture of a normal Hungary, where normal wages can be created, and we need to create a normal Hungary and a normal life. Perhaps this is the golden middle road that conservative thinkers or anyone who views society conservatively can embrace. But let's look at the following statement. The population of teachers is growing older, and I also mentioned 45 percent statistics showing the system over the age of 50. There is a school in Hungary now, and not so far away, here in the agglomeration, where they stand up with much sadder data, and they face an age-old population beyond that. In Hungary, teachers enjoy full professional autonomy, the choice of pedagogical methods, the content requirements are included in the NAT, the master plan. There are a great deal of incentive measures written and written about the country's report. The thing is, that's how the government sees it, but that's not how teachers perceive it, teachers and parents don't feel it. So here it was basically a cosmetic treatment of the government's commitments. The only one and most important conclusion I think could be that the 21st century was the 21st century. A public education that responds to the challenges of the 20th century could be created, and this is the key to achieving a stable level of wage. This is why we need to get the teachers on the road with some form of wage promotion and put them in the right direction. Among the strategic objectives of the country analysis, it was written that the average wage of Hungarian public education workers should be gradually closer to the OECD average average salary, so that you would like to achieve this at least by August 2025 to reach 80%. That's what they say in the Pestian way. That's what they say in the Pistol. In particular, you have just tabled a austerity package of 200 billion over the past period. We were talking about our spending on GDP, and public education and education are not a priority compared to the development of the economy, so these resources are unlikely to be guaranteed. You are looking to the European Community for these resources, but I would add that the European Community is particularly and closely monitoring the progress of the status law and the relationship and wage arrangement of teachers, so that every commitment, every slip-up on this issue threatens not only to enable teachers to raise their wages, but also to threaten that these resources can be returned to Hungary at all. The Jobbik-Conservatives have always made this clear, and we have always voted in favour of the bill that was here because we believe in it and we know that it is the money of the Hungarian people, and those money belongs to us, and we have to bring it home, but we see that you have been unable to bring it home for a year. We can read it from Tibor Navracsics for ten minutes, and perhaps our fellow Member Dávid Bedő has made the statements that always, as some, let's say, gullible man, vowed which week, which month the money will come, and always another month, and always said an upcoming, very soon-to-be date and condition, and, compared to that, Hungary is at a point where it will not have access to the funds it deserves. If you do not treat the status law well and, in the present situation, it seems that this is the case, and the Jobbik-Conservatives will not be able to vote in this form, then you are threatening to give our country access to all the other EU funds. What is simply to be seen, and it will have to be understood in some way by the Brussels community and the European Community, is that it cannot constantly punish Hungary because of the government's mistakes, because this is basically what is happening. Your government activities, your omissions, are essentially punishing the Hungarian people, and we do not have the resources that belong to us. As a conclusion, it can therefore be concluded that the status law does not actually help or even increase problems affecting education. According to the Jobbik-Conservatives, and this has been said, otherwise, it is not from the devil to have a professional law. This has worked for other professions, it could offer them a good career and a wonderful career, but your proposal is not the answer. For us, education is a priority nation strategy sector, and therefore we in teachers see not the servants to be dismissed, but the responsible intellectuals. Ladies and gentlemen, Don't be surprised, where the governing party is convinced by Little Count at the cultural table, there seems to be no source and perhaps there is no will to settle the teachers' wages and the bad situation of education. Thank you very much for your patience.
u2023-06-16-306	Thank you very much, Congressman László György Lukács. I give the floor to Ms Zita Gurmai, MSZP, within a 15-minute time frame.
u2023-06-16-307	Thank you very much. Mr President, I'm waiting for Mr. Secretary of State's eyes to see you follow what I'm saying. By the way, I would like to give you a situation report from Parliament: there are three quarters of three, six pro-government colleagues, including the senior president and the secretary of state. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: There is also a notary.]] And by the way, I have good news that there are more of us opposition representatives. I mean, I'm sorry, there's a hidden notary, and I can't see it from this angle, but I admit, there are seven of us, but there are at least nine of us, and five of them are women and four men. But seriously, three quarters to three, the question is that what we're doing here... [[Nacsa is talking to Lőrinc Rétvári Bencé.]] You're listening, aren't you? ! [[The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2023-06-16-308	Here. Congresswoman, continue your speech.
u2023-06-16-309	I am happy to do so, Mr. President. I would like to draw your attention, in the debate on the law on the career of teachers, to the fact that this proposal is not only about the status of teachers, but also about much more. Not just a career model, but the government's entire education policy. From 2010 to today, we need to assess its impact and many aspects before making this important decision. Our children will have to survive in a world where they will need constant adaptation and the ability to change, where we have survived a Covid, but I have already talked about this. The future of Hungarian students and this country is served by a school system that is not limited to XX. It is the 21st century's knowledge, but it is the 21st century's knowledge. It's capable of handing over centuries of knowledge. The Hungarian government, however, believes that if it builds a intellectual barricade around the country from a cult-kampf conceived for power purposes, it will deny and lie the challenges of the future. We believe that Hungarian youth must not be hidden from the future, but must do everything to prepare them for it. While the Minister for Education of the Government considers the spiritual and sacral education of Hungarians to be important, this is also important, but I would like to make it clear that for all Hungarian students, proper language education and modern knowledge are at least as important from IT. The education system should ensure that children and young people are able to learn and make use of the knowledge accumulated by mankind, to cultivate national and ethnic traditions. We can also summarize what we think of the task of Hungarian schools. I could say that this is a wise quote from the document "The Minimum Education." This is the document signed by educational professional and civil society organisations, interest representatives and us opposition parties together during the election campaign last February. [[2.50]] We owe it to us to fight for the common will of the most important actors in the Hungarian school system, for the implementation of the principles and programme points of the minimum education, to reduce the number of students by a quarter, to reduce the number of classes, to teach children to learn at school, to enable everyone to obtain a graduation, to give teachers back their school leave, to raise their wages, and to have a relaxing year for teachers every seven or eight years, so that the first degree will be free, and to abolish tuition debts. [[Bence Rétvári: Interestingly, the introductions to the tuition talk about a free degree. The president's ringing the bell.]] I love it so much that they say such smart things when I'm talking! [[Defiance on the opposition side.]] All this in order to determine only the personal ability, talent and diligence of a child, what will become of him as an adult, so that the children's way of learning is not determined by their place of residence, colour, social status of their family, or by decision-makers behind a desk who have already rescued their children from the state system. We are aware that the government and the head of government, which is in the face of power pride, is being ripped off by any kind of professionalism. This government and the Prime Minister are looking backwards, going backwards, not forwards, so they practically don't listen to anyone, let alone the opposition, or any reason. Therefore, in order to make a key change to the future of Hungarian children, we need to reorganize cooperation between those who have created and adopted the minimum programme for education. Not in the hope of joint photography or sound press releases, but in silence, but in any case in the confidence of each other, I would like to know what confidence there is in you, especially in the series of demonstrations that take place here or earlier. In order for the opening of the school year in Hungary not to be a hateful event, where every mother, every father can let go of his child's hand at the school gate without any anxiety, because he cannot be sure at all now, he does not know that they are given the knowledge that really gives them the opportunity to do more or get further than their parents do, I think that this is a rather important thing. If, on the other hand, we wish to politicalise for a fair, growing and modern Hungary, and I would like to believe that we all think so, on the way here we take the words of Albert Szent-Györgyi as a guide:.The future will be like that of today's school. If the Nobel Prize-winning scientist's sentence is true, and it is true to me, then I think there is a rather significant cause for concern for everyone who cares about the future of Hungary, the future of our children, the fate of our grandchildren; especially for parents who accompany more than one million Hungarian children throughout the country to school. Obviously, as parents, we share every mother and father's dream to make our children better than we do. Schools must serve this common dream, but today they do not serve it, but they are hindering it, because it is not possible to know whether Aunt Aranka or Aunt Judit can actually go through those four years, or whether the teacher is constantly changing in elementary school. And then I didn't tell you about high school students where classes are regularly cancelled, and there aren't enough teachers, because there aren't enough physics or there aren't enough geography teachers. While the Hungarian state spends hurtfully little on education compared to European countries, Minister of State, I look forward to your answer as to why, two thirds of Hungarian parents feel that the start of the academic year is a financial burden. While Hungary is the third from the back of the EU Member States in terms of the salary of high school teachers, we are the fourth from the back of the primary school level, while overworked students and teachers spend hundreds of hours more a year in primary school and secondary school than in other countries of Europe, besides mathematics, text understanding and natural science, Hungarian students also perform poorly in problem solving. The question is, what suggestions do you have in this regard? Plus, the numbers show incredible inequalities, the less wealthy are left without a chance, and that's your responsibility. But more clearly than the data, Tamás Vekerdy explains the biggest problem of today's school and even its sin:.The Hungarian school wants to raise obedient subjects instead of critical thinkers, and this goes against the world order. Let's add that it goes against the desire of Hungarian children, goes against the dream of parents or goes against the future of Hungary. Therefore, the wording of Tamás Vekerdy is no exaggeration:. This is an anti-national sin. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, There can be no doubt that this anti-national crime is committed by the government against children and their parents, also in Vekerdy's words: at the command of the supreme warlord, who even announced a ham campaign on Easter. The Prime Minister's naphthalene-scented world view and self-powerful interest in the Hungarian school system is not so funny, because his main opponent is a citizen capable of critical thinking, self-fulfilling, and he has an interest in the population of vulnerable, obedient subjects of the state. For this reason, tens of thousands of young Hungarians are forced into public work every year, into the cycle of job replacement support and occasional work. That's why our best students go abroad. Today, every hundredth Hungarian youth starts high school in Austria. So it's not just college students leaving the country, which is a very brutal number. And then we didn't talk about the fact that whoever could do it goes from public schools to private schools, and as a result, everyday experience and the fact that the school would, rather than eliminate it, amplify the disadvantages of home, is wasted day after day in front of us the future of this country. And then let's look at the numbers. Obviously, we know that inflation is pounding above 25 percent, and we also see that the budget of 2024 is supposed to spend HUF 3434 billion on education, i.e. HUF 629 billion more than in 2023. This represents a nominal increase of 22 per cent in real terms, i.e. an increase of four per cent, i.e. the inflation rate of 2023 and the projected inflation rate of 2024. However, the changes in the education and vocational training chapters of this budget by the end of 2024 are obviously still questionable. In real terms, the 4% increase in the increase in wages and standards is considered to be low. [[Sic!]] At the same time, the Chancellor said earlier that he wanted to give extra wages to teachers in the most deprived areas, but we cannot see the sources of this in the budget, although I trust that Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári will help me, I must admit, that we have failed to find the source of this. Some of the additional expenditure on education, as stated in the financial portfolio, serves to raise the wages of the teachers general, as planned with the arrival of EU funds, and has been spoken about for a long time by his fellow State Secretary. The level of wage increases for teachers can be 20 percent if we can close open issues with EU bodies. And believe me, we're rooting for you, because it's in our best interest to be a well-paid educator. Although I can tell you why a six-year-educated educator earns less than the trade worker, let's say, teller, this in itself is a significant question as to how this can happen in the country where the child counts for knowledge. [[3.00]] Well, the framework of kindergartens and primary schools increases by less than 6,6 percent in total, so these institutions can lose even if inflation increases by more than 6 percent that the government is counting on. High school must be in bad shape, their budget is only up by 3.5 percent. However, there is another educational line, which has been increased by 26 percent. I am excited, Mr. Deputy Minister, to see what that means. And then, in closing: the real value of VET spending is also increasing, but universities have an uneven picture, because the support of public universities is decreasing, but institutions with a model change will receive 6 percent more this year, i.e. they will stay with their money at least. Thank you very much for your attention, and, Mr. Secretary, I am confident that you still hesitate to withdraw. Thank you. [[Applause from the opposition ranks.]]
u2023-06-16-310	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai. In this round, honourable Parliament, DK Member, did not speak, so I give the floor to MEP Zoltán Varga, DK.
u2023-06-16-311	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Well, we have a lot to talk about. A lot of people have already said a lot about the madness before us, and I am trying, as far as possible, to organize and collect a little bit of what it is that we are talking about, so that my fellow members of the government can finally see clearly in this matter, because they are clearly perfectly able to cancel the communication panel, the lesson that I do not know who is preparing for you right now, the Habony or the Rogán works, I don't know, I suppose, for a very large amount of money, what to say to you at a given moment. I see that sometimes the narrative changes, the paths change, Soros disappears, sometimes comes out, Gyurcsány is spoken of undeservingly little. I think it's a bit embarrassing, so it's safe to do more, because we're so used to it, it seems to me that here in the opposition benches, some of my fellow parties are particularly offended. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It's raining.]] Now, let's see how the most important points of the Status Act come together, and how that really was, and how you think it is. I will, of course, speak of this without the need for completeness, and then, if all three of my pro-government fellow Members, together with all three of them or with the Secretary of State, would like to do so, I will be happy to take any reflection on this. So what has been said so much is the termination of the civil servant status. What did this look like before? The teachers were civil servants under the previous Public Education Act. In the proposed legislation, there is a public education employment relationship and the public employment relationship is terminated. So the most important point of the Vengeance Act, the new law on the status of teachers, is that teachers will no longer be civil servants in the future, thereby losing many of the rights involved. I must add that this is one of the most painful points of the teachers I know and interviewed, since they earn unfairly little, we know that very well. However, of course, how did you say Congressman Nacsa? that every year there is a kind of increase in the teacher's pay table, while we know that they are not, but they were saying that at least they are civil servants, and that the status of civil servant protects them from a lot of things. Now they've lost this umbrella, and they're terrified of it. We also talked about the extension of teaching until 15 July. What did this look like before? The school year, unless otherwise provided for in this Act, shall be the period of diligence from the first working day of September of each year to the last working day preceding 16 June of the following year. In the submitted bill, this remains the same, that the school year may be extended up to 15 July. According to the Democratic Trade Union of Teachers, the possibility of extending the teaching year is yet another means of preventing a noticeable strike. Many people are criticizing this point because it is not acceptable that time can be taken from summer vacations. The unforeseen and irrefutable reason described in the law is difficult to interpret, but this is likely to be the replacement of the hours that have passed due to the cessation of work. But you will tell me, fellow Members, if that is not the case. The annual work plan: earlier the school year, including the school year, has been established in the Minister for Public Education regulation. The school prepared an annual work plan, which included working days without freely defined teaching, which is also clear. How's that in the bill filed? In the same way, the annual work plan will be approved by the maintainer and only the opinion of the board will be sought. However, this provision has already taken away rights from teachers, so many of the representatives of the profession criticize all of this, and I must add, rightly, because they have acquired a right to admit it, it is not appropriate to take it away, honourable Members, honourable government. The following is: the pedagogical programme should be approved by the maintainer. What's this look like? The pedagogical program was adopted by the board and approved by the head of the institution so far. In order to implement the provisions of the pedagogical programme from which the maintenance has been subject to an additional obligation, the maintenance agreement has so far been in order. What does this look like in the bill? The educational programme shall be prepared by the Director with the involvement of the board and approved by the maintainer. Well, trade unions and civil society organisations, among other things, protested against the status law because it would limit institutional autonomy, as it gives more rights to the maintainer and less to the faculty and even to the director. Here there have been so many changes in wording compared to the draft, I must add that the pedagogical programme must be prepared by the director not only with his opinion, but also at the end of the day by the maintainer. So this, in this form, is not acceptable to teachers or to teachers' representatives. The following is: the text is also approved by the maintainer. What's this look like? The board decided on the adoption of the educational programme, the adoption of the text, the adoption of the annual work plan of the educational institution, the adoption of comprehensive analyses, evaluations, reports, the adoption of the training programme, the selection of the educator on behalf of the teaching body, the adoption of the rules, the establishment of a higher grade of students, the admission of pupils to grade examination and disciplinary matters of pupils. What does this look like in your bill? The Board's opinion shall be sought for the adoption of the pedagogical programme, the annual work plan of the educational institution, the text and the training programme. Well, this part, like the previous one, certainly contains some rather embarrassing elements, because teachers have already lost their rights by not deciding, for example, to accept the text, but the director. [[3.10]] We've talked about the number of kindergarten psychologists here several times. I would rather say this to the Secretary of State of Retvári, since Secretary Maruzsa has left. Several of my fellow Members spoke on this matter, and we reminded Mr Maruzsa, Secretary of State, that this matter is not entirely clear either, although he did not find any reference to it in the draft law. And, in fact, you were right, it does not appear in the draft law, but we tell you what it was until now: the mandatory number of kindergarten psychologists should be determined on the basis of the number of children in kindergarten, in such a way that one kindergarten psychologist employed 50 percent of the total working time per 500 children should be employed. As I said before, the bill submitted does not include the fate of kindergarten psychologists at all. However, we do not say this, the opposition, this is what the profession says, there are too few psychologists working in public education, and this, they say, I have to add, rightly, can contribute to the growing number of children having mental problems in recent years. Without this minimum number, however, the consequence in the future will be that fewer psychologists will be employed by the institutions. That is quite clear, and we know why: there is no money in education. Please don't give it to Ripper, or give it to István T., or give it to the public billions or hundreds of billions, but give it to education, give it to the SA, nota bene, the social sphere, but you don't. But let's look at the replacements. What did this look like all along? 55-65 percent of the full time was a substitute for teaching and other occupations. For the remainder of the fixed working hours, the teacher could perform other tasks related to education, student supervision and ad hoc replacement. In the event that the time of replacement of the higher management teacher with a management mandate had reached ten working days, the number of weekly classes and occupations of the substitute teacher had to be determined on the basis of the number of hours assigned to the higher senior position. What does that look like in your bill? The proposal refers to ad hoc or permanent substitution as additional teaching. In addition to working time with the education and training mentioned above, this additional teaching involves additional teaching and other occupations. However, it is proposed that a case-by-case replacement may be ordered several times in a year of education, but after a single two-week ad hoc replacement, replacement tasks for the same job can only be performed by permanent replacement. The teacher may make a case-by-case replacement in a school year for a full-time period of up to 60 hours and up to a pro rata interval in the case of part-time work. If the task cannot be carried out by other work organisation, the employer may, for any reason or up to 110 per cent of his/her limit of working time with the education and training required for his/her job, only unilaterally order additional training for a case-by-case replacement. This can be read in your proposal. With this amendment, however, teachers can be replaced more hours than before; this, too, is likely to be a kind of response to teachers' leaving, and partly to the strikes and civil disobedience actions of the last year. Remember? You were constantly amazed that the opposition, not only the opposition, but also the people of the street, called your bill a law of vengeance. Well, there's an explanation for that. By the way, last December, the Metropolitan Court ruled definitively that the teacher must comply with the provisions of the Labour Code on working time and the registration of working time in the case of a case-by-case replacement. This means, however, that the schedule of working time must be communicated at least one week in advance and may be modified up to four days before the work is ordered. If this rule is not complied with by the employer, extra work is considered to be extraordinary working hours, which must or should be paid. Well, here's the dog buried. Let's take a look at the transfer. We know very well that it wasn't like this before. You have now argued long and hard in this debate about how brilliant this is, and that you have actually listened to teachers' voices in this matter, and that you have been modified compared to the draft in the bill submitted. Here is the lesser amendment to this rule, as I said before, that while the draft still refers to strikes and civil disobedience with lawful and unlawful cessation of work, it is only read here that, if the operation of a public educational institution with a state reserve cannot be ensured for any reason, the maintenance of the public education institution, on the basis of the signal, designates a different place of task for the institution concerned. Well, this rule has obviously been suggested to you by strikes and civil disobedience. Obviously, it's a kind of revenge, and it's because of the consequences of strikes and civil disobedience that you have in your plan. The possibility to transfer teachers was one of the most critical points of the status law, as was the case with doctors. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] They may also oblige teachers to work at other schools within the district. We'll continue. Thank you very much.
u2023-06-16-312	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Varga. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2023-06-16-313	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Congressman Zoltán Varga began by saying that he lacked the ringing in the House, so he himself began to play the ring. I myself was surprised at the sharp criticism you gave to Ference Gyurcsány, the Gyurcsány governments, who said that you did not think it was good in terms of the pedagogical programme and the various regulations if the maintainer had the right to approve here; that was the regulation in your time, honourable Member, because this was amended by Parliament in 2012. This began in the '90s, and the whole Gyurcsány period was in this spirit, which you are criticizing here, which you have nicely, point by point, rule by rule, sentence by sentence, and said that this is not acceptable. Well, this was the practice of the Gyurcsány government, only then the state was not the maintainer, but the municipalities were the maintainers, but this is obviously secondary to the faculty. But the kind of division of responsibilities that this law contains between the school district and the faculty was the same between the faculty and the local government as a maintainer in the time of the Gyurcsány government. So we also understand that, honourable Member, it may have been worth it to be here at quarter to four, far from here in the morning, 3:20, we can say that in five minutes. So we also understand that Zoltán Varga criticized the regulation of the Gyurcsány period sharply, although he may not even know that. The 180-day rule. You're always looking everywhere, not at everything, at what rules make sense, just trying to spin them so that they can turn them against the government. We're starting from the student situation. The idea is that in order for a student to receive the knowledge he needs in life during his public education obligation, our entire public education system is constructed so that teachers pass on knowledge to students on 180 teaching days. We didn't think, I don't think, four or five years ago, that there would be a pandemic again, that a war and sanctions could lead to such an energy crisis in Europe, we thought that these things could no longer be imagined in a welfare society, the power of science and peace, so much that they couldn't be. But in recent years, we have seen that our basic sense of security has been shaken either in terms of science or in terms of peace or in terms of wars and energy price explosions, but regardless, students need to be given these 180 days, which is what the bill is. You say that the government will voluntarily spend a month on the school year, on the Internet, on posters, on stickers, everywhere. [[3.20]] But they don't think about what's in the child's best interests. It is in the best interest of the child that if the curriculum is scheduled and calibrated for 180 days, then this 180 teaching days will happen. This bill contains this. You're on strike, I don't know what kind of action you're talking about, but that's not what this is about at all. You have such a class warrior logic, I see that you can't quit, but this bill quits, and it comes out of the interests of students, so that their rights are not violated, because they have the right to receive this knowledge for 180 days in a school year. As far as the teachers of medicine are concerned, honourable Member, before 2006, a single institution has trained teachers of medicine, since September 2022 there have been training in 10 higher education institutions, since they are obviously included in medical pedagogical trainings, as well as conducative pedagogical courses, which are found at the Faculty of András Pető Pető University of Semmelweis. The number of students enrolled has also increased greatly. That was 937 ten years ago, 1727 in 2022. So you say, plus 790 admissions, that this number is falling back, honourable Member. The medical educator was at the beginning of our government somewhere around 5,700 people, now around 10,000 people, an increase of 4,300 people. That is what you say, honourable Member, that this is a reduction. Fortunately, the numbers disprove you. As regards the issue of redirection, honourable Member, you say that there is no such thing. Well, there's a 44-day chance right now, and that would be an extension of a school year. Why is it now? And why is it included in the new law? I think you can see, too, except that the class warrior comes from logic, that it's much easier when the teacher travels to the students than when the class or school travels to the teacher. This is undoubtedly difficult for the teacher: he must travel more, he must teach in another environment, another school, other colleagues, and obviously another class. But if it is in the interests of the students, honourable Member, then it is in the best interests of the students to marry them and not to go to the teacher. Obviously, a teacher cannot be expected to go from one end of the country to another. You were alarming me, this was your three months ago alarming me that, I don't know, someone from Győr would have to go to a small village in Szabolcs-Szatmár county to teach me, but this was never included in the bill. That was the rumor you made up about this bill. The proposal included that a teacher from one school to another could be asked to go to another school within the district, and then, of course, the cost of travel, the cost of going there, would be covered by the school district. During the negotiations, this geographical distance narrowed to further study districts, thus even smaller. In a big city where public transport was built, this does not make a big difference in transport, because it does not mean three bus stops, but it means, say, five or eight bus stops, so there can be no big difference. Where it is necessary to go from one settlement to another, this may mean some additional difficulty, but because they have narrowed down, I tell you, the geographical boundaries have become even smaller. And let's face it, though, it is in their interest not to travel, not to put them on the school bus in the morning and move them to another place, if it is possible for the teacher to come to them for a year, and then again in the original order, the original school can continue the education. What I'm asking you to do is to try to look at this law through children's glasses instead of these class-fighter glasses, why it's in the child's interest for the teacher to come to the child, and not for the child to go to the teacher. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai said things here that children don't get knowledge at school today and the like, and that's why parents are anxious to send their children to school. Please don't look down on teachers like that. They may not like us, they have full rights, obviously this is part of democracy, but they should not paint a picture that Hungarian children in Hungarian schools do not receive good and proper knowledge. However, in PISA measurements, the last two measurements, if you compare them, have improved the results of Hungarian students in all three measuring areas. This is not worth denying, because I think we can all be happy because your children and your grandchildren are involved in this improved measurement, or you said that, which is also the exact opposite of the reality, that the disadvantage at home in school is even more severe, and the school does not reduce it, but increases it. Give me some kind of measurement to support this, because PISA measurement, which cannot be accused of being a pro-government measurement, is not even a measurement made up for Central European countries, as this is obviously a measurement of the Scandinavian education system, well, according to that measurement, the disadvantage from home was above 25 percent in school. So the poor performance at school was caused by more than 25 percent of the disadvantages at home, and now it's gone below 20 percent, thank God, 19.1 percent. So even your favourite PISA measurement shows that thank God, and I don't know why you can't be happy about this, that in recent years the school's downsizing of the disadvantages from home and the function of the school we want to compensate for the disadvantages, so if someone brings less from home, the school, thank God, can now make up for it better. Then why shouldn't we be happy for this result? This includes a mandatory kindergarten from the age of three, so that, obviously, because of the lack of kindergarten, someone does not arrive at school with a higher disadvantage. Mr László Lukács spoke about the early-stage teacher's salary, and this is a key issue because they apply for teacher's training to the same extent, and even to a slightly greater extent than if I looked at the number of people admitted to public education twenty years ago. So reinforcements are guaranteed in the university section. There is also some sort of dropout, but you have given us a very good insight into the common task that the government has proposed to solve, you do not have, but this is also true from many other areas that we have learned from you what they do not want, but we will never know what they want, because they have no vision in this field, nor any other way, but we have an answer to this real social problem. After completing the university, some begin the teaching course, and then relatively many of them leave in five years, so they won't be teaching in five years. It's a visible trend. This problem is not only seen in Hungary, but also seen in Germany, Belgium, Spain and all other European countries. There's got to be an answer to that. This law answers this by, among other things, introducing a pay more focused on performance rather than on age-based pay, because it will help one of the most precisely young people, the career beginners, not their age to determine their wages, and not to wait for the years to pass, that in ten years, in 20 years, they will have a higher salary than in the current system, but they will be able to earn more on a performance basis, so they can earn more on young people. The start-up teachers are one of the main winners of this new bill, of course all teachers, since there is a much better environment for everyone, but the start-ups are even better, and this is obviously good for the children, because in the longer term there will also be a teacher's follow-up in schools, and few turn their backs on the teacher's career. This is one of our solutions to this situation. [[Dr. Zoltán Komáromi: What is the coverage of this? Where's the cover for this?]] You do not have a proposal for a solution to this situation, so if you really think it is necessary to combat early school leaving, to increase early pay, you should support this bill, honourable Member. But Congressman Ferenc Varga also said that, although he is not here, he began by saying that we all had our favorite teachers. It's not just a personal matter that someone was sympathetic for some reason, but that many of us had teachers who were decisive because they cared more about us, because they put more into their classes, got us better, got us interested. Obviously, standing here and choosing a legal career is part of this because my elementary school history teacher and my high school history teacher really got my attention, and it took me hours to remember, let's say, the events of our first high school history class, because you really had it as a motivation, and you obviously have a lot of other teachers in your life. This bill is about exactly what Congressman Ferenc Varga said about how good teachers are, and everyone had a favourite teacher, and he would like to appreciate her better, not only in saying that at the 10-20-25-30-year graduation meeting everyone will say when they meet their teachers, whom they can still meet, because they are still alive, how good it was, teacher, how good it was, but also in the wage. [[3.30]] So Congressman Ferenc Varga can support this bill with great peace of mind because of the problem that he raised and that he did not offer a solution, this bill offers a precise solution to that by ensuring that wages are proportionate to performance. [[Dr. Zoltán Komáromi: From what?]] that the teachers and parents are more satisfied with them, and that the director can obviously see and measure this, the head of the working community and the director can give him a higher wage. That would be our goal. This new bill changes that. You say that back to the old, the good that used to be, the future is the past for you. Everything that is modern, new, innovative in this bill is rejected and said to be as it was before 2010. That's all your visions. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] The things before 2010 would be brought back and weeped back, and they do not support any innovation in this bill, although the most important innovation in this is that you are most opposed to performance-based pay. As you said, when we asked the teachers to agree, a lot of people responded, tens of thousands, 74 percent said they would agree with a performance-based wage. You have always criticized portfolio-making and external ratings, and this new benchmarking system is replacing this external rating to a very large extent, precisely so that anyone who deals more with children will earn more. That's what determines it. When you say no, no, no, back to the 114 categories of public service wage structure, and we say that if you do more with the child, make more money, you can see that we want to improve it, and then you can keep the good teacher better, because you can pay him more wages, who are recognized by students, parents, colleagues, faculty, they can finally earn more. This is the main purpose of this law, and I think that all good people could support it and, moreover, how schools will be better, that is exactly what they can answer. You couldn't give me any answers about how schools would get better. What always comes up is the issue of wage increases, and I do not understand why you are opposed to using EU funds to raise wages. If a country has the potential, in any country, to use its own resources and EU funds, then why do you say that it should not be used by the EU? I don't understand. And I don't think any Hungarian man understands that. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] no one is to prevent these funds from arriving from Brussels as soon as possible and from being on the accounts of the Hungarian teacher. There could be a national consensus on this, it could be one of those issues. But there's a lot of other things that can't, maybe migration doesn't, war doesn't. But to make more money for teachers, we all acknowledge them, I don't understand why you can't come up with a national consensus on this. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-06-16-314	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári. We're gonna have two-minute comments. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, MSZP.
u2023-06-16-315	Thank you very much. I am extremely disappointed, Mr. Secretary, that you have not answered my question. Budget line, rise in real terms, 4 percent. Where the hell is he? I still hope I get a chance to get an answer. Well, I was just looking at the pizza... [[Sic!]] or PISA survey... [[Defiance and interrogation in the pro-government benches.]] Well, it's 3:30. Well, good morning, Hungary. [[Defiance. Szabó Timea: It was only because we laughed at it before! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Well, let's have so many sense of humors at 3:30 in the morning, dear. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: What pizza?]] Great. I'm glad you managed to get the gadget out of your ear. [[Defiance.]] Okay, okay. So it's the effect of the Covid period. The reading of Hungarian children has deteriorated... I'll wait for you, Mr. Secretary, as long as you can listen to me.
u2023-06-16-316	Congresswoman, proceed.
u2023-06-16-317	But if he interferes?
u2023-06-16-318	Go on, Congresswoman.
u2023-06-16-319	So, the impact of the Covid period: the reading performance of Hungarian children has deteriorated. Surveys on the understanding of fourth-grade students appeared: Hungarian students performed much worse than in 2016. No, Hungary has been involved in various international student performance measurements for years. This is perhaps the most well-known study, and it is obvious that 15-year-olds measure their literacy and mathematical competence, and examine the extent to which students leaving primary school have the basic skills to thrive in daily life, to further study or to work. This trend is extremely worrying, so I would like to ask what encouraging signals I will receive from the Secretary of State on this matter. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2023-06-16-320	Thank you, Congresswoman. For two minutes, Mr Zoltán Varga will have the floor, DK.
u2023-06-16-321	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The truth is, I was stunned to listen. So far, every time you've spoken, you've talked very quickly and with a lot of information, with a lot of air at times, it's not a problem, it's not even a criticism, it's the first time I've felt that you, like a lot of people on that side of the horseshoe, have trouble understanding words. I know that it's either a) or it's not coffee, b) 3 hours 20 is barely over, or I don't even know how you put it, and that's when the gears that drive the machine in there don't come together, so I'd like to clarify a few things. With regard to Gyurcsányás, Minister of State, you forget that the period you're talking about was a democracy when the municipalities had it. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] the right to self-determination, unlike this new leg-smelling dictatorship [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] where municipalities do not exist in practice. Even the Fidesz mayor of Debrecen could talk about this for a long time, or even Lajos Kósa, who does not like to come to such debates. School psychologists are included, Mr. Secretary, school psychologists are included in the bill. So I'm not the one saying it. That's what the bill says. You're talking about educators. These two aren't the same genre. So I'm glad to hear how many teachers are being trained right now, but let's just say it has nothing to do with our conversation right now. I don't know how you got involved in this, but that didn't work. Number three, I was desperate to hear that you're here to protect the students. You've protected the families. Now it means that all the oligarchs are in the hands of all the casinos: they swallow billions of them. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time. Nacsa Lőrinc: It's over! Time!]] They protected pensions: 3000 billion of the private pension fund disappeared. He was protected. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Time! It's over!]] What we see very well is the country: and where are we now? Thank you very much, we will continue.
u2023-06-16-322	Thank you, Congressman Zoltán Varga. István Hollik has the floor for two minutes.
u2023-06-16-323	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to respond to Congressman Zoltán Varga. In his first speech, he made a confession, because we told him that you seem to be not interested in what's in the bill, not about what's in the debate. Thank you for confirming that, yes, you do not really want to argue about this law, and indeed you have said that in the last 13 years, you have not wanted or argued about the laws that are in front of this House. Although, unfortunately, I have to say that in your second speech, when you were trying to mention specifics, it was full of material error, so I suggest you return to the splattering of lies, it suits you better, otherwise even more amusing, at least we're more entertaining than when you talk nonsense. You said a lot about private schools, that's what you accused us of, and that children go to foreign private schools. Did you talk to your boss? After leaving American private school, Ferenc Gyurcsány's son enrolled in an Italian elite university. [[Nacsa Lárinc: Oops! Million-dollar tuition! Oops!]] Doesn't that bother you with your clarity, honourable Member? [[Moraj from the opposition parties. Nacsa Lárinc: Oops!]] And now we return quickly to the remaining 20 seconds of your material flaws. You said that the most painful thing for some educators is that their civil servant status will be terminated and that they will be transferred to a public education employment relationship. But, Congressman, tell me what right you have to lose because you haven't said a word about this. Please tell me the difference between the two relationships and the right to lose a teacher who will be transferred to this new relationship. Thank you very much.
u2023-06-16-324	Thank you, Congressman István Hollik. Dear Parliament, The speakers taking place in the next 15 minutes' time frame are Rebecca Szabó, Ágnes Kunhalmi and Judit Ráczné Földi. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Rebecca Szabó, Dialogue. [[3.40]]
u2023-06-16-325	[[Laughing:]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I've been waiting a while to speak, but this is an excellent time. Mr Rétvári's speech woke me up a bit, because the truth is, I was quite surprised to hear you say that we are not happy with your proposals for a solution, and that we are never suggesting anything. [[He laughs all the time.]]
u2023-06-16-326	Good morning.
u2023-06-16-327	That's very funny in itself, Mr. Secretary. There's got to be a way to stop laughing... It is about the fact that we have had a lot of proposals and not only in relation to education, but we have had a lot of proposals at all. In the last year, since this cycle, we have put in place virtually dozens of proposals for solutions to all kinds of problems, but you have never put them on the agenda, and you know it very well, Mr Secretary of State. So, I just wanted to say that it's a little funny to say that we don't have solutions. On the other hand, you're on the government. This is another interesting thing when ministers, undersecretaries of state, cast it on opposition representatives, especially, say, a small party, in the case of a small faction, why we do not draw up a proposal for a solution that I do not know. Well, you have a ministry, don't you? [[Dr. Zoltán Komáromi: No! There's no Ministry of Education. Dr. Gurmai Zita: The president's ringing the bell.]] The Ministry of Education is not, by the way, quite catastrophic, but you have at least some of your colleagues, the so-called state administration, who are paid to work on these proposals and then stop asking us to account for them. Third of all, I'm sorry about the so-called solution proposal you're talking about, and what you're saying is that this Vengeance Act would be the solution, which is not at all, but also the problem that you think is a solution that we don't think you're causing. So, this is one of those interesting things that you're saying that you're going to find a solution to something that you're responsible for, and we're going to be happy about it. The expenditure on education was 4.6 per cent in 2010 and 4.3 per cent in 2011 and 3.8 per cent in 2020 respectively. So, over the past 13 years, you have been constantly spending less and less on education in proportion to GDP. Then why are you surprised that there's a set of problems here? And then you say, as if you had nothing to do with it, that, well, here's where you come up with the solution. On the one hand, unfortunately, we don't think it's a solution, and the students and the teachers think it's you who's causing the problem. And then I'll get to this whole transfer. Here, my fellow Member, Ferenc Varga, was concerned, and the Secretary of State, Rétvári, responded that we were not pleased that this would be good for the students, that they would not have to be transferred. We're happy about that, though, in the original proposal, I think it was part of it, and then, fortunately, they realized that it doesn't sound so good, but, uh, why do you have to transfer teachers? Well, because they don't, because the posts are empty. Because you've been running a bad education policy for 13 years, the teachers are leaving the field. Well, that's what we're talking about. But pretending in his speech is like it's raining, we have to buy an umbrella. If there are no teachers, they must be transferred. But it's not that it's raining, it's that because of you, there are no teachers. And we cannot separate the problem from you, who are now trying to make us believe with the public opinion that you are delivering only the solution. It's such a big fantasy, Mr. Secretary of State. But I think you should know that. The problem with the transfer is, among other things, not only that the teachers... although he said that, of course, a larger city may only have to go to the neighbouring district, perhaps, although many teachers do not drive cars, and for example, I know districts in Budapest where it is not so easy, let's say, to get to public transport in a short time. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Christmas Gregory problem! The president's ringing the bell.]] No. No, it's a transport network, it's usually easy to travel in the city in the direction of radiation, that's how it is in other cities, and community transport is slower if it's moving in a cross direction and not towards the center. That's what I'm talking about. It's a gift. So what I'm saying is it's not that easy to drive even in another district, or it's not that fast. So even that could be a problem for a teacher. But the problem is, what about the students? So I don't know, students whose teachers are being transferred from one place to another, say, if they're juniors, for example, I don't know if that's what this is about, it's pretty traumatic for them to disappear from such a teacher, uncle, and suddenly someone else is going to teach them that subject. So, quite simply, you can easily destroy the safe environment that children need by starting to conduct teachers in a mess, especially in the case of students of younger age. So even though you're trying to sell us what a great solution this is for students, it's not a good solution at all. The other thing I wanted to say about the bill is that there is the whole interest organisation, the representation of the workers, which we find to be seriously impaired in this new bill. On the one hand, they will be able to negotiate with trade unions if they are at least 10 percent of the workers. It could still be said to be good, to have a limit, but this is a serious problem, because, in addition, public service and service councils will cease to exist, and we see in the bill that nothing will be created instead. And that's an explicit problem, so technically, they're destroying employees' interests. Now I'm thinking of another word, but I'd rather not say that. So if you can disprove that, please, disprove it, but I see that there is no evidence of this, so there will be no employee representation, there will be no civil servant council, plus they will weaken the rights of the trade unions, which has not been as steely as ever. I think that this is also a very serious problem in this system. Which is definitely a problem. I started by saying that you have, unfortunately, done a number of things 13 years ago that make the situation of Hungarian education worse, in particular, that you started in the first cycle of governance in 2012, by lowering the age limit for compulsory education to 16 years. I mention this, and once again Mr Secretary of State comes with his solutions, because the problem with, among other things, this vengeance law is that what is the real problem is not responding to what is the root of it, which is a systemic problem. And the truth is, lowering the age limit for compulsory education has, in my opinion, created a systemic problem. These are the things we should be dealing with, and this is what we should be looking at. It's quite interesting that in the time that this happened, and then later in 2012, Zoltán Pokorni, your former Minister of Education, said that this was a mistake and a damaging step, and he also said that these children who fell out of public education at the age of 16 would become public workers. At the time, according to public employment statistics available on the Ministry of Interior website, while in January 2013 around 6700 of young people aged 16-25 worked as public workers, 38 thousand at the end of the year. So in one year, such a change occurred in this age group because, in practice, these children fell out of education in less-favoured regions and went to work in public work. And that's obviously not the career you'd want for a 16-year-old, because if you start as a community worker then it's going to be very difficult for him to get back to the normal labour market, so to speak. By the way, it's a fact that you're the ones who made the move and tried to get these kids out of the community service program somehow, but basically, they should have learned. And a lot of interviews prove that young people who left school at the time regret this in hindsight, because at the age of 16, they still do not have clear decision-making skills. You don't think there's a reason someone's gonna be an adult when they're 18. I think that counts, too. And by the way, it is interesting that there was a Századvég study in December 2016, which also suggested that there was an EMMI at the time, and that Ministry suggested that the Századvég be supported to bring the school obligation back to 18 years of age. Agnes Kunhalmi approves [[Bence Rétvári: Then that's right.]] And I think that this is not a coincidence, because, by the way, opposition parties have actually agreed on this and agree that this should be lifted, as I know, because this has a number of negative social impacts that are particularly harmful. [[3.50]] In this connection, I would also like to say that we actually believe that you have reduced the period of schooling due to the short-term interest of certain groups of employers. In vocational training, the number of hours of public knowledge in the sector's foundations and techniques decreased, and then this had to be restored later. Time to develop basic competences and skills has been significantly shortened. Thus, it could be long-term that the number of subjects of public knowledge has also decreased in vocational training. So, overall, I have to think that, in fact, the reduction of the age limit for compulsory education is part of the leaming of the whole education. And that, unfortunately, reflects your attitude. And my fellow Member has already mentioned that, according to the results of the PISA measurements, a very strong deterioration in performance occurred in Hungary for a very long time until 2018. Now I'm reading that this deterioration has stopped somewhat, but it hasn't started backwards. So I think that this certainly shows a sad result about where your two-thirds governance of education policy has taken the country in the last 13 years: there are not enough teachers, the school buildings in ruins, as for example, Szabó Timea said that the school ceiling in her district is breaking down, and the children's abilities are not developing sufficiently, and the differences are increasing territorially even in the country, so there is absolutely no equal opportunity for children coming to school. And when there are so many crises in education, you will submit this package, this law of vengeance, which will give no answer to any of these, in some places try to untie me as a symptomatic treatment, and, by the way, repressive, trying to create a threatening atmosphere for teachers to at least not strike, to open their mouths, but to keep quiet, and to deal with this very feeble salary, and in this bad mood of education system that you have created here. I hope it made my argument with you more clear, Mr. Secretary. And that is obviously why this bill cannot be supported, and that is why it has already been said in several speeches that it is not too late, that they could withdraw it and perhaps try to submit a much better one. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-06-16-328	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Rebecca Szabó. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2023-06-16-329	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, The ten-year debate is the age limit for compulsory education, which has been warmed up by the congresswoman. Let's get a little clearer than what you're saying, like this musty, scary atmosphere and the rest of it, before 2010, when it was democracy, how good it was. How is this in other countries of Europe? You have painted that the government here consciously wants to make young Hungarians dumb, and therefore the age limit for compulsory education in Hungary is 16 years. How is this in Europe? 18 years Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany. 17 years of Lithuania, Macedonia, Moldova, Russia. 16 years Together with Hungary, England, Bulgaria, Denmark, Estonia, Finland Finland, honourable Member, France, Iceland, Poland, Latvia, Malta, Norway, Italy, Romania, Scotland, Spain, Sweden and Slovakia. It is therefore regulated in these countries in the same way as Hungary. Finland is sometimes considered an example, here the Finnish education system gives up students on purpose. Imagine at the age of 15, Congresswoman, there is also Austria. Please go to Vienna and inform the Vienna colleagues that what they are doing to the Austrian children is a terrible thing. On the one hand, they say that they are going to Austria, because the conditions there are good for Hungarian children, and on the other hand, Austria has a lower school age. Bosnia and Herzegovina, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Greece, Ireland, Luxembourg, Montenegro, Portugal, Switzerland, Serbia, Slovenia. Here, the age of compulsory education is lower than the Hungarian age. In fact, it is even lower, 14 years old: Croatia, Kosovo, Turkey. So, honourable Member, you say that this was a terrible, misguided step on the part of the government, while in most European countries the age limit is 16 years old. In fact, many more countries have 15 years than 17 and 18 combined. So neither will you stand up for what you said. Public employment is still under attack by you, and for many [[Intercoms from the opposition: We do not attack!]] Public employment is the opportunity to make a living. That is why we have extended the time limit here, but there can still be many people in public employment for later, because those who cannot find market jobs in recent years, thanks to God, have been a world in the last five or seven years where a lot of people have been able to find market jobs, but who can't, this has also been helpful to those who can't. It's a dropout. You are typically thinking of a left-wing solution to make a one-line amendment and solve social problems. This has been a problem in Hungarian history for a hundred years. How does this proposal provide a solution to this? You cannot solve this either, but this bill provides a solution to this. If you look at these larger surveys, which show the performance of Hungarian children, it shows that the top tenth of Hungarian children are in Singapore, so they are really at the level of the world's leading countries. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] I would add that nine of the ten best education systems in the world are non-European, one European, the tenth and the first nine are non-European, only if we look at international competition and international patterns. So it's not just these patterns that are around us that are worth looking at, but those that are far away are more effective. So the top part of the Hungarian students is on the best level in Singapore, the majority of them bring European averages far away, and there is a lower part, a lower part, say, 20 percent, who do not really deliver good performance. I'd be happy to answer Congresswoman's back. Good-bye, but I'll tell you. [[Rebecca Szabó is leaving the Chamber.]] So they're not good, but they're the ones who should be helping. So the Hungarian measurements, in competence measurement, in TIMSS measurement, in PISA measurement, in anything else, if you look at it, does not mean that all Hungarian students perform the same way, but there is a scissor in this. This is obviously bigger than Hungarian scissors in immigrant countries, because there is even greater difference in lower decylis and lower tithes compared to those who have been there for generations. So there the school not only deals with educational functions, but also at the schoolyard, we read reports, 32 nationalities are running around, and an interpreter has to be called to the parent's office so that the teacher and parents can talk to each other. So there are even greater differences within the school. But there is also a difference, a noticeable, hurtful degree of difference. Therefore, the new bill introduces that in areas where the number of children underprivileged is higher, teachers will receive a 20 percent surplus, because it is indeed an additional task to deal with children there. And if I look at the nation's medium- to long-term future and see that the results of our education system improve in any way, and thus improve the future of our country, because obviously, if the students don't get the knowledge, then our country won't be able to succeed in the future either, then they will have to provide the greatest help. So here's a proposal for a solution. You say it's a one-line amendment, and it's all done. No, these educators need a very sacrificing day-to-day job. And in general, the geographical location of the disadvantaged has often been concentrated, and if we help here, not only with targeted programs, but also with certain start-ups, children's homes and schools, which we have expanded to a very large extent in recent years, we have made its funding stable, we have given it state normative to be predictable and help out locally in disadvantaged areas, but it is also a way for teachers to earn more in these areas, and it is really helping to improve the quality of Hungarian education so that we can bring lower standards closer to the average level. [[4.00]] The proportion of trade unions. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, the Member who just passed away, It's not the government's fault that the biggest pedagogical union had 23,000 members a few years ago, and now 9,000. That's for them to discuss in-house how it is. Or that the loudest trade union represents 1.3 percent of the Hungarian teachers, who are constantly present in the media 1.3 percent! They're there, like the MSZP is now in public support, about 1.3 percent. One of the leaders of this union may have come to the Ministry of Home Affairs as an expert on the MSZP. So it's not our fault that the masses of teachers turned their backs on the unions. There used to be a lot of people; perhaps they live in people's thinking when they watch the news as trade unions represent the majority of teachers. Well, not by a long shot. And the trend is not increasing, because anyone who was over 10 percent ten years ago is now somewhere around 5.5 percent, since most of their membership has been lost. Perhaps it would be better for them, too, not to organise political meetings with left-wing politicians, but to do representative work; which is good, to support what can be improved, to help them to improve; with which they do not agree, they obviously say that they do not agree with it. But this kind of politicisation, which has become characteristic of trade unions, seems to have been a lot for members, and the members have voted with their membership books: they have given it back, turned their backs on trade unions, and the majority has left the union bond. Budget figures, GDP numbers. Everyone agrees that the more worthwhile it is. In 2010, we took over the budget by raising HUF 1010 billion, now, in the draft budget discussed this week, HUF 2603 billion for the same purpose by 2024. [[Dr. Tamás Harangozó: And in proportion to GDP?]] So it's a big growth. Thank God, GDP has also increased in recent years. Indeed, honourable Member, left-wing governments can brag about GDP rates, but sometimes this is good for them because GDP has fallen. Well, we don't want to improve the GDP-to-GDP ratio while reducing GDP! [[László Varju: You are nowhere without EU funds!]] When you have not only frozen economic growth, but have damaged the performance of the economy, the numbers may have been good at times even after taking off the 13th month's salary and with the dismissal of 15,000 teachers. But we also want this to grow, of course. Still, let's look at how wages have evolved over the past few years. After all, you are demanding more wages, and we want more wages, and teachers are entitled to higher wages. Now, who now makes 391,000 forints as a career starter made 129 thousand forints in your time! 129 grand! [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Don't compare...]] He's been working for 20 years and he's a teacher. Grade 3 and now he's bringing home 442,000 forints, he's in your time, and he's taking home 172 thousand forints in proportion to his GDP and everything! Not 442 gross 172! [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: But it's been 12 years!]] And we really want it to grow in terms of GDP and numbers. There is a very simple way to do this, and from 1 January onwards, education spending on GDP could be significantly higher. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: If you wouldn't blackmail me...]] If you would finally give up your policy to prevent us from doing a teacher's wage increase from EU funds in Brussels. We added the budget part, we had ahead of it 10 percent, but if anyone, Klára Dobrev, Csaba Molnár, Csaba Molnár, Katalin Cseh, Anna Donáth, István Ujhelyi, or anyone else of the left-wing representatives would stand up at a European Parliament meeting in Brussels and tell Hungary to pay the funds for the teacher's wage increase, because the next day they will land at the Hungarian teachers' office, and the next day they will be charged to teachers, it would be a great courage in this situation that you have done, but it would be an advantage for everyone. Let this be a national consensus. How else could I, of course, say a lot of other things in which a national consensus could be achieved, but why not? Why can't the Left agree with those governing parties, and also in Brussels say not what they are now, new conditions, and that they will refer to this as soon as possible, and that we are working to avoid EU money in Hungary, but to work to at least increase the wages of teachers. You have relatively little responsibility here in Parliament because you have little involvement. You already have a greater responsibility in the European Parliament because you have more influence there, because there the left has a more dominant role than here in the Hungarian Parliament. Let us use it together to increase the salary of teachers; it is not used to push the teacher's wage increase as far as possible, because it is used to punish teachers, the government, because they are not as colorful as you are! Thank you very much. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: More! More! More!]]
u2023-06-16-330	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Welcome, fellow Members. Further speeches will follow. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Vajda. I would like to inform my fellow Members that the Members who have not yet spoken are coming first, which is why now Mr Zoltán Vajda, then Mr László Varju, and then the Members who have already spoken will follow. You have the floor.
u2023-06-16-331	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Situation report: It's after 4:00, and there are 135 brave puppets supposedly here among the Fidesz, three of the brave puppets in the Chamber, and one courageous secretary of state. I think it's very important... [[Intercoms.]] What?
u2023-06-16-332	Congressman, it's not a piece! People don't even say "piece" at dawn! [[Zoltán Vajda: Mr President, you are right, chief!]] Three people, please.
u2023-06-16-333	Mr President, good morning, you're right, I made a mistake: main. Then is that a brave puppet of 135, Mr. President? There are three brave puppets sitting in the Chamber, and a chief courageous secretary of state is sitting in the Chamber. [[Bence Rétvári: Do you like me, do you like me?]] That's good, I hope, Mr. President. Thank you so much for your help in this. Professionally, much has been said here in the debate. I think that you, who are supposed to govern for the benefit of the people, are consciously ruling against the interests of the people, and I am sure that you will help your clarity, which, by the way, if you have acquired it, you should thank your teachers for hearing stories from teachers, personal stories from teachers who have given up in public education because of this law of vengeance. I think it's very important that you hear personal stories about falling education, so I'm going to use a crucial part of my time frame to tell you personal stories from teachers who quit. Zsuzsa Bárdosi will be the first one whose story I will tell you, I will tell you his words here in this House. Zsuzsa Bárdosi wrote: "Today I have signed that after ten years we will, by mutual agreement, terminate my teacher-work relationship with my school. I applied for it after it was found that next year 14 people/groups could no longer teach English in group break-ups. Our groups were like this, except for one. So I don't have enough English lessons for me, not even half a job. It was supposed to be different classes and study rooms. However, in the shadow of the Status Act, I thought that I would no longer conclude this compromise. I got up, they got it. I would add that the school's management has supported almost all my fads over the past ten years in a Happy school program, we were a pilot school in a strong-minded pedagogical program, we could do Erasmus Plus programs with English children, we could act correctly, and we will part by loving each other, because human relationships will remain human relations even if the world is wild around us. Yesterday and today, two teachers left our school. I am aware that no one is irreplaceable, and I can even imagine that the intention of covering up the teacher's shortage lies behind such lineage. I mean, if you're in one place, you're gonna go to another school where there's zero teachers; there's nothing to see here, so please, we're gonna fill the holes, and, uh, everything's gonna be okay. But what if that doesn't happen? If the dismissed, stand-up teaching force does not go back to the great Hungarian public education, but earns a living elsewhere? Did the poet think of that? I've seen a lot of teary eyes today, including a colleague's, but mostly children's. I couldn't hug them, console them, but of course I couldn't. I'm a little scared. It's been my life for ten years, and now it's got some weird karma-like power out of it. If I were willing to waste my energies on anger, I would curse from the heart all the bloated, idiotic, narrow-minded morons who put Hungarian public education, teachers in such a situation, and especially those who have to see so many tearful children's eyes for teachers who have either become unnecessary in quotes or just cannot tolerate this unblessed situation. I'm from the competition sector in public education, so I'm supposed to be going back there. I have good language skills, degrees, management experience, international project management experience, category B driver's license, a lot of completed training; I am aware of my strengths, weaknesses and areas to be developed. I can adapt, work on my team, work on my own, manage a lot of software, and trust my learning skills. I might even get a job. If I deny half of these, they can even hire me at Lidl for a half and twice as much as my teacher's salary, although they're probably already full of fired teachers. I'm lucky, I can get up, obviously a lot of people can't do it. I know and understand their reasons, and I don't want anyone to have the time that I've reached this decision. [[4.10]] I thank my colleagues and the school board for all the support and help that I have become who I am today. I love you, and I'm gonna miss you, just like I'm gonna miss the kids, all the bullshit, work, joy, success, pride and challenge of the last ten years. I'm sad, and I'm a little scared, but I'm on my way. Tomorrow I'll graduate with the eighth graders. But for God's sake, I beg you, have you thought about who's gonna teach me tomorrow? ! I'm sorry, I'm sorry, The next personal story I thought was important for me to tell you here in this House, in this House, in this House, in this House, is to see the personal stories that you have made with your consciously destructive policies. Here's a initial for you, K.I. initials. I quote K. I. My own story. I told my class today that I wouldn't be with them next year. Silent silence. I cried when I didn't want to. They've already resigned from their geography history teacher, English teachers, now I'm their homeroom teacher. I told him I couldn't make a living when I was 30, and that it was very difficult to make a decision humanly, but I'd have a better place elsewhere. They started crying, but they yelled at me from behind: I completely understand you. We talked honestly, they said they were afraid they'd drop out of school from September if so many quit. They also said that they were afraid that they would not be able to graduate successfully and that the important things they should learn would be learned alone. You see the situation, and I told them it was their job to change that. When they can vote, go and see what's best for them and their child. That's my story. It was written by the teacher who had just been monogrammed. T.K.T. I can give you initials, I wouldn't say his personal name, he's a resigned teacher who says good-bye after 13 years of multis, after we've paid off our bank loans, we had a small apartment, my husband worked for multis, we thought I'd leave the impersonal multis and live for my hobby. Pay is pocket money, but this profession was my dream when I was a little girl, and it was just another way to go. I also found the dream school, humane colleagues, democratic leadership; I threw myself into teaching with great energy. There was a challenge, we taught from beginner to senior, I became a homeroom teacher, and I thought I'd do everything I expected as a parent. I was energetic. At 43, I was one of the young men in the faculty. I used the KRÉTA loosely, and even made a guide for the parents and colleagues. This momentum took me all the way to March when the status law was published. We were wondering, we were amazed, we were horrified, we were on strike, that's all. I've worked some places before, but I'm definitely not gonna sign this. Then, in May, on June 1st, I asked to be separated by mutual agreement. Crying farewells, touching gifts from my students, writings from parents, that it's terrible, but they understand. Now I'm multitasking again, my salary is double. But I don't care, I didn't come here for the money, I didn't come here for the money. I didn't come here for the money. I can only teach with my head held high, because that's what I wanted to teach them. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Next thing you know, I'd like to read to you, H. Zs. writing. See what kind of world we live in, just asking for initials to say? As is known, the Ministry of Interior still does not address the nine-point claim, also called the minimum education, and has not put down the introduction of the so-called benchmarking system and the status law. I taught last in Bács-Kiskun County. I have already deposited my resignation with the head of the institution in March 2023, if there are no substantive changes, about five thousand other school and kindergarten workers in the country have done the same. I am aware that the new provisions have not yet been introduced, but how much better will it be for the next school year if they do so in the summer? Like one night, as we've seen in the cata case, for example. In addition, I sent letters to the school district center from October to pay for my extra hours, but they didn't even give me an answer. Since June 1, I have been programmed in a developer company in Budapest, partly in home office, and in the development of business software. I'm bound by secrecy, obviously I can't give you my starting salary, but I'm already doubling my salary loosely in my study period. So far, I've been on my so-called pedagogical career. That I'd ever come back to teach again? I'm not a visionary, but I'm not optimistic. It's particularly painful because I had to leave the best job I've ever had. I don't have any illusions; as soon as they introduce the pubic measures, the system will grind the rest of the system badly. The last one will turn off the lights. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm going to read to you Z.M.'s writing, who also said good-bye to education because of you, your conscious destruction. Z.M. writes: I started teaching after Gyes, that's when I could afford it, before that I didn't work in public education. It was hard to get started after all these years of my teacher's degree, but I was happy to teach you, I had a lot of work to do. In the meantime, I also changed schools, because in my first place, I felt that the values of school management were very different from what I thought would provide an effective teaching. I would have liked to have stayed in the new place for a long time, despite the fact that teachers were getting less and less respect for their work in the whole country, which, unfortunately, was increasingly reflected in the behavior of students. But when Kölcsey's teachers were fired in early October, I decided to give up my resignation if they didn't change that. Nothing's changed, so I filed for resignation at the end of November. That's because it was important for me to teach the semester during my termination period at the end of January, not to leave my admissions students alone. At the end of November, after the new kick-out wave, however, it was proved that quality education is not important for the leaders responsible for education in Hungary, no matter under what conditions and how prepared the children learn from teachers. Therefore, I decided not to continue the work as a protest in the context of civil disobedience until the fired teachers were taken back, which, of course, has not happened since then. In order to be taught again in public education, radical changes would be needed, which should start with a significant increase in teachers' wages, along with any significant changes in the working conditions, tasks and evaluation of teachers being introduced only with the agreement of professional organisations. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, And finally, as I'm nearing the end of my time frame, I'm going to read to you another piece of paper by M. who also explains why, because of you, because of your conscious policy against my beloved country, M. has become a disenfranchised educator. I'd like to start by telling you why I originally became a teacher. When I was 16, I knew that I wanted to deal with children, pass on knowledge, view of life, teach how to look after each other, animals, plants and our environment. And if there's only one child in 40 years, who might be able to change his mind and not be content to do eight generals, go to college, have a good job, earn a decent salary, it's all worth it. So I studied four years in college, and then I did a lot of self-serving with work, and I was very, very enthusiastic. In return, I received 98,000 forints as a career beginner. No, not in 92 in 2014. In return, I've got some muffin older colleagues who think nothing new is good, everything's as good as it is. In return, I received a management who stood up for the elderly; if, for example, I brought my class down to the garden to learn words, I was reprimanded the next day that the lesson was for the classroom. In addition, one of the colleagues spread untruths about me, to which half the arm assisted; this was revealed in my last weeks. In return, the person I worked with gossiped about me and my personal life with the parents. In return, I received a class, the vast majority of which required special treatment. In return, we had to stand up to parents that weren't necessary. [[4.20]] I indicated to the board that they kindly assured me that I was very good, that I had a very unprovoked attitude, so they're sure that I can handle it. Unfortunately, I can't pay at the store with a sense of professionalism. Unfortunately, my kids don't eat well with a sense of professionalism. M., who also left the teaching field because of you, will stop saying good-bye. In this circle, I wanted to share these with the House to see what they were doing to people. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition.]]
u2023-06-16-334	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Varju, DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-06-16-335	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. For a long time there has been a debate on what needs to be done in the field of education, and what would be a multitude of actions in the most important area that would lead to our children preparing for their lives in calm conditions. In calm conditions and with the potential to acquire most knowledge, they can at the end of school years be able to get to work, to work, to work, and to find the opportunities for which they will be prepared for a long time. In such circumstances and in order to improve these circumstances, there is a huge responsibility for those who decide on the resources that should help education. Therefore, if we look back on the last few years when the responsible Members of Parliament have decided how education is promoted and, for example, how the proportion of the money spent on education has actually been reduced rather than increased, I think that this should be faced by everyone who has supported this as a pro-government representative. I think that the proposals of the shadow government, which have been formulated over the past period, are in harmony with and in line with what rhymes with a teacher's oral opinion, or with his desperate cry, that this responsibility is indeed a responsibility that the pro-government representatives could not live with right now. That is why I think that, whether it be education, vocational training or those who represent them... because right here, Mr. Secretary of State, he was reprimanding the trade unions who, acting in the interests of teachers, are talking about what should be done, he is doing it very irresponsiblely. You have done nothing to help teachers in this work or this work. It is time for you to rethink all this, and after these words, I can confront you with the fact that when you talk about education, what you really do is put the workers in this area at a disadvantage. For this reason, from the point of view of the current budget, I also think that this is clearly visible, and that is why the shadow government has also tabled its amendments to this. Only because if they spent a thousand billion forints on something that, in itself, I think, could find a much better place, if, thinking responsibly, they could act for the sake of the children and educators mentioned, and for their sake, they could make this decision, then we would be much closer to the solution. [[Sic!]] The words of the Secretary of State when you are talking about, not just him, but for a long time, that you are talking about condemning the European Union, that it does not give you sufficient resources to pay the teachers' wages, then I think that, whether seriously or with a smile, as you are doing now, Mr Secretary of State, taking all this seriously, I think you know that this is not really the solution. After all, the possibilities of Hungarian teachers and the opportunities of the Hungarian school must be created within the framework of the Hungarian budget. That's the responsibility you need to take to all of this. Especially if you can afford to approve funds such as the University of Tokaj-Hegyalja, where you have been transferred over the past years... so everyone should think that when your account receives a HUF 75 billion grant, and all you had to do to do was try to start the formation of a university, which, by the way, you have not been able to complete until today. According to the latest information, it is 38 students who are doing their studies within the university, and if, in this way, you are not only condoning it, helping it, supporting it, I believe that you will not only have to account for why your political friend István Stumpf has resigned from the management of the foundation there, and in such a structure, how do you think that with this amount of support you can support a single university. While I could also do that alone for the tens of thousands of teachers whose careers would be very important, and the examples we have heard are that they are preparing to leave the field, because they are unable to make a living from the amount of salary you can guarantee from the Hungarian budget, then I think that there is something to rethink. This could have been rethinked at this time, when we were talking about the budget of 2024, because we have already had the general debate on this, but you are clearly unable to do so, and for some perverse reason you are explicitly abusing this situation, and teachers who are not only in Kossuth Square, but also in schools, but also in many places, publicly speaking to you, are able and willing to ignore it. I think that when we talk about this, the awareness that opposition representatives are telling you is a huge sin by ignoring all of this. Not only because Members' opinions are being ignored, but because tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people expect that a modern education is needed in Hungary, you will not do so. They're not doing anything for him, and it's proven that a number of laws have been amended here in which they're doing the exact opposite, and that's why you're going to be responsible here in the next period. I hope that when we talk about all this for so long, it will give you the opportunity to think about it and reconsider the demand that this law should be withdrawn as it is and that you take the step that requires what the teachers have said. That is why you need to rethink all of this, and that is why we need to provide the resources needed for the functioning and further development of Hungarian education. I therefore recommend this to you, and I expect you to take the demands of teachers, teachers and the country into account and to act accordingly. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the opposition.]]
u2023-06-16-336	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[4.30]]
u2023-06-16-337	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, We also welcome Congressman Varju here in the debate. He said things about which I thought I would definitely ask for a word, because, on the one hand, modern Hungarian education is very important to us, we very much believe, and we consider it very important. We're obviously spending a lot of time and energy on it, and I don't doubt that this question is important to you, but it's like you're stuck in your own government cycle, and modernity means antiquity to you. You just want to bring back everything before 2010, instead of creating a new, innovative and truly contemporary education system that builds on Hungarian traditions. But that was not the main reason why I asked you to speak, but that I absolutely refuse you to say that you speak on behalf of teachers, and that we have created something completely remote from this amendment of the law. Because we didn't start this by writing ideas on pages from dark ministry offices and desks, not with people who have never seen a school in their lives since they graduated from high school, but by asking teachers. You speak for the teachers, and obviously you contacted five, eight, you may have talked to a hundred teachers, or you have received the opinion of a hundred teachers, but we started over six months ago by sending out a first digital consultation questionnaire to all Hungarian teachers, then a second one, then a third one, and then all Hungarian parents. [[Gergely Harvesto: I didn't get it. Zoltán Vajda: To buy sovereign debt?]] And first he answered 25 thousand teachers, then he replied 33 thousand, then he replied 18 thousand, then he replied 130 thousand Hungarian parents. And it's not because we came up with it, it's because 74 percent of Hungarian teachers said that they agree to pay in proportion to performance. And when we asked them because that's the hardest question, I don't know why we haven't talked about it in the last few hours, how to measure performance... If we were in a meaningful debate, we would talk about this: how can we measure the performance of an educator? Because this is not an easy question, and we have launched a pilot project in this area, it has now started in a few dozen schools, and we will introduce it in the next academic year from the experience that the salary will be affected in the subsequent academic year, so in the third academic year it will only be the result of the benchmarking system. Because it's one of the biggest challenges here, you're puffing up all kinds of political lounges instead of talking about who thinks it's possible to measure well. And we asked the teachers. The results of the students? Any change in the students' results? Parents' opinion? These were the ones the teachers least supported. External rating? This has been given medium support, which is what we have now, this system of qualification, but it is apparently only at the lowest level of the podium, according to the educators' assessment. The second most supported was the head of the community and the first was the head of the school. When we put this in this law, we didn't put it in because we thought that we knew it, or somehow we thought it out or speculated that it could be, but what the Hungarian teachers said, we wrote in this law. And you stand up here and say that this is rejected by Hungarian teachers, and you demand the withdrawal of this law in the name of Hungarian teachers. Honourable Congressman, This law went in the direction that Hungarian teachers have set out for us, because they say they support it to be a performance-proportional wage, and the principal can mostly measure and evaluate their performance, not outsiders, not the result of students, not the opinion of parents. That's why they're included in this bill. So, please, when you criticize these, respect that there are not a few letter writers who are either teachers or not, but tens of thousands of teachers who have thought out what we have been told. We can rely on that. The opinion of these tens of thousands of educators, so I ask you to respect these tens of thousands of teachers so much that, if they have dealt with this, they have expressed an opinion in this, and therefore we have included their views in this text, so don't let them down that this is unprofessional, that teachers are opposed to this when we come to this in consultation with them. I would also like to draw your attention to what Parliamentary Secretary Maruzsa has repeatedly called to the attention of many people in the debate and outside the debate, when you are talking about the status of civil servant, that one third of Hungarian teachers are not civil servants at the moment. [[Gergely Harvesto: And then we take it away from the others, we'll figure it out.]] So let us not live in a world where all teachers are public servants in Hungary today. Because of course, those who are in school in the district are, but those who are in a private school, a church school, a school maintained by a minority government, who are in the rest of the school system, are not public employees. Now, this law gives everyone equal guarantees. It protects the various guarantees that are still in the hands of civil servants. [[Gergely Arató: Like private pension funds.]] And you provide this for everyone, but you play it lightly, and you don't take into account that one third of teachers are now not at all in this state of civil servant status. And over time, honourable Members, there is no stopping where you have once codified legislative proposals in relation to education, because the structure of your maintenance has changed, so we want the teachers to have predictability and equal security, we want transparency throughout the education system, we want everyone in a similar legal status, whether they teach in public, church or private schools, then this bill should be supported by you, because it actually extends these opportunities. Of course, you will not support this, of course, I know very well, but if, perhaps, a little bit of the goals that you are illuminating would really be important to you, you could support this bill with complete calmness, and I tell you, the alternative to this has not been offered by you. There are real problems in Hungary and throughout Europe. The issue of wages is the most pressing, which is why it is important what you said, Mr President, that we do something together to help him not only from a budget, but also from an EU source. If you look at our commitment published last July, you are also a politician dealing with budget and economic issues, so you understand these figures, the EU's foot is 800 billion forints for this wage increase and its budget foot is 5600 billion forints. But why do you say there's only 5,600 there and there's no 800 there? I can't understand that with common sense. The budget will, of course, take its share, 5600 billion forints. But why not add this 800 to the 5600 if this could lead to a higher wage increase for teachers? Why not take advantage of this opportunity, which has opened up since the outbreak, so that an increase in wages can be financed with budgetary resources from EU funds? No one can explain why you are against this, why you are submitting new conditions to this, so it would be nice to feel in one or two things that you are really willing to echo not only your own position 15 years ago, but would also look a little into the future, and would measure to Hungary in 2030 and 2050 what laws should now be adopted so that young people who will be able to get a truly useful, valuable knowledge later in school. Thank you very much.
u2023-06-16-338	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Ms Agnes Kunhalmi, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2023-06-16-339	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Bence Rétvári talks about modern education. Well, I don't think that word has anything to do with your performance after 2010. He's saying that we're... [[Bence Rétvári: Why?]] I'll tell you. Because he accuses us of saying that everything was perfect before 2010 and that we should go back there. That's not what we're saying. You know that. You think you're going back to 2010 and I'm saying you want to go back before 45. The whole political set-up, the Fundamental Law, everything, and the construction of the school system, by the way. Now, who wants to go back to where? The school system today meets the expectations of 60 to 70 years ago, and all the researchers you call modern researchers, who are now employed by you, certainly say so. Two: 800 billion EU, 5600 budget, Mr Rétvári, the Socialist Party demands immediately 6400 billion from the national budget for teachers! Here's how you write it in big letters. Three: I am not a Member of the European Parliament myself, but my party family is a long-standing member of the European Socialist community, and therefore I personally asked many MEPs of the European Socialist Parliament in S&D to give Hungary the money and not to punish the entire Hungarian nation because of our stupid government. So please don't tell me again... We asked for the money, and I'm telling you now that the money's coming, so don't get all messed up. By the way, I like to listen to you like this in the morning hours. You know why? Because he's like a professional fraud, and in politics, it's not illegal. Because you're a professional in political communication. [[4.40]] It's a terrific slider, based on half-truths. I have to say, he's a good competitor in this market. For example, I'll tell you one. He also expressed his views on redirectibility. What did you do with the whole redirection? He created a new interpretation framework, says the Secretary of State, why classes should go to the teacher, the teacher should go to the class. [[He's laughing. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] Why should anyone even travel? Shouldn't we be trying, Mr. Secretary, to have a sufficient amount of educators in every settlement, every school? Isn't that the point? By the way, he's admitting that there aren't enough teachers to actually solve it. So it's a confession that we don't have enough. 16 years. Now, that's one of my favorite topics, we've been given a lot of times that the obligation to teach was raised from 16 to 18 years under socialist governments. I'm not saying there was a huge debate about this in our party, but my party, the majority, decided then, because it's not a nun for a politician, anyway, to be 18 years, 20 years, 21 years, but it's a tool in the hands of the governments at the time, to help the school's ability to hold children in some way. In fact, as long as the school does not have the ability to keep the children and not to let them out of school prematurely without any degree, the obligation to teach is, after all, an obligation on the participants in education to have the child in school at least until he acquires a profession. It's in the common interest of society to have a job, isn't it, that's what you said? In many countries, the age limit for compulsory education is lower. You are right, these are facts, of course, but in those countries the school's ability to keep children is somewhat higher, not everywhere, but in most Western European countries it is higher. So there's such a function of schooling. Since then, unfortunately, I must say that a lot of people have gone to community service, Mrs Rebecca Szabó has made it clear here, by my side. Don't tell me we're against community service, by the way. Well, it was introduced by the socialists. But not to end up with a crowd of early school leavers, we didn't define it as an end goal, but we were thinking at all of a temporary state when we introduced it, not to give you a major employment component in the labour market. I don't deny that in lexical knowledge, when there's a type of measurement, on certain issues, our children perform extremely well. However, as soon as we take measurements that measure their ability to work together, the ability to communicate, the ability to solve problems, which is a natural part of life, even if we can't solve the problems facing us in the labour market, this is a problem. I think that we really should create a new balance between lexical knowledge and the development of skills, in line with the challenges of modern, modern education. There's one more thing I'd like to talk to you about. He says that the maintainer had the rights both before 2010 and after 2010. I heard that with half an ear in the stock shed, and I wasn't there at the time, but he was probably talking about there's no change here, what we're talking about here, you know, he was at a maintenance unit before 2010. But obviously that was a different system, and you know it. [[Bence Rétvári: No, it wasn't.]] That's exactly right. We're a little more locked up for 1 0 hours, and I'd be happy to do it, and I'm gonna democratize you back. [[Flavor, noise. István Hollik: That's gonna be really rough!]] Yeah, God, we'll talk until then, until then... [[Noise. Defiance. Intercoms.]] I think this requires a collective effort, so I'm gonna need some help. Before 2010... [[Zoltán Varga: Pull me out of this collective effort!]] No one can do this alone, and you know it, my dear friend. Before 2010, and this was well mentioned in several speeches by my fellow Member Zoltán Varga, before 2010, it was not an over-centralized, nationalised school system, but a municipal system, where autonomous municipalities were more or less, but autonomous schools and autonomous school communities, in a system of relations that, although there were subordination conditions, in most cases, their fate was decided in co-ordination, democratic frameworks and relations. A faculty had an impact on what was happening in the settlement and in the settlement was tied to the voters' vote about what was happening in the school. A citizen of Kiskunmajsa, a citizen of Jászszentlászló or a district, I could say to anyone when he voted for the mayor, not only did he vote to paint the school or the fence, but if that mayor promised to set up an IT or a language lab in that settlement and failed to do so, then that community had the opportunity to replace him. So a democratic voting right was linked to quality improvement, by the way. Today, a headmaster appointed from headquarters is politically performing, and they cry because they don't get enough money, they don't get enough opportunities, they're bleeding out financially from the school district. Mr Maruzsa said that we have established a stable system, it is true that we are saving. It's a little over-expensive. It doesn't exist, it doesn't exist, Mr. Secretary, so that a district manager can get more money than those who deal with children. There's no way there's a reward, 75 billion is not sure where it is, it's on Vodafone, it's for everything, but by the way, six students in one class get 5,000 forints, or seven students get 4,000 forints for books. It's real. If things are going so well, then let's do this. So let's not get ahead of ourselves. Of course, I know, that's your job. Once again, and this is my last sentence: this is the entire European Union resource. For God's sake! I do not understand how Fidesz voters accept this from a government that is so sensitive to its sovereignty. Let's be happy, I think, either you said it or Mr Maruzsa, I'm tired, I don't know which one of you told us to be happy about it. Of course we're happy, and it would be nice if that money came here. But it's the status law that makes this all impossible, and the blackmailing policy that you're fighting with the EU. That's why this money can't come here. By the way, if you say that, I'm entitled to ask you that next time you're going to have the National Basics written there. Or admit it, it's early in the morning, few people are watching us, I swear, I deny it, I just want to know - do you want a national education area to be a community area? Because it's a road to federalism, which your Prime Minister Viktor Orbán doesn't want, and he even protests it with his hands and feet. These are difficult questions in the morning hours. I'm not sure I'm gonna be able to wait for your answer, so I apologize for seeing you push a button. [[Zoltán Vajda: I'll sum it up! I'll write to you.]] Yeah, God, I'm gonna watch it, 'cause I like to listen to it a lot. Answer me with honor. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-06-16-340	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, For me, it is a great hope that Mr. Secretary of State has just pressed a button. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Now?]] And he wants to give you an extraordinary answer. Therefore, since I am going to give Mr State Secretary the opportunity to answer, I hope that you will also be heard by Mrs Congresswoman. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2023-06-16-341	Thank you very much. With such kind words, I couldn't not press a button to respond to a lot of things he said. I'll start with the end, the fight with the Union or the Union. Here are several countries, 27 countries with different interests, different pasts, different talents and we believe that we must always stand up for our interests. You call it a fight, a lot of things, and we sometimes call it a fight, because it's really worth taking on the conflict. The last time we talked about the seven-year budget and Hungary stood up for its interests until the last minute, the result could be measured in thousands of billions. So we do think it's worth doing, and there's nothing else to do. That is why we are here in this Parliament to stand up for the interests of the nation as well as for our allies, obviously in a forum that Hungarians disagree with, no one wants us to accept. A lot of people in this country wanted a lot of acceptance. If everyone had accepted this, there would be no parliament and they would speak a different language in this country. But I don't want to go too far in this. It's NAT's writing. Let us not forget that we did not consider acceptable what was the situation or state of public knowledge found in 2010 that the National Basic Study was outsourced by the State to an organisation that was not supported by George Soros. [[Gergely Harvesto: What?]] An NGO wrote the National Basic Training Plan [[Gergely Arató: What kind of national basic curriculum have civil society organisations written?]] And the publisher of our textbooks was partly a foreign-owned company. So a situation like this, that the state does not write the National Basics itself and the country does not have its own textbook publisher, but is privatized, and it has also been handed to foreign hands, we did not consider this acceptable. [[4.50]] The question of schoolkeeping was something that would also spread across the board. I don't think we'll be able to talk much about this this morning, but if you've already mentioned it, then let me respond. Who is the school maintainer, the municipality or the state? You said that obviously the election, the mayor, will influence you, and the rest. That's exactly what made us touch this. On the one hand, you know that the municipalities had a huge debt of around HUF 1200 billion, including because of education, because of the state normative that they received for education, but could not come out of it, so they took out loans, issued bonds and maintained schools. In the long term, this cannot be operated by the local government to operate the schools on credit. On the other hand, the equal opportunities you consider important, which we call creating a chance, are also difficult because there are obviously richer municipalities and poorer municipalities. The richer municipality was able to spend more on its school, and the poorer municipality was able to spend less. Besides, when a child was born in a settlement, and obviously, if it wasn't such a rich settlement, then in his everyday life, starting with baby care, he may have had a lot of disadvantages, but if the school is completely dependent on the municipality, then because he was born there, he also has more difficult options in school. When I even told my colleague from Gurmai that the difference between children in school was reduced according to the PISA survey, and the school was better able to use its ability to compensate for the disadvantage, so there is less difference in performance among students compared to what they bring from home, which is why, among other things, it can be achieved. You weren't there, you couldn't be there last December when we called 400 school principals. Protest, not protest, Budapest, rural, school, big school, art, general, many, many, 400 schools. There the rural school principals reported that they often had no salary from November, that the last three months had been paid at the beginning of the following year. [[Laszlo Varju: What? This is bullshit! Gergely Harvesto: That's not true!]] And until then, they've been living off the husband's salary or their savings, and having a school district system means safety, because they've always had a salary. We are talking about how much the teacher's wages should rise and how much they should not, because, thank God, we forgot that world, the circles and many other worlds before 2010, when these teachers reported that there was no salary for months, but that they had replaced it afterwards. Obviously, it is much simpler here when we are arguing about increasing wages from budgetary or budgetary and EU resources compared to that uncertainty. So it is not possible to say that everyone would welcome the return to it, because many would see uncertainty, uncertainty about the existence of the school, as was the case in 381 places of education in Hungary during that period, closing schools. It was a debt and it didn't help create a chance, with your word for equal opportunities, that we had such a maintenance structure. What you have said is that the mayor puts something in the electoral promises that this or what is happening in the school, it is also worth thinking about whether it is good or not, so that the mayor, in a semi-political small settlement, in a larger settlement, will have a better political promise to determine the school's pedagogical profile or development direction. If the mayor puts it in his program, it's gonna happen if he doesn't put it in, it's not gonna happen. There are three kinds of things, one of which he chooses to do politically. There is a danger in this, and obviously there is an incentive in it, because every four years the politician has to produce a product in the constituency, but there is also a danger that it will not be decided by the teachers, but by you in the policy. This has both advantages and disadvantages, but I do not believe that this can be described as an ideal model of 100%. Every school, every school should be a teacher. We obviously agree with that, which is why we would like to raise the salary, and in the case of the disadvantaged part, we would like to add another 20 percent to the salary, but this is contrary to the process under the left-wing governance that, not only was there no teacher, but the school was closed. We have reopened schools that closed before 2010, with the program of the Hungarian village. There are 34 settlements in my district, there are a lot of small settlements, and there we can keep schools in operation, renovate and attract them to go there, and the village CSOK helps them to build houses in small settlements, settle down there, and have replacements in schools. So I wasn't up to my ass and I put it nicely in the world before 2010. Then he said that we want to implement an education system in Hungary before 1945. There may be a core on the left who believes this, but if anyone looks at it for the past years, you can see that Secretary Maruzsa has already said that there have been more than 4500 developments out of 1000 billion forints in recent years, which is all modernisation in schools. Wi-Fi and broadband internet have been introduced in all schools, on a scale of tens of thousands of sites, measured on a scale of hundreds of thousands. [[Gergely Harvester: No teacher! Is that okay?]] the number of IT tools that have been removed, the digital boards really keep students more busy; you walk, I go to school, we see. We have introduced a sustainability week. 1,800 schools registered, 400,000 students. But we introduced a week of money in schools, a week of digital themes. There were 800 schools with 120,000 students and financial awareness with 215 thousand students. He goes up to the smart portal, the National Public Education Portal, finds a new state-of-the-art digital educational material with hundreds, thousands of syllables and tasks that teachers can now exploit. Today, in KRÉTA, artificial intelligence can teach children language because [[Gergely Harvesting: Because there is no teacher!]] There's a module to fill the tests, answer questions. Artificial intelligence senses that you answered right or wrong. [[Zoltán Varga: There you can get sovereign debt and 53 male rubber boots!]] It was a better atmosphere, I'll tell the newcomers, because we listened to each other at this debate stage, but we used to yell at each other for a longer time in the normal day meeting, the night was for some reason more patient, this owl was more hearing, I'm just telling the newcomers that the organizational culture could be taken over a little, so it's easier. [[Zoltán Varga: They don't know that yet!]]
u2023-06-16-342	Congressman!
u2023-06-16-343	So this is what the KRÉTA system is capable of, and besides, the KRÉTA system is digitized, reducing the entire administration so that parents and students are better informed. As I said, with artificial intelligence, you can see, based on the answers to the questions, that you have reached that level or you need to repeat it. If it is necessary to repeat it, it gives a level of tasks if it is able to move to a higher level, because it no longer makes mistakes in the test or gives a good answer to chat questions in a foreign language, it gives it more complicated questions. And obviously it's not only 45 minutes during the day, it's morning-south evening, tram, bus or home so you can learn a language with state-free software. So don't try to pin this stamp on us. If we weren't innovative, we wouldn't have won a fourth election here in Parliament by a two-thirds majority. We want this to be an innovative Hungarian education system. Without this, we cannot achieve the goal of truly having Hungary over its population influence here in Europe. That is why we are also trying to bring the most innovative manufacturing and manufacturing technologies to Hungary. According to BMW and my memories, Jaguar also has a research and development centre and many other R &amp; D centres are coming to Hungary. We see the future of this country in these too. I don't want to open this debate now, but that's why we started the foundational university structures to be innovative, to step out of the bond that the state system means, because we, a country that doesn't have a large source of energy, we don't have any special mineral resources, but we can break out with our knowledge, and the best of our knowledge is in universities and what's new from universities, we allowed universities to advance in a more free legal environment and with greater financial support, because they have huge stock packages to move forward. Obviously, the peak, the most modern technology of universities, will work if students who come to universities also have good skills. In this way, we think complexly. We don't want to go back in front of 45. We want to go in the direction of our ancestors, of whom the statues are in the dome hall, who were proud Hungarians, of course, and loved their country. [[Gergely Harvester: And the Habsburgs!]] But we're doing this in a modern way. And we really believe that the future, our breaking point, is in universities that are often criticized by you and usually only stolen, I don't know, referred to as dictatorship, carried to public-interest trust foundations, and that they will bring those agricultural innovations or innovations in Hungary, in addition to the much greater financial opportunities in the liberated legal environment. [[5.00]] Because a ten million-dollar country cannot be competitive in everything, but it will find those four or five places, and we believe that this is in education, in higher education, which will upset the whole country, and that could mean progress for all other sectors and for the whole community. So that's how we think about it. I'm sorry, I went a little beyond the new career law, but I wanted to show you that we have a very strong vision, we have a very strong ambition to make Hungary successful, and this is part of the law, because if competition brings out better results in higher education, and wages in public education will be the best, and it is in our best interest to appreciate who is above average, because it will also make our country above average. Thank you so much for listening and staying.
u2023-06-16-344	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We will now continue with the speeches. I give the floor to Mrs Judit Ráczné Földi, DK Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2023-06-16-345	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[László Varju: Two minutes left out!]]
u2023-06-16-346	Forgive me, Congresswoman, just to inform my fellow Members, according to the house rules, when a circle goes down, then the two-minute speeches will come. The group of speakers is now divided into parties. Even Mr Miklós Hajnal will speak in this round, after which the two-minute speeches will follow. So, my fellow Members, calm down, we may be at dawn, but we are going according to the house rules. Congresswoman, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2023-06-16-347	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The adoption of the Vengeance Act makes it impossible for more and more people to choose this profession and many teachers to rebel against it. In the course of my previous speech, I would like to present you with some opinions: We have asked the government for two things: working conditions that are worth working on and wages that we can earn. What do we get? A status law. That's enough! Now I need to put my own interests ahead. Eszter had the status law put the gate in, so this was his last school year. Gabor's been a caterer for a year, and now he's looking for what he got as a teacher on full-time four hours a day. And Eve switched to office work, and along with her, she helps schoolteachers who have lost their jobs. All three left the teaching career because of the workload, uncertainty, vulnerability and disproportionately low pay. In a forum in Győr, it turns out that teachers know little about this law. [[Bence Rétvári: That's right.]] The most important lesson is that if the status law comes into force, they cannot expect much from the government's impact study, and it depends on the goodwill of local leaders to push the strings to the zit, the schools live in the school districts, and the courses authorised by the law, for example, in the transitions or in compliance with the notice periods. András Juhász, director of the József Attila High School in Újbuda said these words: "I'm afraid that in two or three years' time we will say how good the situation was in September 2023. It's not a school that's gonna be completely out of control in the near future because of the resignations. We know of an institution in New Buda where eight have stood up so far, but the real blow will be if, in the course of the year, those who have now decided to wait until September. So far, four people have indicated their resignation: 26, 27, 41, 42, two Hungarian and two mathematics teachers. Many of them say goodbye to the track, as they could not work under the status law and the new rating system. One of them continues to work in a church institution. The gap they leave behind is extended by a fifth retired educator. We're in a better position than the national average. This can be explained by the fact that, although many are desperate, only four have submitted their resignations. Gradually, he's become a worse teacher and a worse director, but he's never been so desperate. It's like a crazy, blind coachman fighting the horses towards the ravine, and he's gonna show everyone how not to worry about it, because the cart runs, and then it's just inches away from the ravine. I do not expect mass school closures, but it is expected that the school will become an increasingly child-care place, where the gym teacher or Hungarian teacher will attend math classes. And if we look further into the future, this raises the question: who will build houses, who will heal people? If there is no adequate secondary schooling, it will soon reach universities and grow into a global social problem, which is already an amazing idea of the 21st century. In the century. If the masses of young people are to socialize in this, they will leave the country in bulk. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Summer Zsigmond, director of the Catholic Elementary School and High School of St. Gellért, says these words:, Keeping the soul in the faculty and, of course, keeping the community together is the hardest challenge right now. There is a noticeable presence of frustration, burnout, fatigue, anxiety and fear among teachers, even in this very good background school I have never seen before. One thing's for sure, the wall we're running towards is very close. If there's no turnaround, I wouldn't be surprised by the complete collapse of education. The teachers are so tired, so burned out, so crippled, it's no wonder they can't stand up for their own interests. When you struggle to survive, it takes all strength. The benchmarking system to be introduced will start a wave of resignations even higher than it is now if it is not preceded by a strong message that makes it clear to teachers that they are important and will remedy their problems. That's what they're waiting for. If young people were to stand in line, it would be good to see those who are not qualified to take their place, but at present in Hungarian public education, it is not clear from where the new, more capable workforce will flow in, so I feel it is timeless to introduce a system of assessment in the competition sector, which is based on its logic. This can only result in frustration. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, A Dispatch Teacher:.I signed today that after ten years we will terminate my educational work relationship with my school by mutual agreement. I applied for it, after it turned out that next year, you couldn't teach English in group break-ups under 14 people, so I didn't have enough English lessons for half-jobs, other classes and study rooms. However, in the shadow of the Status Act, I thought that I would no longer conclude this compromise. I got up. Understood. Yesterday and today, two teachers left our school. I'm from the competition sector in public education, so I'm supposed to be going back there. I'm sad, and I'm a little scared, but I'm on my way. I'm graduating with the eighth graders tomorrow. But for God's sake, I beg you, have you thought about who's gonna teach me tomorrow? ! I've been a teacher for ten years, many around me for 20-30-40 years. They're all tired beyond measure. We've never had a decent salary, and we've lost our social respect. I know one young person who wants to be a teacher, but I know a lot about young children who need a teacher and teacher, a teacher who is prepared for the 21st century. The challenges of the century, who endures spiritually, physically and spiritually. We've wasted many years to renew the profession, but we're running out of time. Make an agreement, an acceptable solution as soon as possible, based on real professional considerations, because we care about children. Do they matter to you? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, According to expert opinions, the Vengeance Act does not improve, but would make the situation of education worse in Hungary. Measures to improve education can be taken without the Vengeance Act. The Vengeance Act undermines the labour law of teachers, renders the basic conditions necessary for the good functioning of education impossible, while seriously violating parental and student rights. [[His phone's ringing.]] The future of the country, the prosperity of its offspring...
u2023-06-16-348	It's okay.
u2023-06-16-349	..he's got his heart set on it, he's got to stand up for the teachers. Let us support their struggle and make it clear that the government cannot reach its goal by means of measures to regulate and intimidate them. The Vengeance Act is definitely rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]] [[5.10]]
u2023-06-16-350	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Miklós Dawn, Momentum Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-06-16-351	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, I'd pick up where I left off a few hours ago. At the time, it was not Deputy Minister Rétvári, but Secretary Maruzsa, who was here in the debate, but I think that a very important part of this debate is also the question of how legal, more precisely, how unlawful, this bill is. When we discussed this issue with Secretary Maruzsa, we discussed it, I went back to the opinion and resolution of the Hungarian Helsinki Committee on 10 March 2023. [[Bence Rétvári: Then I'm sure it is! That's better than the Constitutional Court.]] I understand that if there is political prejudice in the Deputy Minister, because I can see that he immediately started commenting on it, but I still think that Mr. Deputy Minister is a lawyer, I think that professionally we should appreciate the lawyers of the Hungarian Helsinki Committee. [[Bence Rétvári: And not politically motivated!]] On 2 March 2023 the Government published the draft law and eight days were available for the opinion, which is why this material appeared on 10 March. These eight days, we say this because there is very little time actually when we talk about such complex and such long materials. So these eight days, which were available for social consultation at the time, were very little, but we managed to write this material. I'd like to go forward in time, jump over the things that we've already discussed with Secretary Maruzsa, and pick up where we left off. We talked about the rules of the extraordinary exemption, in particular the fact that the bill can be read on the basis that the legislator is the 53rd. In the original draft, it was also intended to respond to the civil disobedience movement of teachers when setting the time limit for exemption. So this was our topic, and because of which I am pushing against the fundamental law, unconstitutionalism, that is, and I would immediately turn to the position of the Constitutional Court here:. According to which the Constitutional Court itself recognizes, knows, and even recognises, the nature of the immunity from the consequences when it states,. and then I would quote in particular, the civil disobedience manifested by the exercise of freedom of opinion cannot be sanctioned under democratic rule of law. This is 3086/2018. The reasons for the AB decision are given. The practice of the Constitutional Court also recognises that if it is clear that a formally unlawful conduct is the exercise of freedom of opinion, then the fundamental rights aspect must be taken into account in the assessment of that conduct. The reasons for the AB decision are given. According to the Panel, if the act in question is an act of expression, both the public opinion of the person thus manifested, and the objective consideration being given, then its legality must be decided according to the standards of freedom of expression. In the absence of such circumstances, however, it is possible to judge the act, works or monuments according to the usual rules of coexistence. In this case, disfigurement of a monument may be considered a vandal act against which action can be taken under general law. We are talking about another matter here, but yet the manifestation itself, the objective consideration itself, the question of expression itself, is what is important here, even if there is a memory reflection right now in the context of this AB resolution. In addition, the Constitutional Court, which has been filled with constitutional judges elected by you, has reached a similar conclusion as regards the right of assembly and one of the specific forms of freedom of expression. According to the ECHR, for example, I would quote the Oya Ataman v. Turkey judgment here, 74552/1. Case No 41-42 § : In connection with unlawful but peaceful demonstrations, public authorities have a duty of tolerance and patience, i.e. they must approach behaviour from freedom of expression, not as a violation of law from a police point of view. We now understand why this seems to be an effective solution from the perspective of the Ministry of Interior. The freedom of expression and here I continue the analysis of the Hungarian Helsinki Committee as a fundamental rights concern in the present case, on the one hand, the genesis of the regulation extending back to the regulation, and the purpose of the regulation. The fact that the regulation responds to the opinion of those involved in civil disobedience on a matter of high importance in relation to the crisis in the education system is clear from the statement of reasons in the regulation itself. In the context of the disadvantage of the change introduced by the regulation and intended to be perpetuated by the draft, the following must be stated: the criterion also appearing in the practice of the Constitutional Court is that the employment relationship is asymmetrical and labour law rules aim at ensuring that the dependent situation on the employee side does not result in vulnerability. In the absence of adequate protection, the employee is exposed to the employer in a number of respects, not least because the lives of persons are decisively influenced by the care of themselves, see Article O of the Fundamental Law and the preconditions for creating material security that facilitates the exercise of other freedoms. From the knowledge of the employer, which is realisticly consistent with the achievement of civil disobedience, there is a contingent legal situation that may persist for months, compared with 15 days in Kjt and Mt. In this dependent situation, the employer is entrusted with his discretion to exercise the right of extraordinary dismissal or termination, which, as the sword of Damocles, hangs over the persons employed in the public education institution. This is clearly detrimental to educators, as they hold protesters in doubt that their conduct will be a consequence at all and, if so, what, thereby increasing the vulnerability that exists in the first place due to the asymmetric nature of the relationship. The draft highlights in particular the enforcement of children's right to culture, protection, care and freedom of teaching, which may be a legitimate reason for limiting fundamental rights. There is no doubt that the dismissal of a person who intentionally or with serious negligence, deliberately or by reason of a material obligation arising from the employment relationship in general education, or conducts a significant breach or conduct which makes it impossible to maintain a public education employment relationship, is necessary in the light of the declared child protection objectives of the draft. At this point, however, regulatory logic is constrained, as it is not at all capable of achieving a legitimate child protection objective, the solution is to remain teachers in the education system for up to 15 days, even for long months after the employer's knowledge has been acquired, who have committed such a serious breach of obligations, or who have shown a reprehensible attitude that normal dismissal is not a sufficient solution for them. The reason for this lack of confidence is only the underlying, real purpose of the regulation in question, to break the voice of teachers protesting civil disobedience, to put them in such a dependent position that their work force and their sense of responsibility for their students, which is clearly also behind their protest, can continue to be used, but it is easy to get rid of them if the necessity no longer requires further employment. However, in view of this, the test on the limitation of fundamental rights should not be applied in the usual manner. The European Court of Human Rights would once again refer to the European Court of Human Rights' approach to abuse of rights to assess the situation. Article XVIII of the European Convention on Human Rights According to Article 4 of the Convention, restrictions on the rights and freedoms referred to in the Convention cannot be applied for other purposes than those for which they are prescribed. The purpose of this Article is to prohibit abuse of rights under the ECHR. In establishing this, the ECHR examines the underlying intention behind the limitation of the law to the declared objective and which of the two is dominant. In the present case, it is clear that the declared child protection goal is not dominant, because then the legislator would not have allowed employers the leeway to hold teachers who have committed serious misconduct at educational institutions for up to half a year, but to undermine the effectiveness of protests. In view of this, ab ovo cannot be constitutionally acceptable to restrict the freedom of opinion of teachers protesting civil disobedience and thus expressing their views on public education by making their labour law situation worse. The original draft was 53. In its present form, Article B (1) of the Fundamental Law also infringes Article B (1) of the Fundamental Law. According to the practice followed from the beginning of the permanent operation of the Constitutional Court, once again it follows a quote:. It is clear that the rule of law provided for in Article B (1) of the Fundamental Law requires legal certainty. [[5.20]] This requirement, according to the consistent understanding of the Constitutional Court, means that the whole of the legal system, its sub-areas and certain rules must be clear, predictable in terms of their impact and foreseeable to the recipients of the norm, and must bear the norm that can be recognised in the application of the law. A 11/2021. This is explained by the reasons for the AB decision. In addition to this comprehensive interpretation, it should be highlighted and once again quoted, the Constitutional Courts elected by you wrote these words:. Legal certainty creates the possibility for legal entities to actually adapt their conduct to the requirements of the law. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, And then again, the analysis of the Hungarian Helsinki Committee:. The institution of extraordinary dismissal or immediate termination serves to ensure that not all of them are in public employment relations, but there are many in public employment relations, or that the employment relationship can be terminated in extreme cases within a short period of time. They're all K.K.T.s. All Mt. According to the Court of Justice, this option is available within a period of time from the date on which it becomes aware of the circumstances giving rise to it, within the framework of an objective and limitation period of one year of criminality. By way of derogation from this Regulation, the draft empowers the employer to exercise this form of exemption at any time, even months later, from the knowledge of the circumstances giving rise to it. The draft is also more stringent than the regulation, as it does not include an objective time frame other than the limitation of criminality. This means that, under the scope of the draft, the employer may maintain a legal relationship which, in principle, can be terminated precisely because the continuation of such a relationship is impossible due to a breach of a material obligation or even a criminal offence. The draft therefore empties the substance of the exceptional waiver and the immediate termination of the legal institutions by such an extension of the subjective time period. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, In the interpretation of the Constitutional Court, legal certainty arising from the principle of the rule of law laid down in Article B (1) of the Fundamental Law requires that a law regulates a given life situation in a sufficiently predictable manner. One aspect of legal certainty and its main criterion is that legal entities can organise and shape their conduct accordingly. This is particularly important, as explained above, in situations where the norm concerned seeks to resolve an addictive or asymmetric relationship between entities. They're all K.K.T.s. all Mt. arrange in a predictable manner when and how the employer can make use of the extraordinary, immediate termination of the relationship. In contrast, the more precise rule introduced by the draft allows the employer to exercise, at any time, the right of extraordinary dismissal or immediate termination within a period which significantly exceeds, where appropriate, the 15-day subjective time limit otherwise granted, knowing, where appropriate, the act of the data subject. This situation leads to uncertainty for the worker and vulnerability to the employer. In other words, the employee cannot anticipate the consequences of his actions, exercising his rights accordingly and fulfilling his obligations. The opinion of the draft therefore violates the principle of legal certainty arising from the rule of law laid down in Article B (1) of the Fundamental Law. Finally, it violates the draft legislation of the Fundamental Law II. This article also states that the human dignity is inviolable. Every man has the right to life and human dignity, the life of a fetus is protected from conception. In accordance with the permanent practice of the Constitutional Court, the Fundamental Law II. The right to human dignity guaranteed in Article 3187/2017 provides for the absolute protection of human status in the interpretation of the Constitutional Court. AB and 3225/2017 respectively. AB orders express the untouchable essence of man. The 64/1991. AB's decision states that the right to human dignity is an expression of the human quality of a person, meaning that there is a core of the individual's autonomy, self-determination, which is excluded from everyone else's provisions, from which a person remains a subject and cannot become an instrument or object. Consequently, situations causing subjective annoyance to the individual, or legal provisions that may be considered unreasonable, are not related to the constitutional content of the right to human dignity. It can be seen from the opinion of the legislative body that it is intended to keep employees in public education in employment until the end of the academic year, in a situation where the employer has a serious legitimate interest in closing it within a short period of time. In addition, this reservation is made by evacuating the legal institution guaranteed by all other employment legislation. In view of this, it can be concluded that the legislator considers educators to be instrumental in filling gaps in the education system and maintaining the functioning of the system, by reference to the interests of children. I would like to ask Mr Deputy Minister to respond to the criticisms of the Hungarian Helsinki Committee on these non-laws and unconstitutionalities. Thank you very much.
u2023-06-16-352	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister, who wishes to respond out of the question. Here you go, Minister.
u2023-06-16-353	May all your requests be met by the congressman. Indeed, it raised an interesting question, but if you look at the whole speech, then you have actually argued in favour of the bill, because it has demonstrated that what the bill brings back to the public education system, the disciplinary procedure, is necessary, because there is no gradual process between the expression of verbal disapproval and the termination of employment. By bringing back the previous disciplinary options for the employer, this bill also responds to the very points that you said here in the previous ones, so that there should be a gradual process, because obviously there are many things in a school: the teacher doesn't come in, he doesn't come in class, he doesn't come in a state where he can hold a class, there's a lot of things, how he interacts with his colleagues, how he communicates with his parents in the host hour. So there are many things that can obviously be expected from society, from parents to the teacher, from the director to the members of the faculty. If someone is seriously affected, there are always excuses for something to come up, someone needs to be taken to the hospital, and the rest, obviously, are completely objective and should be appreciated in any case, if someone has a fault of their own, then obviously there was no opportunity for the employer, and you referred to this. Bringing back disciplinary action will give you the opportunity to be gradual, not just the only option, I'm telling you, apart from verbal disapproval, or to terminate this relationship, but also to have another option. I think it is important to look at this issue not only according to class-fighter logic [[There's a grumble in opposition lines.]] It's based on the interests of the students. Obviously, one of the basic functions of schools is to ensure the supervision of students, the supervision of children, and obviously also the school principal has a responsibility to share teachers at all times, even during normal school hours, during work cessations, how they can take care of children. That is why, when you challenged the Constitutional Court, the decisions of which you quoted, the amendment of the strike laws, which made it more concrete, predictable, faster and simpler in schools than in the previous prolonged and uncertain way, the Constitutional Court rejected all your arguments, did not accept any arguments, and did not destroy a single paragraph, not a single letter from the law, because it acknowledged... [[Szabó Timea: Shock!]] Well, you can decide which one is better. The former regime was that the trade unions had submitted their claims for strike, and a consultation had begun, and they had agreed with a Head of Department, and then with an Deputy State Secretary, a Secretary of State, or a Minister, they had come to something, they didn't get anything, they usually didn't get anything, they said that they would announce a strike, then we would have enough service, and we would begin the conciliation, ministry on the lower, middle, upper level, they would generally not come to an agreement, and then they would go to court. The court has decided that there may have been an extraordinary remedy for one or another, and if we look at the numbers of the last 30 years, at least six months, usually 10-12 months, but there was a time and a year and a half between the announcement of claims and the holding of the strike. Compared to this, the current regulation is to announce on one Wednesday that a strike is to take place, to announce the fact of the strike five working days before the strike, to announce three working days before who is involved, one day before the strike, the director announces the schedule of work, and so you believe that a strike can be held a week after the announcement. So when you had to wait a year from the announcement to the strike, it was beneficial, democratic, and now when you can have a strike in a week, you think it's repressive and undemocratic. [[5.30]] Obviously here, I think we're dealing with a situation of political blindness, but you keep saying that, obviously you have an opportunity to do so. So we think it's a more predictable and faster method of strike planning than before, and it's good for everyone. It is also beneficial for those who want to strike, as it does not have to wait six months, a year, it is much more predictable, it does not have to make anything dependent on the court, but it is assumed that, in fact, half of the teachers do not have to take the job, to be more precise: they do not have to hold half of the hours, except for graduations, they have to keep these classes there. And it's better for the school, because he's predictable, not waiting for the court, but he can figure out exactly what to expect. We think this is better for everyone: it is better for both students, working teachers and non-working teachers. The half sentence you quoted, honourable Member, was very important, and I would ask you to read this part at the Momentum Group meeting that the Fundamental Law gives everyone the right to peaceful protest and peaceful demonstration. So what you're doing is pushing citizens with both hands on the police line, not the peaceful protest to throw metal objects, plastic objects, etc., that's not a peaceful demonstration. It is very good that you have read this decision here, because it says precisely about Momentum's practice over the last few months that it is not a constitutional part. You yourself read the part that made it clear that what Momentum is doing was illegal. And we know you know it's a violation because you're doing it because it's a violation. You want to demonstrate that you are violating it by drawing attention to yourselves. Twice today, I have read Péter Ungár's opinion on how self-serving is what Momentum is doing in this area. So I'm not going to read this again, although when I first read it, it was yesterday, even though it was this meeting day, but it was only legally this day, not calendarly, but it doesn't matter. So the point is that the Fundamental Law gives everyone the opportunity to demonstrate peacefully, and you have done a direct political awareness and political provocation according to this Alinsky method. It has three phases: violence, provocation, and victimism; they go there by force, they attack institutions, they aggressively assault the police, they push civilians against the police. I've never seen politicians put civilian people on police lines before the Momentum, I don't think they've done that much, let's hope they don't. It's not a little outrageous that you people are so... I don't know anymore, but, yes, you quoted my speech, human dignity. People shouldn't be seen as an instrument, they should be seen as a personality, and for you, it was just a tool. If you put it on the cops and something happens, it's for your political purposes, so please read this section on human dignity at the Momentum's meeting. So, honourable Member, the peaceful demonstration is guaranteed to all, and no one has been at any disadvantage when he has peacefully stood up for his opinion. This may have been the case in the case of a teacher, but in previous months there have been a lot of demonstrations, it has been assured to everyone, but it is not acceptable for you to include violence in the political toolbox again. It's not unique, well, one of your president's first spectacular national action was after the olympic torpedoing signature collection when the police were throwing smoke candles at the police. So it's not just one, not just that it's not fit to be a politician, it's not worthy of any man, it's not worthy of attacking the police. So we reject this kind of violence, and you use it because you know it's illegal, but you want to see who's stronger here in the force battle with DK, what the proportions are. That's what you're trying to do, and we know it very well, so let's not be hypocrites, that's what you think. As Péter Ungár said, because there is no content, violence is the political achievement you want to show, and so you are running in the corner of Ferenc Gyurcsány. That's what I can tell you for your legal interpretation. Thank you very much for confirming, even by quoting the Helsinki Committee, that parts of this law can precisely support the principle of gradualness. And we ask you not to see teachers as an instrument, not as an instrument, or as an instrument for educators, if I wanted to speak in such a very legal language. Respect them, do not settle for their protests, tell them your political opinion, and they do not want to drag them into a political gravitational space, but let them express their free opinion. I think it will be best for the whole country: politicians will give political opinions, and they will not be victims of any political family or party. Thank you very much.
u2023-06-16-354	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman László Varju, DK Group.
u2023-06-16-355	Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. Mr State Secretary's argument again and again gives us the opportunity to get into a serious debate. I'd just like to respond to a few of these, the previous ones. One part is that which can lead to achieving the goals, and in this case, for example, the Democratic Coalition faction has submitted a legislative amendment proposal to this effect, only 5 percent of the budget, which can otherwise be resolved through redeployment. This could solve many more problems, not just teachers. So if I took the trouble, it would make a lot of progress. Part two of the story: you argued that you asked the teachers, asked the families, even asked all the families, but with questions such as those related to the school guards, the professional books, or that you agreed to involve them in the demonstration, which, I think, is a bad question; just because they are trying to argue with such questions, while those who raise the real problems and blow them off with tear gas. So from this point of view, I think what you're doing is unacceptable. Finally, I say that when teachers are asked, in their rating system, the primary issue will not be how much government bonds could be obtained from families, and the number of them will not be the primary issue. In that KRÉTA system, which, let's just say, has been disabled several times in a row, but here in the friendly renovation, they have made it something that, I say, has proved in many cases that it can't be used for anything. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2023-06-16-356	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Berki, Dialogue.
u2023-06-16-357	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Secretary, welcome, and I'm glad you came in, it's always been a pleasure to have a word with you, and I wouldn't have missed that. So that's great, and then I'd respond to some of your sentences, because they're really good, so you're saying we shouldn't settle for teacher demonstrations. Well, please take your own advice. I can't say anything better than that. You're giving me such good advice that I'd like to return it to you this way. And you and the teachers should sit down properly, and you shouldn't settle for certain cases or education, so don't take advantage of this system, but build it. I was very happy to listen to him speak with such a sense of reform of education, and he said that everything will be fine, everything will be fine, it will be improved. Well, that's not what I'm seeing, but it sounds good to me from your mouth, although I know nice words don't always give you the truth. But I really am happy to hear from you, and I hope that I will be able to listen to it for a long time in this House, and even today. But, Mr Secretary of State, please take this story a little more seriously, so there are much bigger problems in education, and I do not see how this law makes it better, but I also said that in the evening. I'd expect an answer to that. In the end, there are questions about the countryside. So you know the real situation of education. What I can tell you is that in this situation, there are schools in the country that if only one teacher quits, then what happens is that the education in that school is gone. Major subjects, mathematics and all that, how's this gonna work? Because we have a lack of teachers in the country. So I need a solution to that. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the opposition ranks.]]
u2023-06-16-358	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Vajda, MSZP Group.
u2023-06-16-359	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Let's just keep an assessment: it's 5:30 in the morning after a few minutes, and then out of the 135 brave puppets I see three brave puppets, a brave KDNP puppet and two brave puppets with fidesz and a brave secretary of state with the last name of Retvár. [[5.40]] In my previous longer comment, I shared personal stories with teachers leaving with you within a 15-minute time frame. They were personal in themselves, but now I'm going to share the most personal one in this brief comment with you. My beloved received an Esperente poem because my beloved is called Emese. He received an Esperente poem on one of the last days of his teaching, which I now share with you. I dedicate my poem to you, Emese. / You dear, holy thing. / Because you loved, enthusiastically raised my being. / Spreading your spirit, you have enriched my mind, / and you have developed my language. / I'm in a good mood with you / I'm in a good mood to develop. / The origin of my poetry / This unsavory mind, which you lead, and you raise / Kindly in this place. / For many people / You report unforgettable, / Happy minutes. With you, there were no unpleasant cases. / I can't be bitter with you, / with you on a regular basis / I'm in a great mood, / and I'm in a lively mood. / Your name sounds nice to me, / they christened me with Melly. I love you, my dear Emese, you bread of my soul. May I have a decree? / Love and love be with you! / Unforgettable, pleasant weeks / Get You! I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry about this Esperente poem. It's a really bad professional challenge to write it down. [[Szabó Timea: Poor stenographers!]] I'm just telling you that it's difficult for the stenographer, but let the poem that Emese received on the last days of his teachings be brought to the record here. He's leaving for you, too. Thank you for letting me tell you. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2023-06-16-360	Thank you very much, Congressman. Now I understand where you got the shrinking instructor, let me make so many comments, but you should use this somewhere else. I don't think this House is suitable for the name of the person. Thank you very much for your understanding. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Member István Hollik, KDNP Group.
u2023-06-16-361	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. It is difficult to take this debate seriously after such a speech. But while we are at this level, I can really say that it may not be a coincidence that, after such speeches, we have two thirds of them. [[Defiance.]] They are so keen to attack the proposals before us on a political basis that I would like to draw your attention to the fact that they sometimes run a little too far. Unfortunately, Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi is no longer here. He was able to say that I wrote down literally that this law, which now lies before us, is damaging all rights, of course, to teachers, but even parental rights. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The personal scope of this bill extends to educators. From this bill to the conclusion that parental rights are being undermined by this bill, it really makes this professional debate difficult to take seriously. I suggest that if you criticize me, you write down your professional criticisms, and then these mistakes won't go wrong. Congressman Berki, who has now gone out, said that more attention should be paid to conciliation. On the part of the government, we have repeatedly said that this is a bill before which there were the most comprehensive and deep discussions, and even the government initiated a special consultation, in which tens of thousands of teachers otherwise participated, sent their answers back. So be kind when you talk about the lack of professional consultation, take this into account. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-06-16-362	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Miklós Dawn, Momentum Group.
u2023-06-16-363	Thank you very much. Luckily, my fellow Member, István Hollik, has turned all such debates into professional debates. [[Defiance from the opposition benches.]] And it's always in the voice of professionalism. [[Bence Rétvári: Yet we were chosen for something!]] I remember that he also wrote the election program of Fidesz 2022, and also the 2018 election program, but for some reason the voters could not read that election program with endless professionalism. But I'd like to talk about something else, and I'd like to get back to the original subject of the debate. I had hoped that even the sun would be different at dawn, but it seems that it is not, and it seems that we are now at the pre-date stage of the Saturday on the basis of the comments made by Deputy Minister Retvári. I'd like to make it clear that we didn't assault the police, that would be, you know, assaulting an official. This has not been done by members and representatives of the Momentum. Now one of our MPs has a record that he didn't do it. However, what the police did, i.e. using tear gas against the crowd of protestors without a verbal warning, goes against both the Curia's judgment and the police's internal regulations. The police are your responsibility, as far as I know. What the police have done, with my colleague Márton Tompos being brought into Quick Car Street without being able to name the basis on which he is being brought in now, is, to my knowledge, contrary to the laws you have made, and this has been done by the police, which is also controlled by your ministry, your ministry. What I wanted to ask you instead of this type of accusation, and I am still waiting for that answer, is that, in fact, with this bill, it is not your goal to restrict civil disobedience teachers in their civil disobedience. Aren't we talking about the restriction of freedom of opinion in a labour law gown here? Thank you very much.
u2023-06-16-364	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the two-minute speeches. I now give the floor to Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Deputy Minister.
u2023-06-16-365	Thank you very much for the floor. I'd like to respond to Congressman Varju's reaction. Budget transfer. Many times in the past 13 years, the left has taken the turn, the opportunity, the suggestion that the government should take something from here and put it there, usually take it away from communications, stadiums, here, there, and there, because then it should not happen, but it should happen, not to build sports, but, say, health care, education, and so on. [[Interventions from opposition parties.]] Class Warrior logic is here. I said that word a lot this morning. [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties.]] But it's not for nothing, because that's the first thing you can think about. [[Szabó Timea: What class fight?]] You usually make fun of us by trying to build a system of national cooperation after 2010, when it is not the country from whom to take it away, but from whom to give it to someone, but also more and more. [[Intercoms from opposition parties: Butcher!]] That's our logic. Those who sold over a hundred state companies also reduced the wages of teachers at the same moment. So it wasn't about increasing public wealth now or raising the wages of teachers, but it was about reducing public wealth, increasing public debt at the same time, and reducing the wages of teachers at the same time. So we believe that governance can be done effectively. We believe that over the past 13 years people have re-elected us because they agree with this, as we have done, because state wealth has already been able to grow, and taxes have also been able to decrease, and family support has also been able to grow, and we have been able to increase in salaries. So we don't take this from here or put it there, but we consider it important to get ahead together. Consultation. We asked a lot of questions here, but we also thought that we could not ask all the questions that concern teachers or even parents, which is why there was a free-word section. the answers. What you raised in the protests at school was that this was the most divisive question for parents, and that was the answer that parents did not want to deal with the fact that when the child is sent to school, this is a political statement or not, because the teacher asked that the person who is now protesting against the government should not send his child in; that is not what the school is for. This was the most divisive of parents, and most refused to give an opinion because that is not what school is about. [[5.50]] This was also the most educational feedback in this free-word section. That is why we say that if we have a legal opportunity to have an EU resource because of the budgetary resource, the Union has been open since this epidemic, and we have created this construction, and we have also provided it in July last year, especially if I look at it by 2030, 5600 billion, but again this year, as there has been a 10 percent increase in the spring; this law also brings a raise in wages, as it fixes minimum earnings, so that the lowest earners, in particular for starters, will have a wage increase on the adoption of the law, and for those in disadvantaged regions, too, because we will introduce the surplus they are doing there, which will also bring a wage increase, but this is still not enough compared to what we want. What Ágnes Kunhalmi dared to say here at 4:00 a.m. in a sentence would be said by the left-wing MEPs in Brussels at work. I would say to Mr Sándor Berki that I think he has never seen such a broad consultation before any amendment to the Education Act. I think, when you think about it, obviously, there was no such opportunity for digital consultation 20 years ago. So I wouldn't count on anyone for that part, but we did have 21 rounds of negotiations with the unions, 10 rounds, the Public Education Council. [[Sneezes on Szabó Timea.]] Cheers. , with everyone else, the Strategic Round Table for Public Education, church maintenance, private support, scientific and artistic corps, student and parental organisations as well as the National Student Parliament. It wasn't that extensive. You're gonna tell me that in order. I've said this many times in answer, but because I think it's very strange that at least they can admit that there has been a broad consultation this time, as extensive as it has never been for 30 years. It's too bad it didn't come out that there were at least three things that we all agreed on together, but there was no negotiation, the denial of that. It would be better to go to the country schools if he were here. Obviously, this is a question for me, too, especially in the summer period, as an individual Member of Parliament, which often arises because there really are schools, small secondary schools, how they can work, how they can not work. Where possible, our government ensures this everywhere, so we have actually brought the mandatory class numbers down to such a low level that we can keep as many small schools as possible, and besides it is the village CSOK, so that there really is the survival power of small settlements. But if I look at the proportions in the drop in student numbers and the drop in teacher numbers, the Secretary of State, Zoltán Maruzsa, said in the expozee that there is a far greater proportion of student drop in schools than the decrease in the number of teachers in education overall. The number of teachers varies between 165 and 170 thousand, sometimes up and sometimes down by a few thousand, so here we can talk about a decrease of up to 2-3 percent in the last 10-13 years, while the number of students is unfortunately higher because the population is unfortunately losing because of birth numbers, we can talk about a decrease of 13-15 percent. So the percentage of students is much higher than the number of teachers. So the teacher-student ratio has not deteriorated in recent years. I can only tell Zoltán Vajda that the wage increase is the most important thing that we can do together, and we are very sorry that the left in Brussels continues to prevent, hinder and hinder it, and Ferenc Gyurcsány tells us with an open helmet that he is doing this, or Csaba Molnár reported this in the shadow government info. Congressman Dawn has put me in a dilemma. Do I believe you or my eyes? It was a dilemma, but I believe my eyes. The only thing that upsets me is to believe my wife or my eyes, sometimes I believe my wife more, but in your case, I wouldn't upset that balance, I'm forced to believe my eyes. I see it there, I think there's two politicians with moments who put two hands on the police line. Please forgive me for being so biased that I believe this video better. But I think it's a lesson for you, too, if you don't want to achieve election results like the previous ones, so that you don't try to deny this part of reality. With regard to police action, look, where there is no violation, there is no police action, where there is an infringement, there is police action. That's the way it was before, that's the way it is now, that's how the law rules. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] And you asked the most important question about the purpose of the law. You're the one who gave me a purpose, which, obviously, in order to drive people against the law, may be appropriate. By the way, I really think you should think about doing this. We all take responsibility as Members of Parliament for the nation, we sit here. We are in a very privileged position to sit here in Parliament and decide on the fate of our country, our country that raised us, and we have become the kind of people that we have become, that it is worth creating all kinds of rumors and false news about this law, and thus encouraging teachers to do such and so terrible things in this law, so stop being teachers, while the laws improve the situation precisely for students and teachers. What is the purpose of this law? That's what you asked. I could say a lot of things, but if I could only say one thing as the main objective, it is exactly what you say is an attack, of course, that the public servant is going to be a teacher, that they will have their own relationship, which is adapted to them, not to everyone, but to them and to their performance, that good teachers, teachers who work with students, will finally receive recognition in their performance assessment and in their salary. If the good is not rewarded, the good ones will either go to other areas or lose some of their motivation. But if we can strengthen the motivation, because he went as a teacher because he loves children, he thinks the classes are about to make the best of himself, but we also need outside confirmation. You need outside confirmation, too. It's good for me to have outside confirmation because that's how we're made of people. If this is reflected in the wage, and if someone is more involved in that academic year, then also in their recognition and financial recognition, then we believe that the whole education has become better and can stimulate quality, so the purpose of this bill is that if you have already asked about it in this way. Thank you very much.
u2023-06-16-366	Thank you. I give the floor to Tamás Bellozó, from the group of the MSZP. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-06-16-367	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary, you're fighting so much class here, I'm afraid you've lost some latent worker movement. You're welcome to talk it out. It's not that big a problem. We fully understand it, however, but we note that when you say, Mr Secretary of State, on a question raised by us from the opposition, we would like to transfer it to health, for example, by means of a budgetary amendment, that it is a class warrior thing. No, Secretary of State, I know that everything from the Ministry with the VIP service and the connection system and the money is possible, but it's not. It's not a class fighter thing, it's a survival fighter thing in this country, that health care money that they're spending right now should also spend multiples of your wallet, your wallet, and put it in order. What you said about the negotiation, Mr. Secretary, that's really ridiculous. They were kind enough to call in the parliamentary parties. Well, you've seen what you call negotiation. They didn't say anything to the experts behind their backs, and once the Members could say what they thought, and then the Minister said thank you, well, that was wonderful for everyone to go home. Mr State Secretary, the Minister said there that substantial changes in the issues that the fellow Members said there could not really be opened up. They asked for this to be postponed, which they didn't want to hear. The manner and depth of the negotiations with the trade unions were publicly informed after each negotiation, but the outcome is also a perfect indication. And I would just like to say to my fellow Member Hollik that if you really don't understand how a schoolteacher career, a bill regulating the work of teachers and their powers has an impact on parents or even on parental rights, it is completely unnecessary for us to talk further. Well, for example, my honourable fellow Member, if I take away the right to decide from the faculty and hand it over to the maintenance staff appointed from Budapest, who otherwise have nothing to do with that institution, sit in an office and try to do better from there, and in worse cases do not, they can affect parental rights, for example, how they interact with their children, anything, even the sms will be accepted in the KLIK. Do you think that an institution does not affect parental rights or can not influence it? But that's not what I wanted to talk about, and that's not what I'm gonna do for a few minutes, it's about something else, and it's totally different. [[6.00]] Here you are doing an educational reform, as you claim, not only now, but also in recent years. This has several steps, started with nationalisation, all the municipal institutions were taken away and nationalized. A government governing body has been established above this, and it has been said that from now on the state will provide public education in Hungary. They then adopted a national basic curriculum, and now they have introduced a new career model law before the House. This could look like a complex public education reform. I asked for the floor because I would like to tell you about my experience and the experience I had here, by the way, specifically to listen to Szekszárd, in college, when the Finnish ambassador, who had just married a girl from Szekszárd, who had left Szekszárd, had given a lecture on the Finnish education system before leaving Szekszárd, but mostly on how and how that reform was implemented, because it was, in his view, the most important assurance and basis of the otherwise, calmly, ex post, miracle that Finland had created in this area. And there may already be some adjustments to the system today, but for 40 to 50 years, that country has been the example and model of the world, I don't think anyone can dispute it. Mr State Secretary, they began in the 1970s, and the rapporteur also stressed this very much because the political side, the profession, began to negotiate very, very long. But that is not the question of how much has been discussed, but of how much has been agreed until a compromise has been reached with all the political players in the profession. Because they said that the rise of that nation will depend on the ability of the education system to provide the best possible education for all children on equal terms in the coming decades. And they said, and they thought that not only in years or in cycles, but also for decades, it must be guaranteed that any political side will be brought to the government, this compromise, this educational reform, will not be interrupted, but will be carried forward in the planned way. And I did. And I would like to remind you that Finland was, after World War II, a small country in a situation worse than the economic and financial situation in Hungary. And I would also like to remind you that in the 1990s and 2000s this country became a model country, a country that could guarantee the welfare and security of its citizens, and, moreover, it provides social security and prosperity to its citizens to this day, which the Hungarian average picker cannot comprehend that this is actually possible in any country. This has been done, Mr Secretary of State, by starting the first ten years of basic primary school education for the first time in decades. Then came the secondary school, followed by universities, quite strangely afterwards, and we are still only in the 90s and 2000s, the program of lifelong learning at national level, because it is extremely important in terms of the labour market, but also in the lives of individuals, so that a person can adapt to the changing world with an adult head and not only participate in re-training programmes from EU funds, but also be part of a national education programme on a permanent basis. And the last time they looked at how to retrain and train their elderly, retired citizens, because they also realized that society is getting older, and that a good part of pensioners are working and happy to work, because their lives are making sense again, and they feel that they are an esteemed, useful member of society instead of being lonely at home, and, by the way, they bring benefits to society as a whole by doing value-making work. That's what it looked like. And it began, my fellow Members, that in the first round the state took hold of a compass and drew a map of the country that there must be a school within a certain kilometer of radius; it built them, built the infrastructure, in the same way for everyone, with the appropriate education, education, library, or swimming pool infrastructure, and, to this day, it is maintained by the state, in the same way for everyone. This could have been linked to the fact that you have taken the step of nationalization, because it is possible to argue that it is fair, normal, that there are better schools than a rich municipality, and obviously not than a poorer municipality, and that the country itself is recreating the differences. Of course, that's not what happened in Hungary, but once again, the basic structure was this. Here, let me note the personal example of Ambassador, whose father, Mr. Secretary of State, owned a taxi company and lived in the seventies and eighties, living in Lapland, taking the children into school by taxi from Lapland. Because everyone's right today, even then, was decided, until today, is the right of every child to enter the school free of charge, whether he lives on a farm or in a 20-story house in the city centre, he has the right to be at the same quality at the school and get in. I'm just suggesting this, Mr. Secretary, which you have really shown us here with great vehemence, so that we should apologize for the fact that we are in a position to mention the situation of schools in Hungary because of the lack of teachers, and we should be glad that they will send the teacher to another school and not send the children after the teacher. I swear to God, I don't understand how you can say that with an unshakable face, Mr. Secretary of State. So there is a system of education in Hungary after 13 years of government, that there is no teacher at school, and we thank you and thank the Hungarian people and the children for not having to travel after teachers in the morning, I don't know, after zero hours they get on a bus, they pass, and how good it is that they don't have to do this. Mr. Secretary, your job is to ensure that you are a teacher at school. It's not a privilege or it doesn't have to be grateful to anyone, it's their job. You cannot do this, you have failed, and that is the case. And it's a big question of money, and as you can see, it goes to all kinds of other places. But the huge difference between the two systems, and they don't understand it, they don't want it, or I'm right about what I said in my previous speech, is that this has nothing to do with the profession, this is a political issue that they're doing now, that while maintaining the infrastructure there is a matter for the state, but what happens at school, nobody on the government's side or in any way talks about it into it. It is decided by the school, the faculty, the teachers, the parents, and I know that this is amazing in Hungary, but imagine, and the children together decide from which textbook, according to which method, they learn. Because we're not the same in this. And they're not the same, the city man is not the same, the countryman is not the same. And everyone will be able to find for themselves the way and from what type of curriculum, for example, many of which could be chosen, and indeed before 2010, in that cursed time here in Hungary, too, and will decide, enough adult people are both teachers and parents, by the way, I add, both the children who are involved in making this decision together. That's a huge difference. And that's never gonna make your system work, because it can't be from Carmelita or Szalay Street, and I have no idea where they are now, from the BM building, the Ministry of Home Affairs, to tell you what textbook you're supposed to be teaching at Kaking dinners or even in Debrecen. You can't tell, at least because it makes sense, there's no way to tell. [[6.10]] And this is a huge problem, Mr. Secretary of State, that you do not want to hear about this, let alone freedom of teaching and XXI. It's about centuries of education and skill-based education, but they're cementing what they've got and what they've decided years ago. It's sad, and I gave it as an example because there are two thirds of them, but if a country is already starting to transform an education system, it's either doing it this way, by example, or it's going to avenge itself. And now you think I'm gonna say things like we're gonna see, and in two or three years, we're gonna see what happens. No, Mr Secretary of State, and I would like to conclude with this, not in two or three years' time, or in five or ten years' time; what is today, in the 13th year of your governance, is what is really going on in schools. And I don't know what schools they judge the situation of education based on, but what, let's say, I know personally or through any referrals, elementary schools, there's only a lack of teachers, there's stomach cramps, everyone's neurotic, they can't meet teachers, they can't hire teachers anymore. This causes further problems in the faculty, among the children, everywhere. And the toilet paper and the printer paper, not to mention, which is ridiculous at XXI. It's ridiculous in the century, but it's certainly ridiculous where, for hundreds of billions, they're building every god's dome from Carmelite through the Castle, but it doesn't get our children to study normally. This, overall, tells us, Mr State Secretary, that this bill is also wrong, and this whole reform, not just what it is, but how it is done. And we think he'll avenge himself. Unfortunately...
u2023-06-16-368	Congressman, you have another 15 minutes to proceed.
u2023-06-16-369	Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-06-16-370	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2023-06-16-371	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is not for you alone, but I would generally say, which may not only bother me from the debates over the last few months, that when we hear the left or the left-wing organizations, they say that everything that is around Hungarian education is wrong, especially what has happened in the last ten years. And then you're gonna give me an example that everything else is good. Sometimes you can't be so right that you're not wrong about something, and you can't be wrong about something that isn't true about what you're saying. So that's why we can't be so exaggerating. And I don't want to get into this morally, but nobody can talk to the Hungarian teachers in a way that everything that is here is terrible, because in the previous speech, I said a lot of results that Hungarian students have achieved, and they have brought so many medals about the international Olympics that they have probably never done before, in IT, in science and in other fields. And then we tell you to go over everything, because Finnish is very good, and ours is very bad. [[Dr. Tamás Bell: Did I say that?]] That everything is to be taken from there. And let me make it clear that there is no other problem than here. I have also looked at a lot of articles on this, the Finnish education system and the Portuguese, right, this is the other thing that is important to us. Imagine, I even watched the Partisan video of the Finnish education system, and I think that it is in it that you are a little disproved that at the beginning the left parties had an idea, that the right parties opposed it there in Finland, but then for a very long time left parties were in power, and then this system was formed, and the right parties did not act against the established system. There wasn't as much consensus as you've outlined here, so it wasn't idyllic, but it was really political in the course of the cycles. But let's take a look at the PISA results of Finnish education, 2006, 2009 and 12, and 15 and 18. Science: they started at 563 points, they're at 522. Text understanding: started in 2006 around 546 points, now at 507 points. They started mathematics in 2003, if you look at it from 544 points, it's slightly elevated, and now they're at 507 points, all of them falling. And if you look after 2006, you will see the, 09, 12, 15 and 18, almost every year almost all of them will fall. That's what Momentum's education program was for us to take over the Finnish model. You can't solve the questions with a text message or a horsezung. [[Szabó Timea: A foundation can be...]] In Finland, in five years, the number of teachers' students on a programme called Yle has fallen from 13 to 8200. The problem with Finns is that the PISA results are deteriorating and the number of applicants for teacher training has dropped radically. It's like I'm hearing you here from 13,100 to 8200 in five years. Every fifth boy in elementary school has a reading problem. The difference between boys and girls is one of the biggest in Finland. The proportion of underachievers of natural sciences rose from 4.6 percent in 2006 to 12.9 percent in 2018. Also shown on this channel, 66 percent of teachers would demand greater discipline in classrooms, 81 percent of parents would demand greater discipline in classrooms. Nevertheless, the Finnish education system is still very good, let us not say bad, a good example, many things can be taken over from it, but let us not talk about it in such a way that elsewhere there is no problem, everything is sunny, everything is beautiful, everything is problem-free, because they also have similar problems that parents expect greater discipline in school; that the number of teachers in Finland is falling; we only had higher numbers of applicants with BA-, MA-tricks earlier than 20 years ago; and reading problems, natural science underachievements in the country of Nokia, where there was really such great IT developments 20 years ago. So, when we were students, you too, Congressman, and I, it was indeed a miracle, but this miracle doesn't hold up... in some respect to this day because one of the best education systems in Europe is Finland, he was able to fight himself into the top ten education systems in the world, but only he alone from Europe, and all the others are not European, Canada is still in it, and the rest are Asian countries, but let's not look down so much on the Hungarian education system, let's not say that everything is wrong here, and let's not say that they found perfection there, because they are dealing with the same problems as we, thank God, they have to look at this problem from a higher shelf, but the problem is the essence and root of the problem is the same. Therefore, it is the,, four feet good, two feet wrong, this black and white approach, that Hungarian is bad, foreign is good, and then tell us from abroad what to do, and always copy foreign examples, so it is not good, so it is schematic, and it also makes it impossible for us to engage in dialogue. Plus, you can't handle a country with a sentence like that, because there are good and bad things everywhere, there are things that work there, and it wouldn't work here. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: That's right.]] So much for the Finnish model. We like them and we respect them, and we can take a lot of good things from them, but let's just say we're taking over that free school election? This is the foundation of the Finnish model, the basis of the circle you started with. You can't choose a school. [[Szabó Timea: Because there are no such differences between schools.]] If anyone in Hungary introduced this in the government, you would be the first to protest, another right of freedom, a dictatorship will be completed, everyone will be co-opted and sent to district school. And that's how it works in Finland, about 99 percent of the children go to district school. Even in the Partisan video, if you look at it. There would be no private schools, no church schools. Every school would be a public school, a municipal school. [[Szabó Timea: There is a private school in Finland, don't slide!]] Would people accept this in Hungary? So, that's why you can't just treat him like this, because it's a very different system. Let's appreciate ours, let's say what's good about it, let's not be ashamed to praise what's good about it. It's the decision-making rights of faculty. The maintainer has nothing to do with the pedagogical program and certain regulations. Honourable Congressman, It wasn't here at an earlier stage, we talked about this, that it was really the same from the mid-nineties to the Hoffmann Roses, so even during the left-wing governments, so when you said that it had nothing to do with this, it was under left-wing governments as well as what this bill contained. You attacked Rózsa Hoffmann, but he introduced the way that he had installed these powers in the faculty, and now the system that was before the amendment 12-13 is restored, so it was under the left-wing governments. So, under you, it was the system that this law contains, which you are criticizing now, and consider to be an invasion of autonomy, just as it was followed in the left-wing period. That's why I'm not good at this, like, four-foot good, two-foot-bad, logic that the government is putting in, and I'm looking for an excuse to at least look at the reason, and then I'm gonna decide whether it's right or wrong, because that's not gonna get us anywhere, and people would really expect us to agree on national fate issues, like education. [[6.20]] And you know that I will eventually pass your first sentence, your nine-partisan agreement, and you know that Sándor Pintér is one of the ministers in this government who, before every important bill, invited opposition parties to negotiate, these were usually law enforcement or municipal laws before, not the laws of the human territory, and made sure that all parties received any proposals. It may not be the most important or the first, but something should be, exactly so that we can get closer, because that's what people would expect of us. I recall that you were not there on behalf of the MSZP, but that Congresswoman Ágnes Kunhalmi, who spoke there in a really kind style, but that your presence was the essence of exodus; not you, but the parties on the left. We're politicians, we know you're here to ask them to withdraw? We won't take it back then we'll pull out. So they played this script in advance, and that's how they got there. We weren't talking about the details of the bill, we weren't talking about the paragraphs. Many of the trade unions' proposals have been accepted, and in 32 stages many of their requests have been included in the bill; you know it, whether in relation to the waiver, probation or others, this has also been included in the news. So a lot of parts have been changed between 2 March and 6 June, so between publication and submission, following the proposals of trade unions. But these nine-partisan parties on the left considered it a political conflict field to go in, not go into the details, just withdraw it; not withdraw it? Then we'll pull out. So don't tell me there was no experiment. Obviously, a government has its own characterism, value world, purpose, according to which it formulates this law, shapes it; it is obviously different from that of other parties. But here, the possibility of a meaningful contribution was lost; the representative of Mi Hazan stayed there, the others withdrew, and we went through it from paragraph to paragraph, because he had such unsubstantiated suggestions, but this was not possible with the left-wing parties. And the next day, obviously, when the party experts could come, you said that there were three of them sitting behind them, the experts were actually sitting next to them, they were not speaking on that day, but the next day, but the next day, when they were given the floor, the expert of the MSZP, Erzsébet Nagy, the head of the PDSZ came, but there were only three of them at the beginning of the meeting; at the end there were two of them, the representative of Mi Hazank and the expert of the MSZP, Elizabeth Nagy, who, by the way, had already sat through ten meetings in a trade union hat, now sat through one more meeting in a MSZP hat, and he spoke to her about what he had said earlier, which he had already said several times. And the party experts didn't come to this meeting the next day. So obviously... [[Szabó Timea: We weren't invited!]] Everyone got the invitation; the others came because everyone got their invitation. I don't think we're gonna make this breakthrough tonight, but if we talk less schematically about things, we might be able to move forward. In any case, we have actually kept this discussion, and I think it is worth it in itself that this has been achieved. We regret that this was only one occasion for left-wing parties to withdraw. Thank you very much for listening, Congressman.
u2023-06-16-372	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, time flies, the evening turned into morning. [[Defiance.]] The Parliament has been meeting on this subject for almost 15 hours, and it will take 5 minutes, to be more precise, to have 15 hours. I give the floor to Szabó Timea, a group of dialogues. Here you go.
u2023-06-16-373	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I would also like to respond to Bence Rétvári's earlier words and to his recent words. So, this class warrior thing, I can see that you're in love with it. But tell me, what is the good of my mother in the class struggle in that, as you rightly said, in fact, opposition parties, when they submit a budget amendment proposal, are they submitting this amendment to spend more on hospitals and less on stadiums? ! What's the class fight in this? Which classes are fighting each other here? Because we think it's all in the social interest... Maybe NErencváros is fighting 99 percent of society, because 99 percent of society wants hospitals and health care, not stadiums. [[István Hollik: 99 percent of people do not shout, but speak nicely.]] So I understand this falling in love with this word right now, but I think it's a slip-up, so let's just leave it at that. The Secretary of State also said that it is in the interests of the children that they are no longer being transferred to the schools, but how good it is that the teachers are transferred. Here I would like to join my fellow Member, Tamás Harangozó, that you have been governing for 13 years, and you have the fourth two-thirds. You see this as an achievement in education, how good it is to have 16,000 teachers missing [[Bence Rétvári: We don't miss 16,000 teachers!]] And what is the result of not transferring complete classes to other schools, but of having to go to teachers? I think the result would be if no one had to go anywhere because there would be no shortage of teachers. My oldest son is in high school, he's in a practice high school, now he's in ninth grade. In the first year, and this is a school in Budapest, no, let's say Taktaharkány had nine servitudes in school, then seven, this year one. So you don't tell me and us, Secretary of State, that there are enough teachers and that there are enough teachers. Well, there aren't enough teachers in the schools in Budapest anymore. One of my family is a kindergarten teacher, kindergarten teacher. He doesn't have a replacement. He works in a kindergarten in the municipality. He doesn't have a sidekick in the group; that means he's alone with 26 children from morning to night. Well, don't tell us, Secretary of State, that this result is 13 years of Fidesz government after the fourth two-thirds. They have practically full authority, whatever they do, whatever they do, whatever they rape; if they have to, the kata tax type will be abolished overnight by the next morning. Well, don't tell me the result is how good it is, because then the teachers have to go. And then you said earlier, Mr. Secretary, of course you contradicted that, because here you've been disproved by this class warrior thing. [[Bence Rétvári: This one is stung too.]] I'm sure there are some suggestions. You said earlier that we can only criticize, we have no proposals. Tamás Mellár told you this morning that the opposition had a 100-point educational proposal at conflict level on how to correct education in Hungary today. This has been discussed by opposition parties with more than fifty organisations. So please don't tell me we don't have any suggestions. You're right, it doesn't matter how many suggestions we have, I almost told you what the government is doing with it, it's ignoring it. [[Defiance.]] Government [[Bence Rétvári: Yes, it's nicer.]] It's blowing the hell out of these opposition amendment proposals. Well, they still do, but you guys are sweeping everything out of power. Then let's take a look at this performance review. That's the other thing I just don't understand, but help me then, because I'm sure I don't understand. So it's good that there's disciplinary action now, because then it can be more nuanced to punish [[Bence Rétvári: Graditude!]] 'Cause before that, it was obviously mandatory to fire everyone immediately. [[Bence Rétvári: Or do nothing.]] if he made a mistake. [[István Hollik: Black or white.]] But I'm sorry, so there's no such thing. In the past, it was not mandatory to fire someone immediately, but, let's say, the head of the institution was able to consider the forms of warning that he should introduce. What you're trying to tell us is that this has nothing to do with revenge, with the government's nicely slashed revenge, but how good it is, because then you can cut down all the teachers more nuancedly. [[Bence Rétvári: What????? Class warrior! Class warrior!]] If you don't give me God, let's say they object to your educational law. I gave you an example earlier, but then I'll tell you how much this is, and it's also related to benchmarking; so how real revenge is what you want to use benchmarking and this disciplinary procedure for. I'll tell you, because maybe you weren't Secretary Maruzsa at the time, this is two weeks old news. In Balatonalmádi, a young history teacher was fired with immediate effect, who is now graduating from his class, who, by the way, was a member of the Teachers' Union and was a local organizer of the teachers' bans there. According to official justification, he was fired because his professional rating was 2 percent below the central level. How interesting. So he was the teacher who sang with the children in the court, who was in contact with the unions; who, by the way, had a recently born child, and his wife was also an educator who was fired immediately, referring to this point system or some kind of point system. [[6.30]] So, what you're saying is that there's no connection between the point system you've come up with, the benchmarking and revenge? ! I think this example is exactly the opposite. Then the other thing I didn't understand in this and István Hollik's speech, really, is that parental rights are not violated. Well, how can it not be my right as a parent if my kids don't have a teacher? If my children's future cannot be assured by the state in schools, which is the duty of the state to the dog? Then my parental rights will be violated in this entire system. There's no point in persuading each other because we're certainly not going to convince each other. Then it was another news a few days ago because you said how much you paid for the education, that a school teacher received 5 thousand forints from the state to buy the end-of-the-year award books for the class students. He asked how to buy a reward book for six students out of 5,000 forints. And it reminded me that when I was a kid, we always got a reward book in elementary school, too, so I brought it in to show the Secretary of State of Retvári what a great reward book I got. [[He's lifting it up.]] I received Boris Izjumsky's great novel Reds. These are Soviet soldiers swimming in a rubber boat; I don't know what's in it because I didn't read it. [[Depreciation, interruptions.]] It's written that it's Szabó Timea 5/A for an excellent study result. I brought him in because it's only 25 forints. I thought I'd help you 25 times, let's say, I don't know, six... [[Defiance.]] [[Defiance.]] But even a little more expensive, let's say 200 forints is enough to actually solve the reward book of six students. I got another good reward book, I'll tell you about it. I can't think of the title, but I remember the contents, there was a brief summary at the beginning: it was a fascinatingly exciting investigation into who stole the two brand-new shock absorbers from Sasha's garage. (Faintness.) This is what I got as a reward book, a ten-year-old girl. [[Gergely Arató: It was a realistic novel at least.]] It's for a girl like you. Now, you, too, in the current system, will be able to present such books to students; I think these books of 25-30 forints may still be available in the antiquariums. So what I would like to say is that the reason why we are ending this talk about funding education is because here we have a round pretzel of how the financing of education, as a proportion of GDP, has evolved since 2002. Mr.Orbán once said, in reply to a teacher's letter, that, of course, there is no fence of sausages yet, but we must always relate to the performance of the economy how much we can spend. Now, for ten years there has been economic growth here, EU funds have fallen into Hungary. It would have been a lot of money before, not only to turn it back into education, but also to raising the teacher's wages within it. Let us see that in 2002 we spent 5.4 per cent of GDP on education; 4.6 per cent in 2010; 3.9 per cent in 2013; 3.8 per cent in 2020. Thus, the amount spent on education from 5.4 per cent in 2002 to 3.8 per cent in 2020. This means that despite the growth of the economy, you have not increased or at least kept the money spent on education in proportion to GDP, but even reduced it. So Viktor Orbán lied when he said that education was always spent in line with the performance of the economy. It was the other way around: despite the growth in the economy, you have reduced the cost of education. This is not just a crime, Mr Secretary of State and fellow Members, this is treason! You betrayed our children's future, betrayed our education. Looks like they're in trouble right now. They're surprised it's been a year and a half. there are persistent protests from teachers, and that you have failed to share workers, living or working in this area once or for the first time, as doctors were previously turned against nurses. Now it has not been possible to turn students against teachers or drive a wedge between them, because the students have been standing up for their teachers ever since. It hurts you so much, so you get all the protesting students and teachers dirty by being left-wing, serialist, and I don't know, just because they just want enough money to buy fruit for the kids at the end of the month. So what I'm suggesting is that, after this status law has nothing to do with a teacher's wage increase, the Dialogue-Greens and I are suggesting that this law of vengeance be revoked. Let us start discussing new foundations for the situation of Hungarian education; let us figure out how to really improve this terrible situation, and what is needed in the first place is to withdraw this law of vengeance. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2023-06-16-374	Thank you, Congresswoman, and thank you very much for remembering the word "injuration" after a long hesitation. [[Defiance.]] And that's who. I give the floor to Zoltán Varga of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2023-06-16-375	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. Well, the thing is, I see you're in love with this benchmarking system, and it's a good thing it wasn't introduced in your case, for example. I'd like to open a parentheses here. You know, the biggest fear of educators about the benchmarking system is that it will be used as a whip, and those who are not faithful, loyal party soldiers will obviously be judged completely differently than those who are. But back to you, if it were a benchmarking system, you would have failed this morning. [[Bence Rétvári: Why?]] One for one. I'll tell you why. And you're right about that dilemma that exists now, believe your own eyes, or believe the other one. This dilemma also occurred to me; in my wife's case, let's say, it never occurs to me to believe in her. [[Bence Rétvári: Finally, we agree on something.]] But you're on the verge. And I have to admit, when you said I don't know, you remember, because I can see that sometimes you've been in and out of this meeting today because you have this memory of the education system before 2010 that teachers were waiting for a paycheck, but they didn't get... [[Bence Rétvári: That's right.]] Yeah, he's saying it's true right now. [[Bence Rétvári: Teachers said so.]] At the time, I was thinking that I was going to make sure with my own eyes what was going on about this. There's this thing called Google that you don't know very well, although we know you're very fond of digital education; I'll also talk about it, so I put these three or four words in Google, and what God gives you is that he's got four hits all of a sudden. I'll read it to you quickly; I wonder what you'll say. [[Sándor Berki will be replaced in the notary seat by Dezső Believing.]] 3 February 2013 The teachers didn't get their paycheck by the deadline. The Klebelsberg Institutional Center explains in a letter. 8 June 2015 KLIK hasn't paid the class teachers since March in Cegléd. This was also acknowledged by the head of the district of Ceglédi Panorama. 2 July 2015 Because of KLIK's debt, more and more people are in a tight spot, and there are teachers who have not been paid since May. [[6.40]] 4 December 2015 There's a teacher who's lost his salary now, hallelujah, I'd say, the others have to wait until at least Monday, so there's no rent, no Santa packs for the kids. But some people got worse because KLIK has been delaying wages for several months. Mr. Secretary, tell me what this one-two-three-four date has in common. I'll tell you, it's not even before 2010, it's after 2010. I don't know, confirm or deny, if that's not true, I'm convinced that this happened under your government. So, Secretary of State, dear, if you've dated these articles by 2010, you're either wrong or nota bene, you're lying, and you're obviously gonna have to make a decision. The other thing we talked about so much, and Congresswoman Timea Szabó also mentioned, is the leadership of educators. And obviously, of course, everyone got their attention when you said how good it was that they didn't travel the children. And it is indeed good that children are not being transported from Debrecen, for example, to Berettyó's new village or from Berettyó's new village to Sáránd, or we could choose any other such target. Well, it's not the only thing, because it's not just the teachers who have this so-called guidance system. Well, it's the same with doctors, Mr. Secretary. In fact, it's the same thing with the women in charge now. In fact, when you invented hot water, you're basically trying to solve the shortage of professionals, the shortage of staff, and in your opinion, Secretary of State, why? Because before 2010, the ugly Ferenc Gyurcsány merged his eyebrows? Do you think that's why? Because I don't think so, but according to the teachers, and not according to the women in charge, and not according to the doctors. All of this happened because, technically, apart from looting the country in trade, they don't care about anything else. So they derailed health care, obviously disrupted education, and people simply signaled it to you with their feet. Some of the professionals have migrated from the country, they are now in the Netherlands, in England, Sweden, I have several acquaintances, even relatives, who are in one of the countries, and who are having a good time, they tell you, on the other hand, a lot of people, when they have to choose a career, say that, well, I'm not crazy, or, son, well, don't be crazy, so don't choose a career like this, they won't even pay you, they're gonna fuck you up, they're gonna fuck you up. Well, you want to be a teacher for 180,000 forints? Well, that's what I'm talking about. So it's when you're doing this some kind of NER XXI. He sees it as a centuries-old achievement and tells him and bangs his breasts, but, please, how good, because we helped the students not to travel, but to travel to the teachers, they don't care if they travel a stop or three; let's say, one of the stops is on Hajduszoboszló, and the third is on Szolnok, but, well, travel! But it's not really about that, it's about your inability to govern. They're not very good at steering, not at all. They've had 13 years to solve this situation. After all, they said that before 2010, everything was bad, and after 10, the best of all worlds came. The only problem is that doctors, nurses, teachers and women in charge prove otherwise, and it is obviously true, and families say the same thing, because they say that Hungarian health is not good. The children also say that Hungarian education is not good. And obviously that's true. You talked about digitalization, Mr. Secretary. You have the truth that there really are digital signs in many schools. Debrecen is a big city, a XXI. It's a century-old, developing city with a digital sign in high schools in Debrecen. Thank you very much, Prime Minister, thank you very much, Honourable Government, there is only one problem that 90 percent of the digital signs are already broken, and schools and the KLIK have no money to repair and replace. So the digital signs are set in one corner and I won't tell you which high school it is, but if you think we'll be happy to go to this high school together, and we'll look at these brilliant digital signs, and these digital signs are barely wiped off by the plebejus, because there's just no cleaning staff at school, and I have to add that there's no photocopying paper at school again. And there's no digital sign. In fact, there's no proper sign either, because they say there's a digital sign, only it doesn't work. In this regard, I would otherwise have a constructive proposal, and if you accept it now, I would even risk voting for this law for you at the expense of my faction. You're telling me that there will be two legs for the teacher's wage increase, and there will be one that the government will give you hallelujah, our dear leader, and what shall I say? Brussels, who has been stopped somewhere, has somehow stopped halfway wrong, so the money tap has been closed, so the other leg is given by Brussels. And you, unfortunately the other leg doesn't work, so you can't raise the wages of teachers. I have a constructive suggestion. Let's leave this HUF 800 billion Brussels money now! Start the payment, the one you said the government would pay for all of this. I think the teachers will agree if they don't get the full wage increase, but the government foot. I'm telling you, I'm telling you. That the teachers will say thank you, we accept that. What do you think of that, Mr. Secretary? Do you think there will be a teacher who will insist that he will only accept the wage increase if the Brussels money is included? Because I don't think there will be. So this is your chance to prove how patriotic you are, how important education is to you, how serious you are about your own word, how serious you were at all about the promise that I have to add to the budget, not even a penny. Well, what are we talking about, people? ! Give the money they wanted to give to the teachers, and then we'll do something with the EU money. I must add that there will be no EU money, and we know that very well, the wonderful Plebeius government has sorted out the fate of this, even when you have been stolen, even when you have been examined with a magnifying glass to see whether you are stealing or not. Stolen! They're stealing right now! So, if we look now at how much we should give to teachers to raise wages, how much is 800 billion forints, the EU leg; well, in a week they will give 800 billion to Tiborcz and Mészáros, and if anyone else stands in line, Garanchi or someone else, even he will throw a little bit of what he wants to do with a yacht. So don't tell me that otherwise, because of the EU, they can't raise wages for teachers. Of course they can. They will receive the EU wage increase in 2030 or 2026 when we come with our government, because we will give it to them, believe me, so it will be fine. So, the problem here is not small, and obviously, sooner or later, there's the problem, Mr. Secretary, how do you catch him in the act, how do I put it? Your performance is converging to zero in terms of credibility, governance, memory, because they don't remember things anymore. And you, of course, have a past; I must add that you do not have a future. Allow me, however, to say a few words about your true relationship with education, and to give you an example in Debrecen, the International School of Debrecen; I still have a few minutes. I could accept what you said, Mr. Secretary of State, that you are practically introducing this vengeance law not to avenge, of course, but to create a uniform, just pedagogical career, a new educational model where the differences that, for example, geographical differences, or possibly financial differences, disappear. [[6.50]] What do we see in Debrecen compared to that? In Debrecen, you first of all told the mayor that an unfortunate loyal party soldier of Fidesz was unable, personally and as a municipality of Debrecen, to run the city schools. I must add that Debrecen was a huge school town after all. And compared to that, they'll nationalize all the local government schools in Debrecen. Then a few wild-book months passed, and they told the mayor of Debrecen that it would be good if they built an international school for the most beautiful part of Debrecen, which is a wooden iron ring thing, because it was built with public money, the municipality will keep it up, with the support of the municipality, but it will work like a private school, and you will have to ask for money for the tuition, not even a little, several million forints, and it will be possible to achieve that practically a narrow privileged circle of this school can benefit from the blessed XXI. Using his 100th-century achievements. So there is no such thing anywhere in the world, neither in Hungary, it is a Debrecen peculiarity, it has happened. Now we are talking about the fact that I do not think Debrecen, let alone Hungary, but the state-of-the-art school of Europe was built there, in the most beautiful part of the Great Forest, in the quietest part of the forest, on 5 hectares, with 7200 square meters of useful ground space. This five-acre school has about 200 students, 43 teachers and 20 office workers. As long as there is 2 square meters for a student in Hungary, 36 square meters for this school! Separate service cars bring and take students. The children of Fidesz party soldiers are sitting there, and big businessmen who are connected to Fidesz are the children of those. There is a missing student in Debrecen, because we also fought to have some kind of application system. Compared to this, the schools in Debrecen have no chalk, no toilet paper and no printing paper. This is the reality, this is your wretched obsession in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in opposition lines.]]
u2023-06-16-376	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Brenner Koloman of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-06-16-377	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, For the 16th hour, we have been debating the law that has a significant impact on the life of the pedagogical society, and I think it is also time that I set out an alternative education policy model on behalf of the Jobbik-Conservatives, which virtually not only responds to what the bill, which we are debating here, does not respond to which we are discussing in a negative way, and what we should establish a national consensus on in our opinion, on which, moreover, our conservative political community has proposed a national round table many months ago. Here, Mr. Secretary of State, the Fidesz faction has not come. Why would that be important anyway? On the one hand, there are elements in relation to a professional law that our political community could imagine without further ado, if the pedagogical society were to have additional rights and additional values in relation to the status of civil servant so far. This law does not contain the opposite, so we will reject it. Some of the stories that are written by the law and that make the lives of the teachers miserable, we conservatives consider teachers to be responsible intellectuals and non-dismissable servants, as follows from the letter of this law and from the spirit of this law. I would like to mention, first of all, the benchmarking system. Our basic education policy also agrees that it is necessary to monitor and monitor the quality of education on a regular basis, and no one will dispute that. But what is in this law, and that it is usually the director appointed by the Fidesz people who ultimately decides with a rather subjective opinion that a colleague should receive, let's say, a salary reduction, we reject it. However, there is a great need to modernise the system of supervision and to build a supportive system of supervision to support the work of teachers in our country, but this would be very necessary, but it is not included in the law on the contrary. Moreover, the financial appreciation of teachers' colleagues is one of the most important issues that my fellow Members have spoken about in this debate. To do this, I must once again state in the name of the Jobbik-Conservatives that the value choice is how much of the common money of Hungarian taxpayers, which we call a budget, is spent by a given government on education and, in particular, on the salaries of teachers. We Jobbik-Conservatives have long proposed a conservative turn in education policy in Klebelsberg, which would mean that we should not spend the current GDP-to-GDP ratio from all our common tax forints on education, but, in time, we should reach 8 percent, because that would be a real and Count Klebelsberg's memory of real education policy, in our opinion. Remember, at that time, how much a teacher earned compared to the income and pay conditions of the various sections of society, and what this looks like in the year 2023 of the Lord! The situation is tragic, my fellow Members of the Fidesz, and the situation is tragic in Hungary's comparison, so that, compared to the Central European countries, the wages of Hungarian teachers are not to be said. They can only dream of making as much money as their Czech or Slovenian colleagues. I'm not talking about the Austrian wage level, but I could, because I was born pretty close to the Austrian border, at least four kilometers away. Technically, I think that one of the most important figures of the past 30 years, and from this last 30 years, Viktor Orbán and Fidesz have governed for 17 years, and Balliberal governments have governed for 12 years, so shake hands, and it is practically common ground for all of them that, more than 30 years after the change of regime, Hungarian citizens are looking for one of the lowest wages in the European Union, and within that, the social and material appreciation of the pedagogical society is very, very low. This is your shared responsibility. It is possible to point fingers at each other, they do so to this day, shame and shame, while the Hungarian pedagogical society is there that virtually there are hardly any candidates for teacher training. Speaking of teaching courses, and here, as a former university leader, I would like to add a few points to this, who participated in the accreditation tasks of the entire Bologna process. It was a perfectly legitimate suggestion, and the fact that the government then restored the dual teacher training was a perfectly normal reaction to the fact that, indeed, when the teacher master classes were introduced, it did not work well in this form. No one's arguing that. However, the fact that there is, in practice, a very, very continuous decline in the whole teacher education system in the subject structure that applies to the profession and, of course, I am not talking about the fact that teachers' colleagues are trained well to the reality of the school and Hungarian society, because they obviously need it, but it is certain that over the past decade the proportion of professional subjects in pedagogical education has decreased steadily, and that is wrong. [[7.00]] And if I add to that now that your latest decision is to remove the language skills criterion from their university records, then this will actually lead to tragedy in the medium term. Then let me give you a few thoughts about one of the veterinary horses of the Hungarian education system, namely the education of foreign languages. I always say that not everyone who grew up bilingual can be as lucky as myself, my mother tongue is German. I think that the Hungarian education system teaches foreign languages in a relatively high number of hours on an international scale. But with what efficiency? And that, my honourable fellow Members, is not the fault of the teachers, but the lack of an approach to the fact that children must receive authentic native-language impulses with greater intensity. In addition, Article 21 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 provides that: There are very good ways to do this in the first century, since it is necessary to integrate not only in foreign language education, but also in our opinion, the tools and results of digitalisation. The digital table is not the solution, Mr. Secretary of State, because it can now be said that they represent almost outdated techniques. Technical progress in this IT sphere is so fast that it is very difficult to track it in the education system, and I accept that. But it is quite certain that even when the Covid epidemic was closed, it was clear that a significant proportion of young Hungarians and children were unable to participate in online education of the quality that we believe to be covered by the 21st century. Hungarian citizens in a Member State of the European Union deserve it because they did not have the means to do so, especially if even their parents, let's say, had to work online during this period. One very important issue among the ideas of the Jobbik-Conservatives on education policy in Klebelsberg is to put the school back much better into local communities. Right now, schools are a sort of hermetically isolated area where you can barely set foot, say, normal mortal. In our opinion, because we believe in local traditions and local communities, it is a wrong policy. By the way, in the curriculum, we would entrust the teaching and educating colleagues with the local tradition they wish to incorporate into the education system, as this is very important. In different regions, it is not possible to set up a set, virtually to the last author, a system of criteria, which would be in line with, say, the expectations of children or young adults in Szeged and Sopron, to say two ends of the country, and I am attached to both, because I went to Szeged and was born in Sopron. This is what I think, in fact, that we need to integrate these local traditions much more into the education system, to open schools for local communities, for example, this is a very important educational policy goal, in our opinion. Then let me give you a list of really neural points, such as the transition between kindergarten and elementary school. This is one of the key elements of the Better-Conservatives education policy programme, where we have to admit that this period of children's development, let's say, is a very sensitive period up to the age of 5-8, where the development of individual children can be very different. So it cannot be unified, gleichschalted, practically building this whole system by telling you that from 31 August this child is now entering first class, but we should create a very, very flexible system here, in our opinion, between kindergarten and, say, the first two classes of primary school, where individual developments could be much better tracked by the system, rather than making individual decisions about whether a child is now a school mature, for example, or not. This is a very, very important question in our opinion. It is very important that we also have a policy debate on this. Then the next question concerns how the entire maintenance system should be transformed. I have repeatedly explained that neither pre-2010 conditions are ideal in that, indeed, the richer municipalities, which, let's say, had higher tax revenues, could provide higher quality education for children living in a given settlement than a school and educator working in a poor settlement. I think that a responsible government and a civil government in normal Hungary should make sure that the schools of smaller settlements provide education to Hungarian citizens in at least the same capacity as a relatively rich, larger settlement. It's a political goal of a government, obviously it has to be. But what you have done with the over-centralized KLIK system reflects, in effect, another bad political idea in which you have now stepped back after two or three years, when all the disadvantages of this over-centralized system have been fully proven. But here, too, we think it would be worth examining the educational structure here at a regional level. Therefore, according to Jobbik-Conservatives, we should also jointly decide on what type of school, corresponding to the structure of the settlement, we should establish a school system appropriate to the sociological composition of society. This would be a very serious professional task, and this could also be a point of break-out of the Hungarian education policy system, which we would definitely need to clarify in a professional debate, so that, as any international example shows, in the longer term there could be such a serious leap-like development in the Hungarian education system, and I always mean the entire educational spectrum, from kindergarten to university, which, in our opinion, is very necessary to implement in order to achieve the 21st century. In the first century, in a Member State of the European Union, Hungarian citizens can acquire all the knowledge and skills needed for a balanced, happy and complete life. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in opposition lines.]]
u2023-06-16-378	Thank you, Congressman. We're gonna have two-minute comments. I give the floor to Tamás Bellozó, from the group of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2023-06-16-379	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to the Secretary of State for what he has responded to me. On the one hand, either you didn't listen to what I said, either you said this as a direct rhetorical catch, or you just said it as a prank, or you're both helping me out here. But what I told you, if you had listened, I started with the fact that, on the one hand, in Finland, there is no sausage fence based on educational numbers, but it is still one of the best education systems in the world. You didn't deny that. Being in the top ten of all the countries in the world is not that shameful. On the other hand, he gave an example, which shows that the saying that we can only say bad things about the Hungarian education system and that he does not deserve it, and let's just say good things, cannot justify it, Mr. State Secretary. By the way, we believe that everything the government has to do with the Hungarian education system is wrong. What poor educators are still trying to hammer together, for example, by adding amazing extra energy to the children's competition and training outside of classes, how it works. But he said, as a deterrent example, that the number of candidates in Finland has fallen from 13,000 to 8,000 in a country of 5.5 million. Is this a deterrent example for Hungary, where the number of admissions this year is 3357? [[Bence Rétvári: Number of candidates.]] Then you'll correct me. But if you show me, Mr Secretary of State, that this means that 16,000 people should have applied in Hungary in the country twice that size, compared with 3,300 people, this is simply ridiculous, Mr Secretary of State. Thank you very much.
u2023-06-16-380	Thank you. I give Gergely Arató, from the DK Group, the opportunity to make a two-minute comment. Here you go, Congressman. [[7.10]]
u2023-06-16-381	Thank you very much. Mr President, Hopefully, I will soon have the opportunity to speak in more detail on professional issues, but I would just like to respond to two wonderful forms of speaking for Mr Secretary of State. One of them is that he likes to talk about class fighting here. Otherwise, it is strange that a budget debate is about what is important to who has priorities, what is important to them, what is important to education, or, where appropriate, the promotion of competition, football, health, or, where appropriate, the organisation of large international competitions. This is only in the sense of class struggle, which is more important, either class 3 b or the medical department of the hospital, or the NB3 football class. In this sense, class struggle, but otherwise it is not, it is called responsible budget planning. And what the Secretary of State says is that the policy of this government is to give more money in all areas; well, there is already such a party in Hungary, the, eternal life, free beer, a much more concrete formulation of the same idea. The other thing the Secretary of State is saying is that they liberated universities by giving them to Fidesz foundations. You know, they freed universities like the Red Army used to free watches, so they freed universities. They took it, they took it, and they made it private property and party property. I'll give you professional details later. [[Applause in the opposition benches.]]
u2023-06-16-382	Thank you. I give the floor to Zoltán Vajda, from the MSZP Group, for a normal comment. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-06-16-383	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. It's 15 minutes, isn't it, Mr. President? [[For signal:]] Yeah. Thank you very much. Then I can elaborate on the Hungarian education system for a longer time. I thought of my comment on three completely separate blocks to edit. First, I will give you a summary of the problems of the Hungarian education system, in the second part I also brought here a small literary block, and in the third part I will respond to the lies raised by the Secretary of State. But let's do a situation assessment. It's been 15-16 hours, if I count it, and four of the 135 brave puppets are in the room in fidesz colors, and the KDNP isn't even here right now, and the brave secretary of state is talking in the back. My comment then consists of three parts. In the first, I will talk about the problems of the Hungarian education system. Here I draw your attention to the Secretary of State, who has come to his senses to pay attention to the fact that there is an important part of the education system that you do not know very well, artificial intelligence. There are also very serious challenges with regard to the IA in the education system, which you are currently creating, I am sure you will find it difficult to deal with. To illustrate to you, my dear Secretary of State, bearing the last name of Rétvári, that artificial intelligence can shed light on the interesting things that I have now entered into my laptop on ChatGPT in this moment on what is wrong with the Hungarian education system, and I will now share with you what the ChatGPT has said, because I appreciate your time and manage your precious time, so I will share with you what ChatGPT has said: Problems and criticisms related to the Hungarian education system can be approached from different perspectives. It is important to note that the statements presented below are generalizations and do not always apply to all schools or students. The challenges related to the education system may be the following only while generating the answers of ChatGPT. The first is scarce resources and infrastructure. There is often a lack of adequate resources and infrastructure in the education system, buildings in poor condition can occur in school, adequate teaching tools, laboratories and technical equipment may be lacking, making it more difficult to teach effectively and to develop students in a balanced manner. The second problem, according to ChatGPT artificial intelligence, is system problems. There are problems in the education system that are structural and difficult to solve. For example, the graduation system has been a subject of criticism for a long time, since many have considered that exams are too theoretical and do not always reflect students' real knowledge and abilities. The third problem, according to ChatGPT's artificial intelligence, is the Hungarian education system: low wages and the migration of teachers. The low wages of teachers and the high workload are a serious problem in the Hungarian education system. Due to underpayment and difficult working conditions, many teachers choose to leave the education sector, which in the long term can have a negative impact on the quality of teaching and the development of students. The fourth problem in the education system is the responses generated by the ChatGPT: rigidity and less interactive teaching methods. The education system is based on more traditional and often frontal education methods in which students are passive actors. Interactive problem-solving and creative teaching methods are less widespread, which in practice means that students are less active and have less critical thinking and problem-solving skills. And finally, the fifth, as I see it, is the last problem here, which the ChatGPT artificial intelligence has just generated for the problems of the Hungarian education system: over-competence. The educational system has developed a strong competitive environment in which students are constantly ranked and evaluated. This often puts excessive stress and pressure on students, which can negatively affect their health and their learning motivation. In addition, schools place great emphasis on entrance exams and good results, which can sometimes put a deeper understanding of learning in the background. The last thought of ChatGPT, if this can be regarded as a thought, is the answer generated by artificial intelligence to the problems of the Hungarian education system, the last two sentences: these are the general criticisms and problems that they raise about the Hungarian education system. However, it is important to note that changes and initiatives are also taking place in the field of education to address problems, and there are a number of teachers and institutions who are doing outstanding work in teaching and developing students. So, Mr. State Secretary, these were not my thoughts, but they spoke of the Hungarian education system through artificial intelligence. As I mentioned, my 15-minute comment was divided into three separate blocks. I told you the first, the second, as I indicated to you, I also inserted a literary block into my speech. During the protests, where your name has always been mentioned with love, so I say that Rétvári's last name, your name was mentioned many times at the protests, yesterday you and your dear colleagues were welcome in Kossuth Square, for some reason they didn't come. For example, one that has been recited many times during the protests was the poem by János Arany: The Bards of Wales, which I now share with you here in the Chamber of Parliament. King Edward, King of England Step on his pale horse: Let me see how much it's worth. The Welsh province. Is Vane a river and a land good there? Is grass in her pastures fat? Used by watering: The party brother? And the people, the God-given people, If you're so happy to go As I wish, and as an asshole, What kind of yoke do you drive? Your Majesty! ♪ Your crown is truly crowned ♪ The Most Beautiful Diamond of Velsz: Earth, river, good grazing, You'll find mountain valleys in it. And the people, the God-given people She's so happy about it, Sire. His huts are all silent, like So many sheeps. King Edward, King of England Step on his pale horse: Wherever he went, there was silence around him. And a silent province. Montgomery is the name of the castle, Where he flew that night; Montgomery, lord of the castle, He's buying the king. ♪ Blind and fish ♪ ♪ What a good bite ♪ Eye-to-mouth stimulation, An emergency group, a hundred servants, How can I look at it; And all that this beautiful island It's a food-drink room; ♪ And all that wine boils ♪ It's too far in the sea. Your lords, your lords! ♪ No one ♪ You want a drink for me? Your lords, your lords! ...you dogs! Don't Eduard live? ♪ Blind and fish ♪ ♪ And what's under the sky ♪ It's nice to have an eye-to-mouth, That's what I see: but devil here. Everything inside is noble. My lords, my lords, you rascals! Don't Eduard live? Where is he who sings my deeds - Let's have a Welsh axe! All the warriors look at each other, The guest is with you, gentlemen; On their cheeks like fear, The anger is pale. Word breaks in, voice breaks out, Breath is broken. - Door kills a white dove, Autumn axe rising. Here he is, king, who have done your work Elzengi, say the old man; ♪ And a gun ringing ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ As soon as he hits the strings. * Gun ringing, hello ringing, The sun goes into blood, The night beast is gathering to the smell of blood: You did this, cool! Cut off by thousands of our people, As a cross, That weeping gleaner who lives: Cool, you did this. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, On the bonfire! Out! Very hard - Here you go, Edward. Ha! We need a softer song; And a young axe enters. - Ah! - Ah! ♪ The evening wind is soft ♪ to the Gulf of Milford; Weeping of Virgins, Widows She's complaining. [[7.20]] Don't give birth to a prisoner, virgin. Mother Don't breast-feed a baby. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, And the king warns. ♪ And he's reached ♪ The bonfire. ♪ But reckless and uninvited ♪ He's gonna come up with a third; Kobzan, the song sounds like you, That's what they say: In the battle that has fallen the waist-- Now listen to me, Edward. Your name will be pronounced with glory, There's no such thing as a Welsh axe. The memory of her cries on the lute still - Now listen to me, Edward. Every song on your head is a curse, The song of the Welsh ax. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'll see. ♪ He'll give you an order ♪ King's terrible: On the bonfire, who defies, All singers with you! His servants are speeding apart, Country Serin, tova. That's what happened in Montgomery. The famous feast. - And King Edvard, King of England He rides his pale horse; There's a sky above the ground: The Welsh province. Five hundred, that's right, he went singing Into the grave of flames, the axe of Welsh: But he couldn't say To live, Edward. - Ha, ha! What's the matter? ♪ what a night song ♪ On the streets of London? I'll hang the lord-major, If I'm upset about anything! ♪ Stand silent silence ♪ ♪ Be your wings inside ♪ Nor shall they be heard, nor shall they be heard: He speaks to his head, he speaks to him. King can't sleep. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Ha, ha! pre whistle, drum, music! Let's hear a trombone: ♪ His curses fall in my ears ♪ The Welsh feast... But beyond music, beyond whistle-drums, Through the alarm horn: Five hundred singing out loud The martyrs' song. [[Applause.]] Thank you very much. I was able to use exactly two thirds of the 15 minutes given to my comment, as I said, I thought of three equal blocks. At the first, I summarized the problems that ChatGPT said about the Hungarian education system. At the second, I gave you this literary outlook, and I shared with you one of the poems that they said a lot at the protests. The third one, although I see you're about to have a nap, but I'd like to share it with you, as you brought me into the conversation when you accused me that we were working to keep the EU money from arriving. [[His phone's ringing.]] I'm sure George Soros is calling, but I'm not answering my phone right now. [[Defiance.]] Mr. Secretary, when your mouth moves, you're basically lying. My idea is that you, Fidesz-KDNP or Fidesz-KDNP, are the government that is doing everything in its power to ensure that our EU funds do not arrive in our country. You understand, my position is that you are working with all your might to avoid the arrival of those resources, and here, by the way, there is an identity between us that deserves my beloved country. But let us accept that the decision-makers in Brussels, who are watching over EU taxpayers' money, are subject to certain conditions. I'm not a lawyer, I'm an economist, and I can put these conditions on about three topics for myself. One is that there should be democracy, a functioning rule of law, and that they should not be stolen. About these certain conditions, milestones, in my eyes, they're trying to achieve these three things. I'm not surprised that there are these conditions now, I'm telling you, but rather why they didn't have them before, or why they didn't take them seriously. But what is essential is that you, the government, have recently become clear to me that you have done everything you can and will do to ensure that the EU funds we deserve do not arrive in my beloved country. What I see from your administration, from the last 10-12-13 years, is that they're always looking for an attackable party, an enemy, a one-on-one enemy, a one-on-one enemy. I do not mention who they were, they have just found Brussels, which is, of course, a beautiful Belgian city, the European Union, as such, they do not like to attack with such an expression, because my country's fellow countrymen from the European Union have a very positive experience, whatever propaganda they have, I would like to believe that this remains. You're busy, you're attacking Brussels, and you're connecting two things that don't belong together. It is completely insolence that you are unable to provide the national budget with a wage increase rightly demanded by teachers and expected from the Union, or, as you say, Brussels. So they find a theme, connect two unrelated things, and that's what they do. You have now put everything on the table so that these sums, the money we deserve, will not come to my country. I can reason why I'm right, and I'm just arguing from the point of view of the budget, why I'm right. I am right that you are working to keep them from arriving, because, for example, the European Commission did not decide to drive out the special taxes, even though it was waiting for their increase, which, of course, will pass on to the Hungarian people, and will increase inflation and become more expensive. I am right that you are working to ensure that EU funds do not arrive, because the budget is being negotiated in June and not, let us say, in November, on the basis of an approved accounts. I also know that I am right that you are working to avoid the arrival of EU funds for my country, because instead of talking about, say, 270 start-up new EU projects, Minister János Lázár has published a list of 270 cancelled developments. And the last argument, which is most telling, is that you are working on not having EU funds, that Minister Martin the Great is not talking about the fact that the working capital is super good, but we can't give up EU money, it's coming soon. No, he's not talking about that, he's talking about replacing EU funds with working capital. So what you're saying is, of course, a lie. You are working to ensure that EU funds do not arrive. Really, when do EU funds arrive? Thank you so much for letting me tell you. My 15 minutes just passed. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the opposition benches.]]
u2023-06-16-384	Thank you. Before anyone asks why I let the Welsh cleavers through, most of all because I saw that Mr. Secretary of State enjoyed the way of the performance. [[Bence Rétvári: That's right.]] And so are my fellow opposition Members, so this one is gone. I give the floor to Gergely Arató, from the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-06-16-385	Thank you very much. Dear House, If you'll excuse me, I'll stick with the prose. The fact is that we are really still at the beginning of the debate, but it is a little while after all, it is worth looking at with a little professional eye at what we are talking about. I promised in my two-minute comment just now that I would talk a little bit about the social policy implications of what is happening in education today. The fact is that, in fact, when we evaluate the education policy of the last 12 years, there are several planes. The first of these is what the government side thinks about education, the role it sees in education. I must tell you that it is quite clear that this image of education that exists in the government is one how should I put it delicately? , considers the controlling, controlling and political education function of education to be the most important. By the way, his social image was a legitimate, existing, let's say, a hundred years ago widely accepted idea, or rather 120-130, that it was the job of education to teach children what they could fit into society with. But we've been through this. In fact, in some sense, in Klebelsberg's time, although I judge his life's work more controversially than my fellow Member on the right, this may be a traditional left-wing policy that thinks more about education than simply being a means of re-production of society. [[7.30]] We believe, we believe, that education has a very important role to play in ensuring social mobility, helping the individual to succeed in breaking out of his social situation. We also consider the role of education to promote social mobility to be important, so it also has a catching up, balancing function in a social sense. You don't think it's important. This would not be a problem, because it could also be conservative, on a conservative basis, to pursue an effective and effective education policy, but that is not what you are doing, and you are not pursuing an education policy. There was, by the way, a kind of consensus, a national consensus. It's too bad we haven't talked about this enough and said it, clearly enough. About 1985-2010, from the period before the regime change to the second regime change, until the fall of democracy, there was a consensus on the functions of education. We were all thinking about the social Democratic side, the conservative side, the liberal side, which, by the way, included excellent education politicians of Fidesz at the time, how to achieve some goals in education. We have all seen the need for a significant extension of education in order to make Hungary competitive in comparison to the education of the previous period. There is a need for more students to go to high school, then to go to university, to increase the intellectual capital that the country accumulates, because XX. At the end of the century, then at the end of the 21st century. In the first century, only one country where this intellectual capital is available can succeed. The second was a very important principle, in which we all agreed that education has a balancing, chance-creating function, that it is our job to improve opportunities for all students in education, whatever family it comes from, whatever social situation it comes from, from any part of the country, from a small or large settlement. There was a thought that education should be entrusted to those who know how to do it: the daily affairs, organisation, content, methods of education for schools, teachers, faculty, and the organisation and management of education for local authorities, who know what the needs are, what the expectations are, who have daily feedback from the population and even the actors in education. And there was a fourth very important principle, plus one, that there was also a strong common position on the modernisation of education. We said it wasn't the same and it wasn't in the same way to teach XX. At the end of the 20th century, and in particular at the end of the 21st century, C.E., just like this 20th century. It happened in the early 20th century, because the world is changing, other challenges have to be met, and the environment around students is changing. This was the great social consensus, the great political consensus that existed, it did exist in Hungary for 20-25 years, while we had many debates. I was sitting here, just like the secretary of state, sitting here in long educational debates between 2002 and 2010, but these debates were always about how to do it, always about how to do it exactly. Zoltán Pokorni and even Rózsa Hoffmann had great professional debates on these issues. However, after 2010, you basically broke up this consensus. After 2010, the fundamental objectives of education policy have been changed. In fact, at the end of the day, they had only one goal, which is not a professional goal, but a political goal: total political control over the education system, control over schools, achieved through nationalisation, control over the content and methods of education, achieved by making the National Basics and curricula mandatory and centralising and abolishing textbook freedom, and, as far as possible, control over teachers. That's the hardest part, because educators, who themselves are intellectuals, creative people, are much harder to get into. This is basically what the current law is about. The current law is about how they make it total, or how they try to make control of teachers complete. In spite of its rigidity and occasional problems, the former civil servant status, which has been greatly impaired in the last ten years, has ensured a kind of predictability, protection and thus independence for all civil servants, not just teachers. This regulation is replaced by service relations, not by coincidence, that the term itself is brought from the world of armed bodies, because you do not want the intellectuals in education that are safe, creative, in the same way as in health and other areas, or in the public administration, but by droids, vulnerable executives, who can be disciplined, who can be forced to work, who can be expected not to serve the citizens, where appropriate, students, education, for the benefit of the country, but who are instead intended to be forced to become government servants, government servants. The fact is, that's what this law is all about, and that's what your ambitions are all about. I must say that this ambition is doomed. He is doomed because otherwise the teacher is not a talking tool, not a slave, the educator has a choice. That's why teachers are fleeing the field, which is why young people are avoiding the teaching field, because someone who has a sense of profession, who would take the job even with the very bad salaries you may have offered, would undertake to teach, would undertake to stay on the field instead of leaving the field for better money, would be deterred by the fact that they would otherwise make him vulnerable, that he would be deprived of his professional autonomy, that he would be deprived of his employees' rights. And the fact is, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the House, that there are very tough social policy considerations behind this, because your system is about how Fidesz billionaires get rich. Your system is one percent, serving the needs and interests of the narrow elite. The whole point of your system is to rob the entire country so that some people get rich. What does that have to do with education? I'll tell you. It is that this can only be done if a significant part of society does not recognise its own interests. This can be done if the propaganda held by public funds of many, many, many billions of forints is consumed by people without criticism or thought, or part of the people. You eliminate the autonomy of teachers in education, you eliminate the independence of students, the autonomy of schools, you want total control and control over education so that young people who will grow up in the future do not question your system. I have to say, this is the other thing that is doomed to fail. The students who protest show that they see through these tricks, that they don't let themselves get dumb. Luckily, today's young people can get information from other places than your lousy government agenda. Therefore, it is not worth ruining education just because they will not succeed with it. I'm sure that in the next generations, we'll still have a sense of criticism, a sense of common sense, and they won't eat up the old plastic propaganda you've produced. But it's the intention. It's the intention, because you can't. To think in the century, the intention is to gain control over the thinking of future generations through the control of education, the enslavement of teachers. Ladies and gentlemen, This does not mean that otherwise there are no problems in education that need to be resolved. [[7.40]] It doesn't even mean that everything was perfect before 2010, and I'm not saying that by any chance. I'm not saying this because we didn't say it back then. I do not know, do you remember, fellow Members, that in 2007-2008 the so-called round table for education and for children was in place, just because the government at the time knew that there was much to change in education, there is much to be done to improve in education. But we started by inviting representatives of the educational research profession, representatives of trade unions, representatives of the historical churches, everyone who could contribute in some way to this work, and on a professional basis, considering the facts, taking into account the great international trends, but also taking into account the Hungarian peculiarities, we prepared a plan, the Green Paper on Education, which contained exactly what needs to be changed about the situation of education. The fact is that this work was thrown into the trash after the change of government, which is the right of their heart, because a new government may have new priorities, but no comprehensive education development plan based on professional and social consultation has been developed ever since. Mr Secretary of State Rétvár, if I recall correctly, boasted here, or said that there are some points in this current bill that, in fact, the so-called Public Education Act 2012 or 13 has taken education out of the law even to amend its previous measures. I add, a lot of the rules that the profession used to tell us and us how to put it delicately unrealistic, and then I put it mildly, I could say that in a worse way, and now some of them are being led out. But it's just that they have no idea what they're doing or what they're doing in education. They have no concept, no idea. There is only one thing, okay, two: infinite desire for power, one goal, control, control, and the other is not to spend on education, because then there will be no money left to be stolen by Lőrinc Mészáros, István Tiborcz, the family of the Prime Minister and the others. These are the two objectives of your education policy for 13 years, which is what this bill serves, and we therefore do not support and we cannot accept it in any way.
u2023-06-16-386	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Endre Tóth of the Momentum Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-06-16-387	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to talk about the fact that you may have heard of the Maslow pyramid, it presents a hierarchy of need to the human psyche, and it is also valid in education, and I think it is also a valid concept in the education system. If you look at the basic needs of an education system: obviously, there must be schools equipped, teachers who know how to teach, they know the tricks of the course, they should be consumables such as photocopier paper, chalk, tablets, cleaners, and the rest, these are basic, if you like, physiological needs. Above this is the level of security, which means that these needs will continue to be met in the future, and we have to make sure that tomorrow there will be copy paper again, tomorrow there will be a teacher at school, tomorrow there will be cleaning supplies for the restrooms. If this goes beyond the education system, then we reach the level of social and then recognition, so that there should be, for example, an appreciation of a educator, social appreciation, financial appreciation, and if all of this has been overcome, then we will achieve self-realization, which I would use to translate to the level of education system, to address the challenges that are valid at his age, to try to renew, to adapt to an education system that will stand up and succeed internationally, to find its purpose and to fulfil its purpose to contribute to the development of students' personality, to support adult life, and to create adults who will stand their place later in the labour market, and to support them in their lives as well. This Maslow pyramid, which I have just built for you, is simply stuck at the first level in Hungary, at the level of basic needs, because Hungarian education is having problems in the third world, which we see in African countries and Asian countries that we do not have the basic equipment. They simply don't get cleaning supplies from the school district in many schools, let's say, for months. I myself in the South Buda district, which is an advanced district, one of the most advanced parts of Hungary, South Buda has been through virtually all the educational institutions in the past, yet I find that these basic deficits are continuing. School districts are simply unable to fulfil the function of providing basic equipment on time at all schools. Obviously, there will be a dilemma between institutional leaders and how they will now remedy these shortages. There's one where parents are asked to bring in toilet paper, chalk, paint classrooms, or try to bring in certain tools themselves, and they bring in, say, chalk, blackboard, copying paper. But these are obviously not the right solutions, because this would all be the task of the state to which the Hungarian people are honestly paying off and expect in return to provide the needs on which education is based. But it just doesn't happen. You know, the biggest problem with this is that, because of this, Hungarian education cannot move to higher levels, it cannot deal with the problems that are covered by Article XXI. In the first century they were fundamental and would serve the competitiveness of Hungarian education. Let me give you a few more specific examples from my district that I've experienced of how little these basic needs are. For example, at a school in NewBuda, I went into the IT room, and on one computer it was written out on a paper that was " Worse." So all the computers were bad, but there was one worse thing between them that didn't work at all, and the rest was just sloppy slow, and it could hardly be used for the purposes that they needed. The other school did not have a sufficient quantity and quality gymnasium, so they could not simply meet the needs of everyday physical education. There is also a wine school, István Soós Wine Technique in my district, Budafok is famous for his wine tradition, and this school is simply... Go away, please, and let the school board go to this school once, because this very old and patina building is destroyed on such a level that it is simply outrageous. And not only is the building destroyed, not only the classrooms are in an unrated state, but the worst is that it is a vocational training facility, so they use machines, they also do production work to teach students how to wine, and the majority of their machines come from the, the '70s. So just think: if you are talking about modern vocational training, then how can you talk about modern vocational training on machines manufactured in the '70s? It is simply amazing what conditions there are! They put, say, an area in focus, they say how important vocational training is, and that there should be as many good skilled workers as possible in Hungary if they do not put the conditions there. The same is true of everyday physical education, which was introduced with a feather stroke, but simply the conditions were not created. I'm telling you all this because the Status Act, or rather the Vengeance Act, is more appropriate, simply on this basic level, at this basic level. Otherwise, it will make things worse because it will further reduce the autonomy of teachers, make them feel safer, and they simply cannot move on to the higher levels that would be desperately needed. I am going to tell you what is needed to deal with the Hungarian education policy, and since it has not dealt with it for 13 years, because it is constantly about the wage issue, it is constantly about equipment, the problems of the KLIK, it is about the inadequate functioning of the Klebelsberg Centre. [[7.50]] They simply cannot deal with those that really are in the 21st century. It would be a challenge of the century, since our education system is about to change fundamentally. There was a XIX-XX. It is a centuries-old tradition, a prussian tradition built on it, didn't it, that it provided students with frontal education, equal education, and that everyone should win it, everyone should have a reading and writing individual, they can use, say, the basic skills that this period requires of them in factory work or professional work. But this has changed, because basically jobs and jobs have been transformed, which are now surrounding us and for which people are looking, because there is such a level of digitalization, roboticization that very simple, two-handed work, a lot of mechanical work, monotonous work are triggered by machines. For this social change, which is taking place at an accelerated pace, education must adapt, because if it does not, and it continues to be between XIX and XX. He teaches in a frontal system based on centuries' traditions, with an equatorial book, with equal education, prepares students for a past period, and when they get into adult life, they see that this is not what the labour market asks of them, this is not what they need, they cannot stand up because they have not mastered those skills, skills that would be fundamental in such a workplace. For example, there is digitalisation, which I have already mentioned, and this presents a lot of challenges for schools, because it is not enough to distribute laptops only in campaigns, as you do, but it is also very important that, even if there are these digital tools that are not available in sufficient numbers in Hungarian education, especially in insufficient quality, and especially in inadequate service, but in many cases it is missing how they can be used in accordance with the curriculum on the one hand. So the curricula are simply so rigid, they limit teachers so much that they have very little opportunity to have space, they have time to process the curriculum simply to involve, say, the use of digital devices, and very many teachers do not yet have the skills, the digital competences that would enable them to use these devices, involve them in the class, and do not be alarmed, let's say, by having a smartphone in the hands of students, but can effectively involve it. This is my colleague talking about ChatGPT and quoting it. This is also a big challenge, for example, how artificial intelligence will appear in education, how this problem will be handled, and if, say, you have to write an essay to the student, then he may now hit the ChatGPT question and not the student will formulate the answer, but artificial intelligence. How do teachers handle this? Are you trying to ban it? Are you trying to involve him? Such dilemmas should simply be discussed by Hungarian education research, and the Hungarian education management should be a dwarf on such dilemmas, and the pedagogical society should simply be able to use this digital world, not only the youngest, but also the older ones. A system of further training should be created that effectively helps older people to use these tools, and teacher training should be reformed at a level that does not allow any young teacher to leave the university in the absence of digital competence. But there are, aren't there, new social phenomena that we have to face because of the change in time, because of the change in society, and if we don't deal with them, then the problem will just be swept under the carpet. For example, these digital natives, they are already, aren't they, the latest generation, and their world is completely different. So they already live in this Internet space day and night, and this affects their personality, in many cases even in the case of personal encounters, it impairs their social abilities, alters their stimuli, their monotony tolerance. This should also be reflected in the education management's ability to keep students' attention when the students' tolerance for monotony is falling sharply. And by the way, not only did the students, the adults may have noticed themselves, fellow Members, that they are no longer so patient in reading the long articles, because we are socialised in the Internet space to look at very fast content and video content, and that is why everyone is distracted. But there are also phenomena such as bullying. There has always been a case of being targeted at in school, but in recent times this has increased its professionalism, and very important insights have been made on this subject, such as how to prevent a person from becoming a victim of the abuse by his classmates. This should also be addressed, and action plans should also be drawn up, so as to make school years as balanced and as happy as possible for students, for everyone. Such solutions have been found to bring in school guards, but this was often counterproductive because it brought, say, aggression to school, there were such negative examples, and this would stop aggression at a level when aggression had already taken place. So it would be much better to prevent this with helpers, educators, and training that can suppress at an early stage someone from becoming a victim, say, of aggression. But there is also the Covid period, for example, to which the education government did not respond properly, and to this day caused unprocessed wounds throughout generations, since there are classes, virtually the majority of the classes in school now experienced a two-year period about when he did not really meet his classmates, whose graduation, school trips, and simply because of his social skills were impaired. So it should also be addressed, not to mention that school psychologists are constantly ringing the alarm about how many mental problems students are having right now. Covid put a huge shovel on this, too, and that should be dealt with. [[László Földi is replaced by Attila Gelencsér in the notary seat.]] But there is also the question of media awareness. I don't know how happy you are with this, let's say, the governing party, because you may be happy to have a young man fall for propaganda, but in more developed countries, you put a great deal of emphasis on this, so that young people can tell the difference between what is a credible source and what is not credible. These are the problems that should be addressed, and I have not yet reached the end of the line, but the Vengeance Act does not deal with them, and Hungarian education policy has not been dealing with them for 13 years. So the problem is that you are simply on this Maslow pyramid, which I mentioned at the beginning, you cannot take action at the levels that you should be able to take, and so Hungary will suffer a disadvantage in global competition, as regards education systems, because it will not be able to adapt to the new challenges. Thank you very much.
u2023-06-16-388	Thank you, Congressman. Now we have two-minute comments. I give the floor to Gergely Arató, from the DK Group, followed by Balázs Barkóczi and Brenner Koloman.
u2023-06-16-389	Dear House, I would like to give you some information about the progress of this debate, because I am, as you know, a chemistry-physics teacher, and I like numbers, and I think these are important. I would like to highlight three of these educational figures. One is that perhaps one of the things that best measure it, at least in this way recently, is the XXI. In the 20th century, the success of the education system is the proportion of higher education graduates. I wouldn't go into it right now, two minutes doesn't make it possible, of course, that this doesn't mean that vocational training is not important, but it is an important indicator. In the European Union, it is now 40 percent, they want to reach 45 percent by 2030, compared with 30 percent in Hungary, and in the last ten years this has not even increased, so there is no effort. However, it is even more worrying that this ratio is only 19.2 percent in Northern Hungary. This has always been the case for the 24-35-year-old population, so the ratio applies to the young adult population, while in the capital city 60 percent, in the county of Pest, is 36 percent. So what I was talking about earlier is that it is also about the fact that the social fragmentation is not being eliminated today, but is being strengthened by the education system. [[8.00]] And there is an economic reason for this, which I have just referred to, the largest expenditure on education for GDP was in 2003, 6.3 percent. This, by the way, decreased until 2010, which is why the previous government can be criticized, but it was still well above 5 percent, and it was higher than during the 2001 Fidesz government, for example. However, after the crisis, they did not increase the share of education, but reduced it to 3.9 percent today. This is your education policy.
u2023-06-16-390	Thank you, Congressman. Now the 15-minute time-frame comments are coming. I give the floor to Balázs Barkóczi, from the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-06-16-391	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. First of all, I would like to thank my fellow Member, Endre Tóth, for his 15-minute comment, because that is what it is really about, that there are digital competences that Hungarian education and public education do not develop or even try to reduce, and there are instruments that this system of public education cannot teach children to use. Let me give you an example of my teaching experience. We were preparing a play on the student stage, when the class and I figured out what to put on the poster. I asked the kids if someone could edit this at home. Ten minutes later, they brought it to me at the teacher's table, edited on their phones. So they already live in this world, in this digital world, and they use these tools in such an understanding way that it is not a mistake, but a sin from the system of Hungarian public education that we still do not want to accept them, we still do not want to put them in the service of education. Horribile dictu is still forbidden instead of using them, because this is obviously the future, the future of all of us, the future of our children. I would like to mention that we have had a lot of discussions or talked about what is wrong with the opposition with this vengeance law. The pro-government representatives have always referred to how much positive this new status will bring to teachers and how the school structure will be transformed. But you know, and I told you that at the protest yesterday, I keep seeing a face in front of me, the face of that 17-year-old guy, maybe more people remember him, who was at the Carmelite at one of the cordon breakers, holding on to one of the cordon columns, and even though he was hit with a baton and sprayed down with tear gas, he was holding on like his life depended on him. I think the future that we all have in common now depends on how long we can hold on to this symbolic pillar, when we give in to power violence, or when we say that so far, and no longer, we have had enough and stand up for ourselves. Because, in fact, this Vengeance Act is Viktor Orbán's baton, with which he struck us, and not just us parents, or not just us teachers, but he committed the biggest crime that the responsible government can only commit by crushing students. He did this simply because that's all he can do because he can't steer. 'Cause what kind of government is the one that's been watching schools rot for the past 13 years, the walls of the classrooms break down, how to spread the kids out into containers so they can study there. What kind of education government is where there is no Ministry of Education, it is placed under the Ministry of Interior, as a twenty-tier sector of Hungarian education, and for example, they introduce everyday physical education, when everyone knows that schools are not prepared for it, so many schools do not have a gymnasium. In some way, they try to paper everyday physical education by squatting the children in the hallway and all that. What kind of education management or governance is when there is 660 billion to buy Vodafone, or the Prime Minister's son-in-law has another 200 billion, and when it comes to educators' wages, this government is constantly pointing to the European Union and Brussels, even though it knows precisely that the amount for educators' wages would be included in the national budget. It could also be produced with 27 percent VAT, record high European VAT, or, let's say, the amount of government investment cancelled could be used to raise pedagogue wages, but they do not. So what do you think? Of course you're thinking that they want to force this vengeance law through parliament and society now, because they want to hit teachers, students and parents who have protested for a year and a half as a baton. When teachers say they want to strike, this Vengeance Act calls them on strike. When teachers run out of school because the teaching society is getting old, a lot of people retire and our fellow Member Gréczy quoted the words of András Juhász, director of the Attila József High School from an interview yesterday, it was important for me because I also taught at Attila József High School, I personally knew Andrew, I was his subordinate, if I may say that four teachers have already indicated his resignation, and two of these four teachers are twenty years old, two are in the middle of his 40s. So those who can still imagine other existentialities can retrain themselves will leave the teaching career. It further exacerbates the situation that a colleague retires from JAG this year. András tells us in this interview that he will probably be able to resolve replacements from September by forcing the teachers who still remain there to do extra work, which is why there is a double danger. On the one hand, that this extra work will not be accepted by colleagues, so more people will retire and, on the other hand, that the level of education will be radically and significantly reduced. So when the protestors say who's going to teach me tomorrow, and if there's no teacher, there's no future, then think of two science teachers leaving JAG now: who's going to teach chemistry? Who's gonna teach physics? Who's gonna teach math? Where do we get engineers? Where do we get doctors? Have you thought about that? When the lack of science teachers is now hit not only by small rural settlements, but also by prestigious high schools in Budapest, such as Attila József High School. This is, therefore, the law of vengeance, and this is the future that Viktor Orbán intends for the people of Hungary. And we must have no doubt, as long as Viktor Orbán and Fidesz remain, the Fidesz Vengeance Act will remain, the artificially low and the teacher's salaries consumed by inflation in Orbán will remain, the exodus, the dropout, and the fact that there has never been such a high proportion of early school leavers. What would be the opposite of that? Or what else does this Vengeance Act limit? Our fellow Member Tóth has already mentioned digitalization. Let me approach this issue a little differently from the point of view of school cooperation and contacts. Because it is very important for parents to feel that the school is for their children, the school is an integral part of the parenting community and the student community, that this school has traditions, this school is based on predictability, so it is not that the student is enrolled in a prestigious high school in Budapest, and then in a year he will have to face the fact that there is no one there to teach him mathematics. So there's a kind of predictability, and that's exactly what this Vengeance Act is doing. Of course, the erosion of school cooperation and contacts has already started with the nationalization of schools, and that is why, by nationalising schools, these communities have been quasi-annihilated from the larger communities of which they have been a natural part, so they have been involved in the history, everyday life and traditions of the settlement or district. Let me give you another personal example. In my constituency on 15 March, the 15th. I gave a festive speech in the Pestújhely square in the district, where the festive programme was given by the students of the Pestújhely Elementary School. It was a beautiful show. [[8.10]] We were all very proud to see our dog's cubs, so we were all proud of the high standard of education in the Pestújhely Elementary School. Now it's starting to end with the nationalization of schools, as I said, and they're going to go through this process, this very sad process. Let's see, and this is a problem, by the way, excuse me, I told you yesterday, when the pro-government representatives asked themselves how serious discussions were going on here, that the basic concept had not been agreed with the players in the profession at all. They had a text written on 2 March, a 164-page text, for eight working days, and the Civil Public Education Platform sent its comments in December 2022. It is now June 17th, so the government has not responded in more than six months, it did not consider the Civil Public Education Platform worth responding to their comments. So the original concept was already flawed. What was in this? They are like disciplinary proceedings, which were taken from the Public Employee and Public Education Act a long time ago, the possibility of disciplinary action against teachers, and they wanted to bring it back to aggravate the level of punishment, i.e. that for six months a 20% reduction or dismissal has been envisaged, while the possibility of weighing and deciding is taken out of the hands of the head of the institution and referred to in the competence of a third person, the so-called district leader, we know them. Let's say the head of the North-Pest district, where my constituency belongs, has just taken a field trip, well, somewhere else, to Nice, obviously in public. When we confronted him with this on Teacher's Day, the year XV. I can't understand or understand what the district manager was doing for public money in Nice, why he was buzzing on the beach, while you're keeping the teachers for nothing. It is also a very big problem that these schools have not been integrated into the life of the school, and that is why the Democratic Coalition and the shadow government led by Klára Dobrev say that the educational institutions, together with the resources allocated to them, should be returned to the municipalities that undertake to do so, because these settlements, these communities, were an integral, organic part of the educational institutions, while the schools only functioned as a penal and disciplinary organization over teachers, such as the education government, or the Ministry of Interior, or Minister Pintér, I do not know how to say, as a local executive, extended right hand of these communities, who now strike a great one with this rubber stick called the Vengeful Law. Obviously, this will seriously damage opportunities for school contacts and cooperation. But let's keep going. It's probation. According to the law on civil servants and public education, it was three to four months. In the draft, it was raised to six months. Unreasonably, the worker would be held in uncertainty for a long time, and this clearly seriously harms the trust relationship between the parent and the educator and endangers its normal development and functioning. 'Cause what happens when a high schooler, a freshman, goes into his school, holding his mother's hand? He gets to know his teacher's aunt, then the head of the school district, not even the head of the institution, but the head of the school district, who might do this from Nice by texting, relieves this educator of his work. So it's the same with the transfer, by the way. Have you ever heard of the trust relationship between the teacher and the students? Have you ever seen a kid up close, not just from afar? Let me not comment on who your faction looks at children from afar or who's looking at them. So that's the problem with probation. Extraordinary discharge. Public and public education law: extraordinary exemption from knowledge could be exercised within 15 days at most within one year of the occurrence of the cause. This would now be modified by the fact that this extraordinary exemption can be exercised until the first day of August of the school year concerned and during the summer holiday until the first day of August of the following academic year. Again, this creates a vulnerable situation, keeps the employee in doubt and seriously harms the trust and cooperative relationship that should be built between teacher and parent, educator and student. Now, time will not allow me to finish, but I promise I will return, and, if I may, Mr Secretary of State, I will also describe good practices from Western countries on how to organise public education instead of slamming the heads of teachers with a club or a baton called the Vengeful Law. Thank you very much.
u2023-06-16-392	Thank you, Congressman. Everyone is already excited to see you come back to this. In the meantime, I give the floor to Brenner Koloman of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-06-16-393	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As I explained in my previous comment, Jobbik-Conservatives could imagine a professional law for the Hungarian pedagogical society without further ado, if it were to make progress compared to the current civil servant status. Compared to this, this law was not preceded by real social and professional consultation. The Jobbik-Conservatives, on the other hand, regard the Hungarian teachers as responsible intellectuals, not as servants, so we reject this law. This status law does not provide cover for meaningful wage arrangements. In the opinion of the Jobbik-Conservatives, the Hungarian pedagogical society has deserved moral and material respect for many years. It is no coincidence that we have resubmitted our immediate 50 percent wage increase proposal to the current budget. If the current Fidesz government had done this two years ago, it would have been too late. And yes, my fellow Members, we have the funds for this in the Hungarian budget. In turn, the fact that they attach to the receipt of European Union funds the appreciation of the Hungarian pedagogical society is simply a confession in our opinion. A confession to the fact that you don't appreciate the Hungarian teachers at the level of value choice, because you're not stopping Brussels right now, or I can't even understand what you're waiting for in relation to wage planning. Let me say this again, perhaps, if Fidesz voters are watching this parliamentary mediation now, that no one will give a vote on the Fidesz list next June, as comrades of the Fidesz State Secretary here say that because of the ugly opposition MEPs, Hungarian citizens will not receive the money. I would also like to say here with respect that 13 Fidesz MEPs are sitting in Brussels, and who, by the way, must once again be the best symbol of Brussels in Hungarian political life, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, because he is the most important decision-making body of the European Union, in the European Council. He decides, he votes for all sanctions, respected fidesz voter. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán voted in favour of each penalty. Behind his back, he's called a king of sanctions. So I would think that pointing it at Brussels because of the lack of European Union funds, well, let me put it this way, is a steep thing. And even steeper, let us say, to bring opposition MEPs into this whole context at all, while we all know very well that, because of the policy of the last 13 years, Hungarian citizens cannot have access to these European Union funds, even though, in the very serious economic and social crisis that we have been in orbán, Hungarian citizens would need very long ago, a targeted support that we have proposed from the Jobbik-Conservatives for a very long time. [[8.20]] Compared to this, because you have systematically dismantled the rule of law in 13 years, this old European conservative value has nothing to do with the liberal mainstream in Brussels, one of the three pillars of European culture, Roman law, and the rule of law, as well as Christian ethics and Greek-Roman philosophy, is based on the European culture in which we conservatives believe. You do not believe in these, therefore, because they systematically dismantled the rule of law, implement systemic corruption with the system of overpriced prices, and, unfortunately, by now, the other EU Member States, honourable Fidesz fellow Members, the Germans, the others who are contributors to the EU budget, have come to the point where they do not want to finance your one-party overpower. This is dangerous, and this is a threat to the European Union's resources that would otherwise be passed on to Hungarian citizens! With one stroke of pen and political decision, you could change that, but you will not do so and restore the balanced civil democracy in which we conservatives believe, because then the entire Orbán system will fail immediately. This status law does not address the real problems of domestic education, so we cannot support it. In the opinion of the Jobbik-Conservatives, a genuine, Klebelsberg, conservative education policy turn is needed, some of which I have already presented in my previous comment, and I will now. This law further reduces the autonomy of teachers and basically contradicts what we think of the nation's day laborers, namely that they are responsible intellectuals and practically their autonomy because we trust them to increase a responsible education policy. This status law would further increase the burden of teachers' colleagues, so we cannot support it. On the other hand, we believe that we should reduce the burden on teachers' colleagues, which are also extremely high in comparison with the European Union. This status law further reduces the social prestige of this wonderful profession. Who else will apply to teach in Hungary? We say, on the other hand, that the most talented Hungarian young people should be involved in this wonderful career, but that requires not a status law, but adequate material and moral appreciation. This status law further undermines the quality of education and education work. However, we conservatives believe that only with an effective, fair and effective education can there be one, the XXI. It is also successful to build a Hungarian nation in the century. This status law gives the holders of Fidesz one-party overpower to control teachers. We Jobbik-Conservatives, however, believe that Hungarian people are not subjects, but responsible Hungarian citizens, and in a balanced civil democracy and social market economy that we believe in, and we do not forget, that the founding fathers of the European Union, Konrad Adenauer, but Gasperi and Schuman, were all Christian democratic politicians, believed in a social market economy. And yes, we Jobbik-Conservatives know that the current European Union is not perfect from this point of view, but we also know that, especially in the current war situation, which has been caused by the spectacularly allied Putini Russia with Viktor Orbán and Fidesz has started aggression against neighbouring Ukraine, in this very difficult situation, Europe and NATO are our security. I would therefore like to continue with the idea of a real civic and conservative alternative education policy, the elements of which I would like to present now, which would apply to the Hungarian university world. All the debates about 80 percent of the Hungarian university world were suddenly turned into a form of foundation based solely on Fidesz Curatoriums, by the current Fidesz one-party power, are in our opinion a fundamental violation of our very important common value in Europe since the Middle Ages, which is called university autonomy. I am the rapporteur of the Council of Europe on university autonomy and academic freedom. I find it extremely distressing that my academic-research colleagues are currently suffering incredible disadvantages, as are university students, because of your criminal policy, my dear fellow Members, because it has become clear to everyone that these universities, which have been turned into public foundations, do indeed violate university autonomy. And a little bit, I think, is worth going into details, so that everyone understands, because my fellow Members here always argue that there is a foundation elsewhere, and that is not from the devil. I have always said that every single speech I make can be looked back at, that indeed, the form of foundation in the university world is not from the devil. But, please, in what university world doesn't the foundation form come from the devil? Especially in the Anglo-Saxon world, where there are fortunes accumulated for centuries behind an Oxford, a Harvard. In the Hungarian university world, whose assets were first taken away in Trianon, and then taken away in the communist system after 45, it is not possible to suddenly introduce a form of foundation in which, moreover, the traditions that everyone in the Anglo-Saxon world understands very precisely what the board is supposed to do, that is, the curatorium. I will tell you, fellow Members of the Fidesz, that there the members of the Board will bring money to their university. So it's not that, in addition to the ministerial salary, they're still going to take a million and a half salary from the university, as you did to shame them, but the board is going to bring money to their university. Therefore, in general, people from former students have become very serious personalities in a university curatorium in the Anglo-Saxon world who make serious money and fundraising for their own university. And there's no way in which a board, a board, is involved in human policy decisions. So the task of university management is very distinct, the task of the university senate, that is to say, the parliament of university citizens, and the task of the board of trustees. Compared to that, in your system at Corvinus University, the board of trustees wiped out the university faculty. The university faculty is the foundation of autonomy, as it brings together teaching and research colleagues in the area of roughly common science. That's what I'm saying as an ex-college leader. And this is why my fellow academic researchers do not have access to the European Union funds, and it is in question for university students to gain access to Erasmus + scholarships, which is one of the best and forward-looking European Union opportunities for Hungarian university students to learn about higher education in other countries. So because of your faulty and criminal policy, this already creates extraordinary disadvantages for the Hungarian university world, since, let's say, a project for a research project, Horizon, requires a consortium of several universities. Can you imagine that a University of Western Europe is now launching a consortium with a Hungarian university that you do not even know that these universities will be entitled to receive EU funds at all? And there is a killing competition, my dear fellow Members, in the European Higher Education Area for EU funds, and they suffer a very serious disadvantage in these months working in the Hungarian university world. This is also a very serious part of the anti-knowledge and intellectual policy that characterizes their entire education system, which has been adapted over the past 13 years in accordance with your choice of values and your education policy. [[8.30]] And now let me quote Mr Parragh, your principal education guru, who always says that there is no need for so many graduates, it is important to be skilled workers, and so on. And make no mistake, there's an incredible demand for a well-trained skilled worker, a language-speaking skilled worker who's qualified for IT. This is what we should do, not dumben vocational training, but give proper support, as we have been pushing for for many years. But please, it's the 21st. In the centuries of knowledge and information, you will starve the Hungarian university world, these knowledge centres, and now you are endangering the European Union's resources, which also shows the anti-knowledge and intellectual policy to which we conservatives are saying against. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-06-16-394	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to inform the Members that we entered the 18th hour three minutes ago in the negotiation process. I now give the floor to Endre Tóth of the Momentum Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2023-06-16-395	Thank you very much for the floor. I would like to talk to you about autonomy, which is a very important feature of education systems, if any, because those education systems are currently competitive on the international stage, where autonomy is a general value, which is present at all levels. So there is autonomy for teachers, there is autonomy for school directors, there is, if there are districts, there is autonomy for teachers, there is autonomy for teachers, there is autonomy for ministry workers. However, this is not what we see in the Hungarian situation, we hear another expression very often, when negotiations take place, we hear that I have no authority. I don't have the authority, that's what the teachers' union is told by the middle minister assigned to trial, but he doesn't have the authority to say anything to them. Many of these negotiations have been attended by teachers' unions. I have no authority, says the school district manager, who has parents' representatives in South Buda, and they're bringing him the problems they're experiencing in schools. And the school district manager says I don't have a budget, I don't have the authority to solve these problems. And obviously, the educator says, yes, I have no authority; with pain, teachers say that I have no authority to decide from which textbook to teach, what course to choose, because I am so regulated by the central master's plan, the National Basics plan is binding my hands at such a level that I do not have sufficient powers, I do not have enough pedagogical freedom to make my own professional decisions. This is a huge problem that they have taken education so far in the direction of centralization and control, as this is against the modern, progressive wave that sweeps through the world's education systems. They are trying to lower autonomy everywhere so that they can simply decide at the level of the questions, the problems that arise that are closest to it. Obviously, a educator knows to him personally or to his class what he teaches, which textbook is the one that is best suited, what teaching materials or even digital teaching material is what he can use best. If your hands are tied in this, the right of students to quality education will be violated, because the person who determines the course and education simply cannot decide freely. It is a huge problem that you have just brought in this wonderful vengeance law, and it will further undermine this autonomy, which I am talking about, which would mean the adaptability of an educational sector. What do we see in him? He takes rights away from teachers and educators, he will no longer have to vote for them, he does not need their consent to establish the pedagogical programme, to define the annual work plan, but he will not be able to interfere with the choice of their workplace if they are transferred to another school because there are not enough teachers there. So the autonomy of teachers is being undermined by this law, which is very bad, because a system has already been established in the last 13 years that is similar to such an Egyptian pyramid, a very hierarchy of decision-making system, where the state and the Ministry's leaders decide everything, a minister appoints, for example, a school principal, the heads of the district have taken a lot away from the authority of the school director. Let's just think of the extent to which he is injured, let's say, the autonomy of a school principal when a schoolteacher is fired from his school without consent, his opinion was not asked, but the minister scolded, and the school district manager did what the mustache police captain required of him, and fired, let's say, the protesting educator with whom the school principal had no problems, thought he was a good teacher, the children loved him, but they reached over his head, and they made that decision. There is constant damage to autonomy at all levels that will ensure that good decisions are made so that the education system can adapt to the 21st century. The challenges of the century. Otherwise, the other very important adaptation factor is innovation. I talk so much about adaptation because in my previous comment, who followed it, I mentioned how rapid changes are taking place in society, that the speed of change is increasing exponentially. When you think about it, only a few decades ago, society was completely different in our lives, the environment in which we lived, other technical tools were used, and the rapid development of technology fundamentally transforms our lives. Simply, if a person cannot adapt to this rapid change, or if a society cannot adapt, then he will fail and he will not find his place and fail in the competition that will ensure that he too is a useful part of an international economy, say, a country, or at individual level, a useful part of a labour market. If one cannot produce this adaptability, then in the modern world, it is doomed. It can also play a role for middle-income countries, which, say, can be expressed by the assembly plant, can do lower value-added jobs, but if someone wants to step up and guarantee prosperity for his people, then they must invest in education and not only in money but also in autonomy. And not only with autonomy, but also with innovation, which I just mentioned, because we can keep up with development if we are constantly renewed and the education system itself is constantly renewed. What has the education government done in the field of innovation in the last 13 years? Our innovation capabilities are fundamentally influenced by research institutes, background institutions, which continue to do this education, research and development. Well, what did the Orbán government do? At the beginning of his term, he plowed these institutions one by one. We can think of the Institute for Education and Development, or even Educatio Kft., which also had a research department. These institutions have ceased to exist, and everything has been grouped into bureaucratic offices, perhaps organized into universities, but it is simply the capacity that had been in the country before, and there has been this intellectual buzz that characterized education research... there are a lot of excellent educational researchers still in Hungary, but what about them? They're on a periphery, their ideas, their suggestions, their backgrounds no one reads from the government, or if they read it, they just swipe at it, and they don't start implementing it. These experts can only gather around the opposition because we listen to them and we involve them in our policy programmes every single election. A hundred-point proposal from the EGYE has been made, and a number of renowned experts have been involved in the opposition's programme. Fidesz doesn't even have an education policy program in the election, because they just keep saying that we're going on or they're not saying that anymore, they're just saying that Gyurcsány, Soros, migrants. [[8.40]] So the level that we have reached is simply terrible, there are no more professional debates, and it is also very sad that the governing parties have built their own abilities. There was also an educational policy workshop in Fidesen in the years before 2010, which was a champagne, innovative thing; the Finnish example was considered, let's say, to look at international good practices, and this workshop could argue with left-wing and liberal workshops, and from this intellectual exploding, good decisions were made, bad decisions were made, but there was a constant self reflection, a self-criticism about what could be done better. And the goals had an intersection in which everyone agreed, for example, to increase the education of students, to get more people to, say, the university level, fewer people to drop out of high school without a degree, and similar goals that are simply essential in a modern country. But these goals have already been set aside by the government, and for example, measures have been put in place, such as the reduction of the school obligation by 16 years of age, which has destroyed it, clearly all experts can predict how many people will graduate from high school. Fidesz broke up with his previous education policy at many points and put new goals first. It is also very interesting, it should also be said that I was working in the Ministry in the period 2016 and I saw the duality of the government's education policy. I was just a simple rapporteur, but I also saw that there are European Union commitments, the European Union goals, which are about, say, reducing segregation, increasing social mobility, and the family should not play such a role in who goes where in education, how successful they will be. Together with the European Union, Hungary and the Hungarian Government have set such goals. Then, when we see what measures he has taken, regardless of the EU programmes, we have already seen that he has set completely different goals. He spoke of loving segregation, say the then minister, and in some cases they encouraged segregation, for example. Or measures have been taken that have simply undermined the possibility of social mobility. And indeed, in the last 13 years, there has been an increase in the proportion of those who have failed to perform, and this has simply become more and more serious, as we now hear from companies, even factory representatives and managers, that applicants for trained jobs are not fit to fill these positions, because they are functional illiterates, and they do not understand the instruction that should be interpreted, say, for the handling of a machine. So there are huge problems here, and we see that this duality has developed, as the dual speech has been, that when the Fidesz people in Brussels sometimes say something different than what they say to the Hungarian public, and they are already a little civilized on the European scene; and let's say, József Szájer spoke differently, he lived differently than many people here promote. And what we see is that this dual speech has also continued in the field of education policy, and in the European Union programmes, which have brought in a very significant resource for the development of education, have set progressive, forward-looking goals, because this is what the Union expected, and they have set goals that would have really helped, say, poor students to catch up or not to be dominated by family backgrounds in education. But then, when the action took place, they made perfectly contradictory things. The same applies in higher education, where, for example, internationalisation was set as an important goal, so that as many foreign students come to Hungary to increase the prestige of Hungarian higher education, then a measure was taken to drive the CEU away. And this has given us a huge slap in the face of all previous efforts, of any previous EU programme that has been invested in the development of higher education, because what we have tried to achieve over the years has been destroyed in one move, because of a political will, because of a political intention to communicate, and one of the most prestigious institutions in the country, where many foreign students have actually come to our country, has been simply plowed in, and now they are teaching CEU students in Vienna. So this duality is characteristic all the time. And simply until the government corrects its goals, its goal hierarchy, simply what he wants to achieve in education, there will be no normal measures, because if the goal is bad, then how good tools can be found for it. We can now see what the purpose of the Vengeance Act is. They say many nice things here, but basically, if you look at the concrete measures that are included in this, then control; control is the goal, further centralization, further hierarchy building. There is only one thing that gives us more leeway, in which no one has asked us to pay performance wages, which the directors are reluctant to do, because this measure will create enormous tension in the faculty. So I would encourage the governing parties, although virtually no one is here anymore, just a health secretary, which I think is a shame in the case of an educational debate, to finally put their goals in order in the field of education. Fix it and set forward goals that will help our country to prosper [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] The key goals that help disadvantaged students to reach higher education, for example, and not only 11 percent of the poorest third should continue to learn, but should be closer to the richest one third, where, say, 71 percent. So I would ask that if you watch this speech on television because you didn't look at it in person, then set these goals and confess honestly what purpose the Vengeance Act was born for. Thank you very much.
u2023-06-16-396	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Dezső the Believer, from the group of the MSZP. Mr. Messenger, please. You have the floor.
u2023-06-16-397	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, If someone is monitoring this meeting on TV, it will become absolutely clear to everyone, in my view, that the dialogue of the deaf is taking place. Not only in the last 20 hours, but in recent months, and even if we look back a little more bravely in time, it can also be said that the dialogue of the deaf has taken place in recent years; various civil society organisations, parliamentary representatives, many people have spoken their opinions, and I sense that the government is not listening to this. I keep getting a sense of how the government is lying, and I can sense that they're in trouble because of that. It's out in the open, it's what they call a Maruzsa video now... and it turns out that the Secretary of State thinks that if they tell the truth, they'll get into trouble. What I'm sensing is that when they're not telling the truth, they're still in trouble. And the biggest problem is that not only the government is in trouble, but all of us who live here in Hungary. I am not an education politician, and therefore what I am about to say now is not about education policy or professional issues. So I'm not really an educated man, but I'm a father, I'm a grandfather, and that's how I'm involved in this case. And I think there are a lot of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people in this country. We are all involved in issues relating to public education. And as a Member of Parliament in my constituency, I think it is the right thing to do if I talk to people about this, too. This has happened unsolicited in recent times, since I did not have to look for an opportunity to talk about it with people; they themselves found me, sought me out and gave me their opinions. So what I'm about to say here is that these sentences are built from people. [[8.50]] It is very clear that they are completely confused about what is currently taking place in Hungarian education. I just mentioned that it concerns everyone, and so everyone has an opinion on it. In fact, it can be said that they are incomprehensible about this whole issue because one would think that a government to which trust has been voted will start to deal with the most serious problems in society. These include education, then health care, social care, family support, so there are millions of questions. And it's very noticeable that the government is dealing with a lot of things, killing terrible money into everything else. People say that so simply, they say that they spend on total bullshit. Here from the canopy story to the acquisition of Vodafone, so all sorts of things that are not important to people, there is money for what is really important, and it affects all of us, but there is no money for that. And it's been very noticeable for years. They also told me that the problem is that education is a constant problem and problem in people's daily lives. It is a problem and a problem because they experience new and new situations that need to be adapted as a parent. It is not that there is a clear and clear vision, and this education, and it builds up its life by adapting to it, but every year parents, of course, children, and in this way teachers face new challenges. So they have to rearrange their lives because the government is unable to solve this problem. For years now, we have seen that he has not had a clear vision and that what is going on in education is changing year after year, and that people are unable to adapt to it, that they must constantly reorganize their lives, and that they can experience strange experiences. Many people have said, and several of my fellow Members have also said, that it is not a solution that parents need to bring different equipment and other materials needed for the school to work, or they need to paint it. They paid their taxes, and I think it's a perfectly legitimate expectation that they expect the schools where they carry their children to be completely safe and have a normal life there. Clearly, that is not the case today. Children are not taken to a safe place when we take them to school, although you keep saying that safety is one of the most important things. They are not safe in schools, on the one hand, because these schools are physically inadequate, they require a lot of renovations; we often see TV news and other places where there is almost a life-threatening situation; and I do not think that it is a safe story either, if, say, singing teachers or gym teachers teach physics, not hurting, of course, the teachers of physical education here. But I guess it can't be a normal method, and it's not safe for someone who doesn't have a specific qualification or ability to teach the subject. I myself was in a position to organise the investments made by the municipality, when I was still a deputy mayor, twelve years ago. At the time, primary schools belonged to the municipalities, so it was a very important task to maintain these buildings in a normal way. Twelve years ago, the XIII. In the district, the municipality had hundreds of millions of forints, not rarely billions of dollars, but ten years ago it was money! He's been spending money on the school. We went according to a plan, surveyed the schools, what condition they were in, what kind of investment they needed, maybe repair or a complete complex renovation. And there was a plan for these, and we went along with it, and we spent all the time on schools. I'm reporting from here, there hasn't been any investment in any of the schools in the last 12 years. Can you imagine what conditions might prevail? This is XIII. It is particularly striking in the district, because kindergartens are still in the local government, there are preschools in impeccable condition, filled with well-trained teachers, and the children are enjoying themselves there. And that's where a huge shift comes from when they get into completely destroyed schools. And now I understand why parents aren't allowed into schools. If I had a school like this, I wouldn't be showing it to anyone. But I think that this is a serious problem, and you have not found a solution to this for decades now. So the fact that they haven't spent a penny on schools in a settlement of this size in 12 years, I think that's unacceptable. There was also an example that in a given school, one half of which was still maintained by the municipality, the investment took place there and nothing happened on the half of the state. It's a very interesting sight to see when a school is half renovated and not half renovated. And that's because you didn't think it was important that it was normally prepared there. So there's too much contrast, I guess. People told me that they also sensed, talking to their friends, how they could do this differently. You, too, have certainly heard many times about the fact that this is quite different in Finland. I remember how many times in these conversations we talked about how Finns do it differently, not for much more money, and how well-functioning there is. And now the numbers show that they do it differently in Austria, and they do it better than we do, more people carry their children there every year to study there, under normal circumstances, not to survive the terrible situation in Hungary. I also sense that this is important to you. Just the other day, there was a newspaper article that I read that it is important for the various NER riders to go to a proper school. Interestingly, they don't even go to school here. [[Dr. Péter Takács: Where is it?]] Sadly, most of the people in the country cannot choose to take their children abroad to study and get a quality education there. At times like this, you think about it, and when you talk to someone else, you feel ashamed of what is under the heading of education in the country. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] And it's not good that we should be ashamed of ourselves in front of our friends. Especially if a significantly better quality could be produced from this. I think that as parents, there is nothing more important to us than our children, and we experience it every year in education, but if there is a government secretary of state dealing with health, then it is not safe that 100,000 children in Hungary today are not safe to be provided with care and care. [[Dr. Péter Takács is shaking his head.]] ; 100,000 children do not have a district doctor. This was just a detour from the unblessed state of public education, and the situation in health care is similar. I would like to say that I would really like to be proud of the training that our children receive in Hungary, but I cannot be proud and I cannot boast to foreigners or friends. They also see that something is wrong here in Hungary. And now we've got to be ashamed of it. I'm ashamed, but I think I'm not the only one who should be ashamed of myself, especially you. Thank you for your attention.
u2023-06-16-398	Thank you very much, Congressman, as well as the Parliamentary notary. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr Bertalan Tóth, Head of the Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor. [[9.00]]
u2023-06-16-399	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I will say a strange thing: there can be no easy situation for the responsible State Secretarys of the Ministry of Interior, whether in charge of health or education, because the facts are stubborn things, it is very difficult to defend the honour of the mundé when they present a budget here, to the Parliament, which shows that not only compared to 2010, but also in relation to previous years, the Hungarian budget spends a shamefully small amount of GDP on education and health. As compared to last year's education and the previous year, the growth rate is minimal, a few tenths, but it is still significantly below the EU average; how much is less than the countries where education is important because they are thinking in the future and developing a knowledge-based economy. So while we have around 4 per cent of the budget expenditure on education, the average is 6 to 6.5 per cent, and I did not mention either Finland or any other country where it is significantly higher. But even more shameful is the budget expenditure on health, as the EU average is already below 4 per cent of GDP, compared to 7 per cent, but we have a good figure, because this ratio to GDP, right, Hungary brings it, just because people are forced to spend in private health from their paid, not too little tax, so the Hungarian health care is actually added to the private health care. But what we always say is that the budget is a cake, a cake we share, and it shows a political will and a political objective as to how which sector of this cake benefits. However, it is not only these facts, but it is also worth taking into account public opinion polls, which, of course, show how Hungarian society judges these sectors, and I have to say that it is obvious that Hungarians have a devastating opinion about the health situation; it is obviously easy to tamper with numbers from the ministry, but people feel the tragic situation of health every day, but also education, the state of education and the situation of the majority of Hungarian society are disgruntled. And, you're talking about a society based on economy or work, I would like to quote György Matolcsy, who has said that in the last ten years there has been an abundance of money in Hungary that is unprecedented. Then, in fact, he, the President of the National Bank of Hungary, the genius of the Carpathian Basin, told us how badly the Orbán government has used this in the last ten years, so in fact a significant part of this money was thrown out of the window, and unfortunately, this tremendous wealth was not the winner of health and not education, while, in fact, both sectors are important competitiveness indicators, they are always very proud of the rate of GDP growth, but, isn't it not? Multis must be of great benefit, as thousands of billions of people are taxed as profits from Hungary by only 3-4 percent, and even the state gives them very serious, hundreds of billions of dollars in subsidies; it is enough to refer only to the battery companies, where even 12-13 percent of an investment is paid by Hungarian taxpayers, and then the profits are, of course, not put in the pocket by Hungarian taxpayers, but by these multinational companies. I would therefore like to point out that, unfortunately, if the status law that you have praised is in the best interest of the children, then, in addition to the educational expenditure planned in the budget, they will be exposed, because it is a huge lie, because almost no source, no major source is assigned, that any development can be detected, because the budget figures show that even the possible wage increase of teachers in this area is not covered. Now I'm thinking that you're talking about an average of 800,000 forints for teachers. And here I would like to turn to the weakest point in this status law, the weakest point in the wage increase that you have raised, to include, I don't know, 400 thousand forints to 1 million or 1 million 200 thousand forints here, depending on whether you're interns, educators I. or II. They are classified, as an evaluation criterion, that, of course, the years spent should also be taken into account at some level, and there should be a long list of criteria for looking for, say, an Ózd educator, or an Ózd kindergarten educator 700-800-900 thousand forints, because, after all, the head of the institution should take into account the budgetary power of the institution, i.e. in the given budget year, the personal expenditure framework provided by the state or the district for the institution, and must be managed within it. If, then, let's say, there is a shortage of money and we see from the budget that the cost of education has not been released, then unfortunately, we have to see, in vain, the director could raise the wages of teachers according to the various criteria, if the institution does not have so much money, then he will not be able to raise this salary, and a lot of people have told us how much tangible assets are missing from schools, how much effort it is for parents to make it happen or go through a whole school year in normal circumstances. So I don't think that the head of the institution will save on chalk, toilet paper and various material assets because there is no money to determine the wages of teachers in this framework, so it is simply a scam that appears at the level of wage increases in this law. We hear from the Prime Minister many times that the number of graduates does not necessarily show the true power of a society, and we do not need so many graduates, and then we know their views on the philanthropists absolutely, although there are quite a lot of scientists sitting in your ranks, who are not here right now, but who may be among them, and I have even seen a statement that there are many teachers with a degree in Fidesz representatives. Now, if you don't like catholics so much, you don't need so many graduates, you don't need so many graduates, well, at least give the young people in vocational education and training enough to get the knowledge that XXI. Essential to the economic challenges of the century! But they don't give us enough resources. They're just bleeding this sector out. That's why it's completely incomprehensible. If they do not want educated people, who might think, and do not really accept this ideological thing that we are forced to do, and say, perhaps they have an opinion, but say that it is good that if there are many skilled workers and they do not have to say anything about our affairs, then they should at least have a set of conditions in the education sector so that they can have the knowledge that what is ahead of us in the coming years, decades, they have the right knowledge to do so. And here I would like to refer to István Hiller's speech, who said that this is a fundamental problem with this draft law, that it does not speak of the future, so the challenges of the future are not reflected in this draft legislation, so that the adaptation to the very drastic change in the knowledge transfer process cannot be seen from this draft legislation. There's one more thing I'd like to point out. I have had the pleasure of meeting with the Commissioner for Regional Affairs of the European Commission, whom we had a very good conversation with, because he said that they would already like to give European Union funds so much that we should really only press a button if the government would be willing to meet the conditions; but they also said that, in fact, EU support for education and even for teachers' wages is not necessarily a condition, and even a condition. The teacher's career model is, of course, but the need to fully transform the status system of teachers and to reduce their rights is not a condition for EU funds, but a much larger, more important condition for the education system for teachers, because, in fact, the fundamental essence of this EU support is to improve the quality of education, which can not only be solved by raising wages, and let me also refer to István Hiller. Therefore, a salary increase and a wage increase are necessary, but not sufficient conditions for improving the quality of education. [[9.10]] Well, I've never seen a plan like this before. I'm sure something has been submitted, and I'm sure it's something that's been widely consulted either by teachers or by Hungarian society, but we don't really see the quality training system that teachers want to provide, for which the European Union would actually provide this resource. Instead, they are talking about how to push teachers a little bit, how to set them in line, how to give teachers such classic coke, that they should not be so much bothered by the power in their system of enjoyment, and not by showing how the quality of education can be improved either by training or by tool development, or by anything that is still necessary to draw European Union funds, but rather by molying and, of course, showing the opposition what we can achieve in Brussels and what we can't do in Brussels. But at these council meetings, your ministers sit and the European Council sits at its meetings and your prime minister, who scolds sanctions, and then always votes for them. And then, finally, what is very important for this European Union resource, isn't it, as they say, the fund managers, academic freedom, so the freedom of education, which means not only for them to be able to teach freely, say, in a higher education institution, in a secondary school or in a primary school, but also how public funds move within a given institution, and in universities and higher education institutions organised in foundations, it is a fundamental problem that there is a curatorium of party soldiers, which is the Father God in that institution, and we can see now, too, Stumpf István, the main responsible person of this project has surrendered, because, well, they couldn't fit into their skin there, in that institution, and they had to make a political decision about the Rector; they didn't even have it on his stomach, and then he was running around the whole country, promising 1500 billion EU resources and everything, and the Senates were bowing down to the rector, and they were going to the government. Well, I'm really sorry you guys stayed put, but I've known you for 13 years how this works for you. Summa summarum, if we really value this bill and the budget under trial together, then I have to say that this is a scam, it's a lie, you don't want to improve the quality of education because you don't assign resources to it. You do not call off EU funds because you do not meet the conditions, you do not add the quality improvement programme on the basis of which the EU would give Hungary the money, instead they are giving coke to teachers and they are playing with our future. Shame on you! Thank you very much.
u2023-06-16-400	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you, all of my fellow Members, to avoid personal insults, if possible, because in this case I cannot refrain from enforcing the relevant provisions of the House Rules of Procedure. Among other things, in the case of the leader of the group, there was no need for the use of the label of the Genius of the Carpathians, because I think it was a typical insulting and stigmatizing thing, especially in the case of someone who was not present in the Chamber. Thank you very much. I am now speaking to Secretary of State Péter Takács. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2023-06-16-401	Thank you, Mr. President. After taking over the guard here about two hours ago, I thought I'd respond in such a summary manner. Several people have challenged quality from the side of those who are sitting opposite me. Well, what do you want me to say? So the fact is that now, regardless of which Secretary of State represents the Ministry of Interior, we are trying to pursue a professional level with which a substantive debate can be held. Well, unfortunately, that can't always be said from the other side, because they repeat the same slides and lies, and they live with roughly the same panels, regardless of whether it's health, social issues or education. They constantly mention the lack of consultation, which is not the case, and they threaten to conduct things that have not been properly carried out in the health care sector, only during the worst periods of the Covid epidemic, and they have alarmed health workers, and they are now alerting educators. No one is seeking to abuse these rights as employers, it is simply not realistic, and now there are two years of practice in health care. It's not happening! So there's no need to scare you with that. Once again, false statements about the budget are being made. In nominal terms, we spend nearly two and a half times the amount of education, more than two and a half times the amount of health care, and these GDP percentages always come up to what percentage of who distributes. However, I would like to draw the honourable Members' attention to the fact that if we add up your percentages, it does not come out 100, but 110 or 120. Of these, 100 are GDP and 10-20 percent were financed from IMF loans with extremely poor conditions. You could say it's easy. So, you know, Margaret Thatcher said the problem with socialists is that they're very easy to spend other people's money. Well, if we look at the evolution of the government debt, it goes up in your time, so it goes down at our place, so at your place, so at our place. So if you don't share a hundred perpetuity... I know that during socialism, it's what you're used to, you know, keeping the country on credit, but it's not sustainable, so it's not sustainable. So if we don't distribute 100, but 110, 120, then, of course, we can get higher numbers, so this may look good optically for a given time, but it's not sustainable in the long run. The essence of good governance is to build a sustainable system in the long term. That's all I'd like to say as the resume for the first two hours. I thought it was time to adjust some of these slides. Thank you for your attention.
u2023-06-16-402	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. For a proper speech, Mr Endre Tóth of the Momentum Group has applied. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-06-16-403	Thank you very much for the floor. I'd like to talk a little bit about how teachers feel on the field and why there are so many leavers. If we look at the data, we get a very sad picture. I have asked for public interest data requests for the last two years on how many teachers have left the state district by termination or mutual agreement, and I have received the number, which is that in 2021 3738 and 2022 5316 have left this huge increase, 42 percent. There is obviously a part of those leaving, which is every year, even if there is perfect education, because there are personal reasons, there are personal reasons that are involved, but the trend that we see from one year to the next is that the number of teachers leaving is rising by 42 percent, is very worrying. What's gonna happen this year, I'm gonna ask you, when there's going to be stormy events like this? You are bringing in a law of vengeance that undermines workers' rights at many points in the case of teachers, and, you know, a lot of teachers, nearly 5,000 have already announced that they will resign as a result. So what number of departures will we get in 2023 if you pursue such a policy? And it's obviously not just about statistics, and it's mostly not about statistics, because they're just numbers, but they're not just numbers, they're specific people who put their lives on something, 20-30 years ago, let's say, they've been training teachers, and they're still deciding to leave their beloved profession, which they've done with their hearts and minds. [[9.20]] Last night, when I went out with the protesters, I met three moms who had a XVI. their child goes to district school, and on the morning of that day, so on the morning of yesterday, their teacher quit; Aunt Zita quit. It was written on their board: Auntie Zita quit today because of you! He told you, so I brought this to you. I asked them what exactly happened, because this tablet was so heartbreaking. And then they told me that Aunt Zita was a teacher who every parent wants, who smiles all the time, who really has everything in education, and because of her experience she is absolutely in every part of her body, how to react to situations, and she is really a teacher who is at the best age in this regard, and yet she decided that at the end of this academic year she would stand up and leave the field. Why did you do that? Obviously, your 13-year education policy has played a very harsh and decisive role in this. The fact that wages are currently at the level they are at is simply outrageous; and for example, wages are so confounded that if a teacher enters the field, he cannot expect to increase his salary by gaining experience in the first 15 years. So right now, that's the case, an intern earns the same amount as a 15-year-old teacher on the field with more qualifications. It's just infinitely sad. Let's just think that in other careers, this might be possible for him to leave the university, say, an economist or an engineer, and then he'll go to a company where he'll be offered to pay attention, there's 260 thousand net, so some of that may be taken away from you, and it'll be the same for the next 10-15 years, unless, I don't know, the CEO thinks otherwise, but we don't promise you any increase in wages, because your wages won't automatically increase. So you can't imagine that in the private sector. In the private sector, if inflation is high, prices are rising, the employee goes up to his boss and asks him to raise his salary so that he can maintain his standard of living. In the private sector, if there is another company that gives better salaries, it certainly smokes up the workforce, and there is a healthy competition and a healthy view in many companies that wants their employees to be balanced, so that they can be productive, and from this point of view the Hungarian state is a very bad employer under your governance, and especially during educational governance. So it is simply not good to work for the Hungarian state and especially for the teaching districts, as simple teachers see that they are not valued, they are not valued, while, let's say, the leaders of the district bring home millions of bonuses. This was seen at the end of 2021, and it was also found on my request that from 1 million to 2.5 million dollars were taken home as a year-end reward by the school district managers, while teachers received no award at the end of the year, or possibly received a bejgli or a pack of bacon, but this is clearly not proportionate to a multimillion reward. So not only is there little money, but what is money is also misdistributed, and they spend it buying the loyalty of the leaders, and the teachers don't care about any of you. They're trying to make changes right now, but it's just making the teachers even more insecure, seeing as they're working on a performance lease that they don't know anything about. Anyone who has not been lucky enough to teach in pilot schools or rather, I don't know what the good word is, then he has no idea what criteria will be put in place to calculate performance wages. In addition, we know that the wage increase will not be enough to generate adequate living conditions and wage conditions in the first years. We also know that until December, teachers will not see any wage increases in their accounts, they will receive them in December, if everything goes well, their first, slightly higher salary, but this will not be such an increase that the difference is felt, and in an environment where the absorption effect of private and other areas is enormous. In many cases, a teacher is welcome in a multinational, a private company, or even in other areas of the public sector, where they pay better. So he's got an alternative, at least many of them, and if he sees there's no future here, then he's gonna go. And even though they're raising some now, according to their promises, they've been promising for a very long time, so the teachers are pretty tired of this, that they're always getting promises, and then, when they look at their accounts next month, they still have the same salary, or even if they're 8-9 percent higher, inflation has already eaten up that raise, so there's gonna be a raise, but in this situation, it's still not gonna be enough, so the pay for alternative occupations will still be much higher. We know that at present about 60% of the average degree wage is earned by an educator. If he goes into the private sector, he's got a good chance of finding this difference. If you raise this to, say, 65% this year, it's still a very small amount. But if, in this situation, you want to introduce performance wages and tell the director to divide this salary and determine which educator will pay, then this will give rise to huge conflicts, because there won't be enough money, there won't be enough money for everyone to have a reliable, good standard of living by, or for the directors to say that it's good, I will try to measure who's performance is very professional, and I will really do a significant differentiation. There are huge differences in your defined bands, hundreds of percent differences between teachers in the same experience order, so if someone is going to meet certain criteria very well and their leader considers that he is doing very well, then in theory he could earn a million gross. Yeah, well, it's just that the whole wage bill is not gonna be enough to give someone a high salary, but someone else is gonna have to take it from their salary, and in a situation where they can't generate a uniform high standard because they don't get enough money to do it, it's gonna lead to huge tensions, because if someone wants to reward their performance with a competitive salary, even in the private sector, then they're gonna have to reduce their salary compared to the current one, which is a very sad thing, and I think they shouldn't put such a burden on the directors. Performance wages can be introduced if there are so many wages that everyone, the worst earner, will be able to live on a decent standard of living. So you don't have to differentiate so that you can't pay the bills at the end of the month, because you've done worse, but you've got to reward those who have done well, but those who do badly don't have to either, let's say, starve or have problems with paying the bills. So that's the problem here, in a tight pay situation like this, bringing in the pay-per-view. Plus, they're bringing him in without a proper settlement. So now they're going to vote for this law, obviously, because they vote for everything they bring in, and then they're going to introduce this system, but we don't know how yet. That's gonna come out later, and you're gonna give your own education board a blank check to create a performance lease. Believe me, this will create enormous tensions at a point where it will actually generate different wages, and some of these wages will be very few, and poor-performing teachers will feel that, now, I am even less valued, my work is even less appreciated than before, so why don't I leave this field then? So a new wave of exits can be generated by the point where you introduce this performance rent, and the first results appear, and many face the fact that they are either falling or that they are not growing at all, while others are better off. [[9.30]] So this could be done with much more preparatory work and the preconditioning of a general high wage level, if it had to be done at all, which you have not done. But it will be counterproductive, and many more teachers will leave the field. Another problem for educators, which is such a soft thing, is a quality thing about how education management communicates with teachers. We see that the education sector is not like other sectors, because, let's say, a Ministry of Economy is less closely connected to companies, because a company operates under market conditions and doesn't always look at what the minister is doing. So the person who makes a living from the market is not important, but a teacher or a director is constantly looking at the new rules of education, because it is a large system that has a lot in common. Teachers are in a kind of employment relationship, and there are huge maintenance workers who give jobs to hundreds of thousands of workers. So, it is a centralized thing, especially under your control, that the Minister of Education would be more important, it would be more important to have such a person at all, because there is no right now, and there is no Ministry of Education. There's a minister who's responsible for education, but he said in front of the teachers that he doesn't know anything about education. This is also a communication problem and a kind of disrespect from the government to appoint a man responsible for education who says he doesn't know anything about education, and after taking power and starting his career as a minister, even three-quarters of a year later, he says he doesn't want to say that he doesn't want to sound professional, because he doesn't know about education. This is a disrespect to the teachers and educators, students and parents, which is rightfully annoying to many people. But we can continue to see what the government's communication style is for teachers. We see who we say protests, who, say, is on strike, what they do. Some have been affected by labour retaliation, especially those who have used the means of civil disobedience. Teachers started to strike, and you didn't do that when you started listening to their arguments and making concessions in the requests they made a year and a half ago, but what they did: they twisted out of their hands the means of legal strike. They made the strike impossible, made it invisible. This is also a communication message that has upset a lot of teachers, and a lot of teachers leave the field simply because of their messages, because they feel that this arrogance is intolerable, the way you behave with them. So whatever laws they make when they're in communication style, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] and the messages they send to teachers will not change, then more and more teachers will stand up in this educational system. Thank you very much.
u2023-06-16-404	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members, who would like to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr State Secretary if he would like to take the opportunity to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Dr. Péter Takács: I'd like to make a closing.]] [[Dr. Péter Takács: I'd like to make a closing.]] What's the closing? (Dr. Péter Takács: I would like to make a closing!) Thank you. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-06-16-405	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, To sum up the events of the previous hours, I think that a significant new argument, a serious reason, has not been mentioned from the other side. The necessary consultations have been conducted by the Ministry of Interior, and I am particularly sorry that Parliament's parties have not taken part in them with sufficient seriousness from the opposition side. However, overall, I am convinced that our bill on the pedagogical career will bring the issue of Hungarian education forward. I ask both the ladies and gentlemen and the teachers subject to the law to consider the facts, to judge the bill submitted by the Ministry of Interior on the basis of the facts. I ask Members of this House to vote in favour of the package of laws that we expect to place the teaching career on a worthy and respected shelf in Hungary. I call on the opposition representatives to do everything possible to ensure that the funds needed to raise teachers' wages from the European Union arrive in Hungary as soon as possible. Thank you, honourable Members, for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-06-16-406	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! The amendment proposals can be submitted next week at 4 p.m. We have reached the end of the meeting of our agendas. No one applied for a post-meeting speech. Thank you all for your hard work so far. I would like to inform you that the next meeting of Parliament will take place on the recommendation of the House Committee or in accordance with the presidential decision. The meeting's closed. Have a nice weekend, everyone.
