u2023-07-31-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good afternoon. Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, The 3rd Special Meeting of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Dear Parliament, I declare that 49 Members are members of the Parliament Act 35. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the National Assembly initiated the convening of an extraordinary meeting of the T/638. Bill H/4669 on the measures needed to help Hungarian families due to the restrictions planned by the Orbán government Proposal for a Decision No IX of 2021 on Public Interest Trust Foundations T/4695 amending Act T/4695 to strengthen the rules on conflicts of interest. Proposal H/4703 on the provision of funding for Erasmus and Horizon programmes. Proposal for a Decision No 13, T/4293 on strengthening Hungary's climate protection commitments Bill No.2 and XLIV of 2020 on climate protection. T/4368. For the purpose of negotiating bill No 1. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is now time for the speeches before the agenda. Mr Máté Kanász-Nagy applied for a pre-meeting speech from the LMP Group. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-07-31-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, First of all, it is sad to say not first that the members of the government, but also the members of the government, take the operation of Parliament as seriously as they do. It seems that they do not respect the authority and functioning of this House to appear at this meeting, even though we would indeed have discussed important issues. I would also like to talk about an important topic before the agenda, as the government's main policy continues in the summer to make Hungary a battery ring. We also see in the summer that Péter Szijjártó continues to fly to China and, after each such trip, brings home a new battery factory to Hungary. It is obvious that Péter Szijjártó and not the Hungarian government do not decide the fate of these investments, but practically Péter Szijjártó flies to China to tell the decision of Chinese leaders, CEOs and battery company managers. In China, they learn about where a battery plant or such plant is being built in Hungary before the Hungarian government, especially the population that suffers from the operation of these factories and these investments. We are no longer surprised to see the latest announcements making decisions above the head of the local population. The news is now about Nyíregyháza, and the latest news is that another battery production plant will be established in Debrecen. Neither the Debrecen nor the Nyíregyháza have been asked about this. But they did not ask the carpenters, the Gödi, the Komároms, and many other settlements, in the case of Fót, in the case of Szigetszentmiklós, in the case of Bátonyterenye no one is asked to want such a factory in their immediate neighbourhood. In connection with the latest factory, the Chinese Sunwoda Electronics company is set up at Nyíregyháza, and even in February, the government leaders who are pro-government or close to it stated that there is no establishment of any factory, there is no such intention, and then what God gives, a few months later they announce that there will be a factory in Nyíregyháza. This must be protested by all possible means, since battery enrichment has very serious effects on residents and the whole country. First of all, it is absolutely amazing that they want to overload Hungary with these investments in the middle of the water crisis, the climate crisis and the energy crisis. These investments have enormous energy needs, huge water demand and are mostly based on agricultural land, so they are greenfield investments. These investments have very serious environmental risks. For example, only for one investment in Debrecen can we know from various documentation that 40 tonnes of harmful material is released annually to its immediate environment. It is said in the document that 40 tonnes of harmful substances will spread out and thus spread out into the environment. A significant part of this is sulphur dioxide, but nickel or cobalt is released into the environment even under permits. This has a very, very serious adverse effect on health, doesn't it? These battery companies are risky and dangerous. Technically, these multinationals, these large battery companies, are taking profits out of Hungary, leaving pollution here for us with all the negative effects. We also see how low wages workers work in these factories, and they typically no longer employ Hungarian workers, because there are no Hungarian workers. Whoever's here is either working or leaving this country, hundreds of thousands of people have left. Therefore, they are installing tens of thousands of guest workers from Central Asia, the Far East or even from China. We see that there is a record low corporate tax. These companies barely pay anything in the budget, but they profit more from the budget, because they have only received HUF 1050 billion of direct support from the Hungarian government since 2016 and we have not counted on indirect other infrastructure subsidies and investments. Orbán recently said that there are two suns in the sky, so in addition to the United States of America and the Western world, he spoke about China. From this, the Prime Minister concluded that we must be connected to both the great suns and the power. But this is the connection between addiction, submission, vulnerability and exploitation, this is a very, very unequal relationship. This must be stopped, we must not let Hungary become a battery company. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition parties.]]
u2023-07-31-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The speaker before the agenda of the Dialogue Group is Mr Bence Tordai. There you go. You have the floor. [[13.10]]
u2023-07-31-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Citizens, Dear Parliament, Here we stand on the last day of July 2023, at the end of the hottest month in human history. We have reached the limit of 1.5 degrees of warming, which mankind has not wanted to reach until 2100; there is an amazing heat wave in the world that measures temperatures of 46-48 degrees in southern Europe, and when Péter Szijjártó visits China, he can look at the mercury fiber of the thermometer at 53 degrees. The waters of the Atlantic have warmed at one point to 38 degrees, but the Mediterranean is more than 29 degrees, and if we look at the temperature of the Danube at Paks, we also see values of about 31 degrees. This heat is devastating, this heat is cruel, it is no longer global warming, it is an era of global heat, as the Secretary-General of the United Nations said. Let us add that in two days' time, the day of overuse of the Earth will come, and from then on we will use the reserves of our children and grandchildren this year, and every year we will reach this point ever earlier. In this situation, a solution should be given to this global crisis, this very serious crisis affecting Hungary, as well as the Hungarian people, and it could now be negotiated here in Parliament, as the Dialogue-Greens have two proposals that would be on the agenda today if the Fidesz Members had been so kind as to come into their work to discuss laws as they would be obliged to do. But no, that is not going to happen today, so we will not talk about the amendment of the climate bill, we cannot talk about promoting the use of renewable energy, we cannot talk about the lifting of the ban on wind power plants, and we cannot talk about the crisis that is perhaps the most hit of Hungary in the whole climate crisis, the lack of water, and that is, as at least, Benedek Jávor, the MEP for Dialogue-Greens [[Sic!]] he wrote in his post a few days ago, which is perhaps the most threatening aspect of the climate crisis in the Great Plain, but in Hungary as a whole. In such a situation of water scarcity, new batteries are brought here, but there is a very important development, a very important change that I would like to draw attention to: that they are no longer proud of. Now we have to find out that there is another battery plant in Debrecen this time, that Minister Szijjártó will not stand up to it very proudly, but that this will be revealed in a hidden international investment magazine. So, they realized what the Dialogue-Greens, other greens and responsible opponents have been saying for some time now that we are not asking for battery factories, Hungary does not have the capacity to install batteries in such quantities. Finally, it seems that the government has also tracked it and priced it that it is completely politically irresponsible, so I hope that from now on the brakes will be pulled in and there will be a change in this area as well. But it is clear that not only are they not proud of the arrival of new battery companies, but the secrecy of the operation of the people here is the only thing that goes on. It was necessary to find out in a separate investigative journalism that there were not one, but two, fatal victims of the accident at the island battery factory in Szentmiklós, and since then another extremely serious injury was suffered by a worker in Debrecen. This is the price of, among other things, the relocation of the battery plants. But not only is the government at war with renewable energies, it not only exacerbates the water crisis, but also seems to be completely wrong about fossil energy. Dependence on Russia and the great pecking down of it is more important to him than anything else. This is shown by the gas crisis that has developed in recent days, or at least for those who have faced hundreds of thousands of accounts, while using natural gas during the average consumption. Many tens of thousands of families, hundreds of thousands of people, have been affected by the Fidesz government's inability to govern, not being able to think of a political product called a reduction in rent that he has been so proud of for years. What's happening now is that you have consumers crediting the amazing gas prices, making them pay the price of their messed-up energy policy, and compared to that, they're not even capable of doing that, they're not brave enough to stand up, they're taking responsibility, they're asking for forgiveness, and they're not even capable of improving the situation. It is clear that the Fidesz government is completely irresponsible about the climate and energy crisis, although it really wouldn't have much to do, perhaps just to come in and follow the opposition proposals, to follow the green proposals that guarantee our survival. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-07-31-4	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! Mr László Toroczkai, Head of the Group of our country, applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2023-07-31-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We are here now because the Momentum and its allies, the Balliberal parties, are obviously under orders from their masters to talk about Sweden's accession to NATO. [[Uproar, noise from the opposition benches. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] Obviously, you must serve him somehow, be grateful for all the American ways, for the training you receive in America. I don't know if Dávid Bedő, Anna Oros agreed with the representative of the World Bank on the steps in front of the Capitol, but I don't want to talk about it, because I think that Hungarians are intrigued and interested in very different things. For example, how we got to the point of paying 5500 billion forints a year for social security while there is no money available, the government does not have the money to camp children suffering from severe muscular dystrophy in Agárd and therefore, for economic reasons, the guest workers of the battery plant in Ivanča are placed there. Or how we got to the point where the state register in this country is completely empty, so they cast more and more faces on the working Hungarians, and more and more people are thinking about how they can escape from this country. Well, that's what I'd like to talk about in these five minutes, since we're together, and at least you're here. I'll start with a little personal. [[Moray from the opposition benches.]] I knew you'd be very excited, but the reason I'm telling you is because at least you're here and the fidesz benches are empty. The fact is that in 1996, when I started my political career from a housing complex in Szeged when I was 18 years old, I started on this very long road, because I saw in 1996 that the governments of that time, with the so-called robbing privatization, were, by the way, a government with MSZP, SZDSZ, stealing this country, squandering national wealth, and giving it to various oligarchs, global, globalist oligarchs, while of course building their own oligarchs, which, for example, became today's Tamás Leisztinger and others, we know how the global corporations were filled with money. It was a long journey from 1996 and I was not supported by TÁSZ, Amnesty International and the Americans, like you, the Momentum, and I received legal help from my poor lawyer father, just as many Hungarian people did not receive legal help from TÁSZ. After all, we arrived here, after a very long journey in 2022, after 26 years I am now here in Parliament, and I can tell you, all the more so because you are the heirs of the then MSZP-SZDSZ government that, unfortunately, since 2010 Fidesz has been doing exactly what you have been doing. Since 2010, we have seen the same thing about global lords, global corporations and global moneymen filling their pockets the same way as the parties of the Balliberian alliance did before, and they have given the multinationals three times as much money since 2010 as the Balliberal Governments between 2004 and 10. What we see is that all this was about you and Fidesz feeding oligarchs, the global and domestic oligarchs that you have brought to life or at least to your service. These things have to be paid. Who pays the price? The Hungarian worker pays the price, the people pay the price to Lőrinc Mészáros, Tamás Leisztinger and the global lords. Fidesz and you, following exactly the same economic policy, finance them with the money of Hungarian workers, when the current government imposes an extra profit tax on anyone, either MOL or such a global company, ultimately it is passed on to the Hungarians, and the Hungarian employee pays the price. If the Hungarians do not understand why we are in such a situation that we can only compete with Bulgaria in terms of real earnings and Romania has reached us, then that is why we must feed these extremely hungry oligarchs. This is what these oligarchs are known for, that nothing is ever enough. Nothing is enough to feed them, because your existence depends on these oligarchs. The only one party in this Parliament, the Balliberal alliance and the Fidesz, is the only third way around which you cannot say one oligarch, who would finance mediums for us. In your case, let's say the RTL Club, where I will never be called in in a stinking life, so that I can express my opinion freely in the spirit of freedom of speech, is fed by their global masters to the RTL Club. There's the KESMA Foundation for Fidesz. We know precisely that they feed that media empire with the money of Hungarian taxpayers through Lőrinc Mészáros and the others. [[13.20]] Now, there's no such thing as our country's movement. We do not need to feed oligarchs, which is why we will draw up laws, draft laws and submit them to Parliament and see how you will vote, which will prohibit all oligarchs, domestic and international, global oligarchs from participating in public procurement or any kind of support. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And then he'll be able to finance psychics, parties or anything else. I would like to know how you will support this. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of our country.]]
u2023-07-31-6	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear House, Fellow Members! Member Brenner Koloman of the Jobbik Group has applied for a speech before the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-07-31-7	[[The speaker did not put his microphone on.]] Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, it is those who are here from the other side of the Fidesen world. [[Dóra Dúró: No microphone. Microphone! Dr. István Apáti: We have time.]] Excuse me.
u2023-07-31-8	I'd like to have the congressman's time frame restored, please. [[The speaker puts his microphone on.]]
u2023-07-31-9	Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President, I apologize. Dear House, My fellow Members and my fellow Members who are here! Fidesz fatally neglects the Hungarian university world. Once again, they have shown this today, as they have not come to this extraordinary meeting, on behalf of the Jobbik-Conservatives we could have discussed a proposal for a decision on the Erasmus scholarship of Hungarian university students and on the EU funds of Hungarian teaching and research fellows in Horizon. Of course, it all started with why Tibor Navracsics hasn't resigned yet. After all, Minister, he promised that at the moment that if the European Union funds did not come, he would take his hat. Where's your hat, Minister? I'd ask if you were here. [[Pointing to the ministerial seat of Dr. Tibor Navracsics:]] He's not here. In addition, the Hungarian university world is very dependent on these resources because of Fidesz's anti-knowledge and intellectual policy. And right now, in recent months and even years, he has suffered very great disadvantages because of the irresponsible policy of the Hungarian university world, Fidesz; as we have said from the very beginning myself, as rapporteur of the Council of Europe, on the subject of academic autonomy and academic freedom, we have indicated that there will be problems with universities with the Fidesz Curatorium. I mean, it's a foothold for academic autonomy since the Middle Ages. A recent example of this, an ectant example of the Rector's application of the Liszt Ferenc Academy of Music, where the responsible minister here tries to write out the rector's application in such a way that he seems to allow the Senate-supported candidate to leave, then he puts in three passes that the university citizens have not been able to choose their own rector since the Middle Ages. It is a shame and a shame that this may happen in our country in the year 2023! In addition, during the course of teacher training, it was now possible to read in the days, and unfortunately, I learned earlier from my former university leaders that sufnituning was being prepared. In other ways, I cannot describe what the educational politicians of Fidesz are currently doing with teacher training, because after 14 years they have slowly realized that there is a shortage of teachers, which we have been calling attention to for many years. That is why we have been saying for a very long time on behalf of the Jobbik-Conservatives that we need a Klebelsberg turnaround in the whole education system, which means that not 6 but at least 8 percent of the amount spent on education should be reached in proportion to GDP. Moreover, in the Hungarian university world, we should finally pay university teachers wages that do not reach Austrian wages, not German wages, but, let's say, the wages of our Slovenian, Czech or Polish colleagues. Because the Hungarian university world is going to say that if you go to an international conference, first of all, you will be asked what you think of the country in which you live in the one-party overpower of Orbán; on the other hand, we are treated as virtually a backward country on the international stage, not only in the university world, unfortunately also because of Fidesz's anti-national foreign policy. So we should have discussed very important issues here, so that we could finally have a university town, so that everyone in Budapest would now be looking for a sublet from college students - but no, Fidesz wanted to build a Fudan University in the area where now its board of trustees has disappeared. A responsible government, which would care about the Hungarian university world, Hungarian university students and Hungarian academic-research colleagues, would pay a proper wage to university teachers in a normal Hungary, and would pay a sufficiently high scholarship to university students not to emigrate, since we are slowly beginning to find that Hungarian young people are no longer starting to go to Hungarian universities from elite high schools, unfortunately. And this exodus will lead to one of our greatest national tragedies. It is no coincidence that Fidesz wants to place hundreds of thousands of economic migrants in our country in a shameful way because there is no more labour; instead of what the Jobbik-Conservatives have long said so that everyone can thrive in their own homeland. That is why we have re-launched our pay-receiving programme, our previous wage-Union programme, because it is important for young Hungarians to come home and start a family in a decent civil democracy and live a thriving and happy life at home. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2023-07-31-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! Mr Imre Komjathi spoke before the agenda of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-07-31-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian Socialist Party supports Sweden's accession to NATO. We do, and I think we have the least reason to explain this, because it was Gyula Horn who cut through the Iron Curtain, who said first of the political decision makers that the nation was in the Western federal system. So allow me to talk about another matter that is very important to us. I am convinced that, as President Erdoğan allows the Hungarian government, even the passive Fidesses of Parliament today will vote for Swedish accession. However, I am not sure at all that the situation of today's Hungarian pensioners and the protection of future pensioners will be given the same special attention. More simply, it is increasingly cruel and vulnerable to grow old in Hungary today. I would therefore like to take advantage of your attention and set out the most important problems and proposals in this regard. First of all, let us agree not to increase the retirement age for a specified period of time. Look around any state health facility in the morning, see many elderly people waiting for their turn, and tell me who should be standing next to a work bench or sitting next to a wheel. It is also important that we agree that our elderly people need care and that the health of Hungarian citizens will not improve by keeping them in work. Not now. Not yet. I would like to applaud him as a left-winger, if we were to keep him there, if the mass of Hungarian citizens were so much healthier and more active that we could retire them too early. This is becoming less and less true, so we must not increase the age limit. Second, let us decide that the retirement date will be flexible downhill. I want you to understand the stakes. Here we decide between life and death. If you work on a shift under dangerous circumstances, your body wears out more, gets older faster, and you'd rather finish the job either earlier or with a lower pension instead of retiring as a wreck and die soon after. Let me briefly refer to personal experiences in this regard. Before 2010, early retirement was still possible at work. Those who had 40 years of service or were 57 years of age could retire. The majority took advantage of this opportunity, as workers mostly worked shifts, and indeed, 30-40 years of shifts eat people up. Those who retired at the time are still pensioners living a good quality of life. I'll meet them at the store, at the post office; they work. I meet them and meet those who mourn their loved ones. When the Orbáns came, in 2010, the workers were sentenced to life in prison at the touch of a button. At the age of 60-62, my colleagues who are affected by this say they're dying like flies. Cancer, stroke, heart attack. Instead of strapping a garden swing to the granddaughter's peach tree, they could finally go fishing, and these people will say a quick and tragic farewell to life. It's gonna be a matter of a few years before they've been worked to death for good and literally. [[13.30]] My third point is the previous pair: in jobs where the age primarily raises knowledge, gives me experience, and the physical challenge is less crucial, it should be possible and even encouraged to work on pensions, for example in the case of teachers and doctors. It is itself an enemy of a society that keeps the elderly with worn hips and wheezing lungs by assembly line, but retiring the one whose irreplaceable knowledge has accumulated over the decades, and he would be happy to give them away. It is the decision of a state that does not love its citizens and does not value their work for the community. It was unworthy of taking the disability pension, humiliating the termination of the service pension. The MSZP has a proposal for a complete and complex pension reform. Please don't let us be swept away by sound headlines and click-hunting tabloids when we're trying to manage the fate of the country, the welfare of a people. I ask you to begin a meaningful dialogue on the situation of pensioners and future pensioners, because we really are in the 24th hour. And yes, as soon as we can, we will also vote for Swedish NATO accession. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the ranks of MSZP, DK, Momentum, LMP, Dialogue and Jobbik.]]
u2023-07-31-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! Mr Ferenc Gelencsér, leader of the Group of the Momentum has applied for a speech before the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-07-31-13	Mr President, Dear House, I prepared a speech for today's meeting, but I look around, and I see that there is no one here, there are no Members here, there are no Members at work, I am facing empty benches. Where are the pro-government representatives on their working days, why don't they represent their constituents, why do they take their salary if they don't come to work? Is that what the government representatives think would represent? Doesn't the government representatives care that much about the war next door? Today, in the Hungarian Parliament, we should talk about Hungary's security, and with their absence, the pro-government representatives clearly send the message that they are not interested in Hungary and the security of Hungarians. There's a war going on next door, and it's a perfectly legitimate concern for everyone. Hungary is in a lucky position; by being a member of NATO, we Hungarians are safe. We will be even safer if the military defence alliance expands with other EU countries, as Hungary's primary interest is an economically and militaryly strong Europe. Let's start by telling the obvious truth. From the very first moment, it is clear that the most important task is to create peace. Anyone who claims that there are pro-wars in this country is a moral single dish. Now let me quote the Prime Minister, who rarely does, but was telling the truth when he spoke about the need for strength to make peace. What is Hungary's power, so its peace, provided by what? The number of the strong army and his allies. The government's building it, but our allies are running out of weight. In fact, if anyone signs up for an ally role, they'll slam the door on him. Sweden's alliance strengthens the security of our country, guarantees peace. Sweden has been our partner for a long time in the European Union and could also be our partner within the framework of NATO, because this is in the common interest of all of us, because the Russian-Ukrainian war that has been going on for a year and a half is threatening the peace of the entire continent. The accession of Sweden is being hindered by the government, which, after the devastation of the 1956 Revolution, was the loudest in favour of Hungarian refugees, and which was among the first to accept our countrymen fleeing to neighbouring Austria. More than 7,000 Hungarians have been accepted by Sweden in a rather strange way by the Hungarian government in return for this historic assistance. And how did you get to today? 12 months ago, the Hungarian government submitted the bill to decide on the accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO, and by October 2022 it turned out that the government did not really want to put these issues on the agenda. For a year now, the decision to do so has been constantly being rejected when we want to put it on the agenda. Last November, the Prime Minister himself promised that we would vote on the request to join the two states at the first parliamentary meeting of 2023. It is July, and the vote on the Swedes has still not come before Parliament. For 13 years, we have been hearing that no one can order the government except the Hungarian people. Well, in 1997, the Hungarians voted with an overwhelming majority to become a member of the Western military alliance, and the security of the Hungarians is guaranteed if this alliance is strengthened with the Swedes now. However, we also see that the Hungarian government is not sovereign. I don't know how you are with him, but I'm not Turkish, Hungarians can't be commanded by the Turkish President. The government goes to Brussels to play hardball, but regularly kneels before Ankara and Moscow. What government is it that dances at the convenience of the Turkish President instead of the interests of the Hungarians? What does the president of Turkey hold the government with? Because in the case of Russia, we have tips, like agent files. And even though the government says that there is no correlation between the delay in the accession of the Swedes and the Turkish-Hungarian relations, it was just recently that Zsolt Németh, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, acknowledged that there was a continuous consultation between the Hungarian and Turkish governments. It's a farce, a public joke, what the government has done on this issue, just to meet the bosses of the autocrat. I do not see that Hungarian interests are represented in the EU and NATO, the more so is Russia. Russia kills Hungarians on the Ukrainian front, I do not see the Hungarian government working to increase the number of our allies. What is the Hungarian government really working on? Because not on the security of Hungary and on the creation of peace. Let's just say the truth: the government just doesn't work. This government is incompetent, and it's only a matter of time before it fails. And we are doing everything we can to ensure that Hungary is no longer able to be dragged down with them. Thank you. [[Applause from the lines of MSZP, DK, Momentum, LMP and Dialogue.]]
u2023-07-31-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear House, Fellow Members! Member László Varju has applied for a speech from the DK Group before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-07-31-15	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, There are mistakes and there are sins. A government can make bad decisions out of good intentions, but it can deliberately harm its own people because it is easier to rule and rob a divided, crippled, intimidated people. This is how Viktor Orbán and his government have committed serious crimes against the Hungarians for 13 years now, but he is not here today because he does not want to face his horrors. It is Viktor Orbán's fault that Hungary is the only EU and NATO country that opposes the accession of Sweden to NATO, as the Fidesz faction could have voted for this accession even at this meeting. Thus, after the Finns, another state with a strong army would be Hungary's military ally, strengthening the defence of our country. Orbán did not do this, however, because he is committed not to the Hungarians, but to Vladimir Putin, President of Russia, and the Hungarian delay serves his interests, a dictator who, like him, considers his people to be the subject of looting, who, like him, removes billions of public money from the state register with his relatives and friends. From whom he bought Russian gas very expensively to collect its price to this day with a brutal gas price increase in the Hungarians. Putin and Orbán are still financing the war with their dirty gas and oil deals, and they are winning what they started against Hungary's neighbour, the independent Ukraine. This war has become the war of Viktor Orbán. However, Hungary, in the interests and interests of the Hungarians, demands that our joint alliance, NATO, be even stronger with the accession of Sweden, thus deterring Russia from continuing and from another war. For this reason, the Democratic Coalition has repeatedly proposed ratification of the Swedish accession on the agenda of the Parliament. However, the Fidesz fraction has always said no, because Viktor Orbán is working for Vladimir Putin, who wants to enforce it by war, and he represents them. This is how Viktor Orbán's sin became that not only NATO, but also the European Union, does not regard the Orbán government as a partner, which requires millions of Hungarians to suffer. Because it was not enough that the members of the Orbán clan and their friends, Fidesz billionaires dependent on the power of Orbán, have been paying off public and European funds for 13 years, and it was not enough to take the leadership of the universities themselves out of the possibility of joining the board of trustees, making them party soldiers, paid off, with millions of salary, and now they are surprised to exclude Hungarian universities, students, our own children from the possibility of European relations, research, learning, including the Erasmus programme. [[13.40]] Or are they just pretending to wonder when they want it exactly? Dismiss me. The Democratic Coalition presented the bill of the shadow government of Klára Dobrev to exclude Fidesz politicians from the leadership of university foundations for the continuation of the two EU programmes. This could be accepted by the Fidesz by Viktor Orbán in one snap. But Orbán isn't here, he's not snapping, and there's no learning, no research. Orbán's sin is to take the opportunity away from the majority of Hungarians. Due to rising inflation in Orbán, salaries and pensions lose their value from month to month, while factory billionaires lose their value [[Sic!]] They're getting richer. With the wrong decisions of the Orbán government, which supports an affluent minority, it makes the majority more vulnerable with new restrictions. The brutal increase in food prices, the seven-time increase, is followed by new increases in prices; the CSOK, the baby shower loan, the majority of Hungarian couples preparing to have children today's chances of starting their own lives. Next year there will be another tax increase, petrol price increase, housing and withdrawal of a drug promotion discount for the Hungarians. Yet the Democratic Coalition, the shadow government, has made a number of proposals to the Parliament's table, which would curb inflation in Orbán and make it unnecessary to cripple families. The Social Democratic Shadow Government, led by Dobrev Klára, is prepared to break down inflation in Orbán after the change of government, instead of prices, wages and pensions will finally rise. Once again, Hungary will be made a respected member of NATO and the European Union, and Hungarian universities will be brought back to Europe's bloodstream. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2023-07-31-16	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. I declare that Máté Kocsis, István Fidesz and István Simicskó, the leader of the KDNP faction, sent a letter to the President of the Parliament regarding today's meeting. I now ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the letter sent to the Speaker. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2023-07-31-17	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, Opposition representatives are the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. Law 35. § (1) of the Parliament called for the extraordinary meeting of the Parliament to be convened in accordance with the T/638. Final vote of bill No 7 and the H/4669 and H/4703. Proposal for a Decision No T/4695, T/4293. and T/4368. For the purpose of negotiating bill No 1. We hereby inform the President that the parliamentary group of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Alliance and the Christian Democratic People's Party's Group of Parliament will not attend the meeting of the House Committee convened on 27 July 2023 or the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on 31 July 2023. Regulation No 10/2014 on certain house rules [[ANNEX II 24.]] Parliamentary resolution 25. § (3) (b) we initiate the Parliament to repeat the vote in the event of a raise by hand vote at its extraordinary session on 31 July 2023 using a vote counting machine. Budapest, 26 July 2023 Respectfully, Máté Kocsis Group leader, Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association parliamentary group; Dr. István Simicskó Group leader, Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party
u2023-07-31-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear House, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. First, we will decide on the motion to amend the agenda. The Group of the Mi Hazan Group has proposed that the Parliament's proposal for a meeting on 31 July should be amended to amend the T/638 on the publication of the Protocol on the accession of the Kingdom of Sweden to the North Atlantic Treaty. The final vote on the motion should not take place. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] What I can tell is that the Parliament is apparently not capable of a resolution. At the request of the Group of our country, the vote will now be repeated with a ballot counting machine. In accordance with the motion, I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the motion to amend the agenda of our country. Please vote by using a ballot counting machine. [[Vote.]] I declare that in the vote the number of votes in favour is 5, the number of votes in favour is 39 and the number of votes in favour is 0. That is to say, 44 people voted on the basis of which I declare that the Parliament does not have a quorum. Dear Parliament, Although I have just stated that the Parliament is not capable of a quorum, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the House Rule 15 of the Rules of Procedure of the Rules of Procedure is not a quorum. Paragraph 6 of Article 6 also provides for a decision on the motion to change the agenda and on the proposal on the agenda, the two votes together form the content of the agenda. Thus, it is of guarantee importance that I put the proposal on the agenda to the vote, despite our lack of a decision. On this basis, therefore, we are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. The Parliament would decide without discussion by raising hands, but in view of the outcome of our decision and the fact that Fidesz and the KDNP factions have initiated the repetition of the vote using a ballot counting machine, we will hold the vote with the use of a voting machine. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the proposal on the agenda. Please vote by using a ballot counting machine. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the number of votes in favour is 45, the number not voting is 2, the number of votes in favour is 0. There are 47 votes in total. On this basis, I find that the Parliament is still not a quorum, so it is not a quorum. Dear Parliament, On the basis of written information from the Fidesz and KDNP faction leaders, as well as announcements concerning the absence of additional representatives, I do not see the possibility to restore the quorum today. Based on this, the House Rules of Decision 14. In accordance with paragraph 2 of Section 2 of this Article, I shall establish the list of missing representatives. In the absence of a proposal on the agenda adopted, no items on the agenda may be discussed and no comments after the agenda shall be taken. I will also inform you that the next meeting of the Parliament will take place as recommended by the House Committee. [[Interventions from the opposition: Shame! The Turks will vote.]] The meeting's closed. I wish you all a good summer.
