u2023-03-31-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good afternoon, fellow Members. I warmly welcome all of you and welcome all of you who are monitoring our meeting today. The 10th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that I will be assisted by notary Ágnes Vadai and notary András Aradszki. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. [[Noise. Move.]] Please take your seats and check that your card has been properly placed in the ballot counting machine. I would also like to remind you that there will be a vote, so I would like to ask for a little more silence and more attention. In today's decisions, we will also decide on the adoption of a proposal requiring a qualified majority. I would like to draw your attention to the decision-making rule of 50. § 3, if Parliament does not adopt a provision requiring a qualified majority in the final vote of the bill, this also extends without a further separate decision to the omission of the provision referring to the fundamentality of the unaccepted regulation. In this case, the final vote by a simple majority shall take place on the text of the proposal thus amended. Here comes the Government of Hungary and the World Food Programme. [[WFP]] T/3088 on the publication of the Agreement establishing the WFP Global Business Service Centre. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the original, submitted text of the bill. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3088. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 178 votes in favour, 5 votes against and 1 abstention. Next up is the H/2280 on the adoption of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank's business report and report for 2021. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/2280. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 131 votes to 53, with no abstentions. It follows the XXV of 2022 on Hungary's central budget for 2023. T/2667. Final vote of bill No 1. CXCIV of 2011 on Hungary's economic stability. Act T/2667/85 and Act T/2667/85. It sent a single proposal to the President of the Fiscal Council. Opinion of the Council on the granting of a preliminary contribution T/2667/88. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I would like to welcome Dr. Árpád Kovács, President of the Fiscal Council, to whom the House Rule of Decision 96. In accordance with paragraph 2a of Section 2a, I now give the floor. Here you go, Mr. President, to the stand. [[Dr. Árpád Kovács enters the pulpit.]] I'll give you the floor now. Here you go, Mr. President, to the stand. (Dr. Árpád Kovács enters the pulpit. ) Mr. President, you have the floor.
u2023-03-31-1	Mr President, Dear Parliament, On 27 March 2023, the President of the Parliament sent the XXV of 2022 on Hungary's central budget for 2023. a single proposal aimed at amending the law, including the introduction of changes adopted by Parliament, requesting the opinion of the Fiscal Council on its compliance with the sovereign debt rule and the granting of its prior consent under the Fundamental Law to the final vote on the bill. The Council examined the document, hereinafter referred to as "3/2023' at its meeting on 30 March 2023. [[CHAPTER III 30.]] I would like to make a point. It concluded that the amendments proposed for adoption in the single proposal do not alter the planned cash flow deficit as they increase the total revenue and expenditure in the same amount and consequently the planned amount of public debt remains unchanged. [[11.10]] The Council took note of the planned rate of government debt ratio planned for 31 December 2023 in a single proposal to amend the law on Hungary's central budget for 2023. In the opinion of the Council, the planned reduction in the sovereign debt ratio is in line with the macroeconomic path used as a condition for the bill and the budgetary processes designated. The sovereign debt indicator was established in accordance with the provisions of the Stability Act, in line with the macroeconomic and general government processes on which the bill was drawn up. Since the sovereign debt ratio, calculated by the end of 2023, is lower than that expected by the end of 2022, the requirement of the Fundamental Law is therefore also met. On this basis, the Council gave its prior consent to the final vote on the single proposal. Dear Parliament, It is well known to you that the framework of the sovereign debt rule is defined by the Fundamental Law as follows: as long as the public debt exceeds half of the total domestic product, Parliament may only adopt a central budget law containing a reduction in the proportion of the public debt to the total domestic product. The bill also complies with this rule in the light of existing risks. The Stability Act also imposes a requirement for debt developments, according to which the debt-to-GDP ratio should be reduced by at least 0,1 percentage points. According to the single bill, this indicator could decrease by much more than 3.8 percentage points in 2023. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, In the process of the Council, he followed the parliamentary discussion of the draft budget law. He found that, compared to the bill submitted, certain expenditure and revenue appropriations increased by HUF 17.6 billion on the basis of the amendments adopted by Parliament. Thus, the Eximbank Zrt., which operates the program, to expand the Reindustrialisation Credit Programme of Baross Gábor. the possibility of raising funds, which will be covered by the support of the competition sector under the Retirement Fund through a transfer of expenditure appropriations. Within the chapter of the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office, special revenue and expenditure appropriations have been established for the technical management of the emergency rules relating to the operation of toll systems. The amount allocated to the National Judicial Council for personal and material expenses is increased by HUF 300 million, the source of which is Eximbank Zrt. they provide an equivalent reduction in the expected payment obligation resulting from the guarantee transactions entered into by the undertaking. Therefore, the balance has not changed. At the same time, the Council considered it important to point out that the amended budget is also at risk. It therefore underlined the importance of the implementation of Article 8 of the bill. The measures provided for in paragraph 2 of paragraph 2 of this Article, which are to be prepared by the directors of the government's budgetary bodies, shall include realistic, sustainable and, at the same time, savings measures which do not jeopardise the performance of public tasks. Otherwise, the smooth delivery of public services would require significant extra expenditure, which would jeopardise the achievement of the public debt target. Despite the partial compensation for the increase in energy prices, the real value of public service appropriations has decreased significantly in several areas, thus addressing the resulting tensions requires additional special attention in the implementation of the budget. The Council also called for a 3 per cent deficit to be reached as soon as possible, if economic conditions permit. It still believes that the reduction of the deficit in other areas of the economy will help to restore balance, for example, to improve the ability to finance externally. The Council therefore welcomed the provision contained in the bill that, if the real value of GDP in 2023 shows an increase of more than 1.5 per cent, the additional revenue reduced by the planned amount of pension premium should be used to mitigate the deficit. Dear Parliament, Finally, it should be noted that the Budgetary Council sees a risk in the delay in the budgetary adjustment process. This undermines the predictability of funding and hinders sound, forward-looking management of budgetary bodies. This is why the Council hopes that, by calming down internal and external circumstances, the budget will regain the role of the compass, to which the budgetary sector and the economic actors can adapt their decisions. In addition, and in view of all of this, the Fiscal Council has given its contribution to the final vote on the proposal for a single fiscal law. Thank you very much for your attention and allow me to wish you a pleasant holiday in view of the coming Easter. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-03-31-2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/2667/85. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 131 votes in favour, 54 votes against and no abstentions. We now have the H/3304 on the declaration of the year 2023 as the Memorial Year of Imre Madách. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/3004. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the proposal for a resolution by 184 votes to none, with one vote in favour. Next up is the H/3086 on the one-year anniversary of the Russian-Ukrainian war. Final vote of the pro-peace resolution proposal. However, in the light of a request for action, we must decide to maintain proposals for amendments. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of Amendment No 2, Jobbik Group No 10, 11 and 12, and Dialogue Group No 3. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members. This reservation precludes the decision to maintain amendments 10, 12 and 3. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 50 votes to 50, 135 votes to one. [[11.20]] Amendment No 10 tabled by Mr László György Lukács and Mr Brenner Koloman. To maintain this, the decision to maintain Amendment 3 is excluded. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 41 votes in favour, 135 votes against and 1 abstention. Amendment 3 is proposed by Timea Szabó and his fellow Members. To maintain this, the decision to maintain Amendment 12 is excluded. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 42 votes in favour, 134 votes against [footnoteRef:1], with one abstention. [ 1: Attila Tilki [[Fidesz]] He wanted to vote no. ] Amendment 12 is proposed by Mr László György Lukács and Mr Brenner Koloman. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 41 votes in favour, 135 votes against and 1 abstention. Amendment 11 is proposed by Mr László György Lukács and Mr Brenner Koloman. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 43 votes in favour, 132 votes against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament did not maintain a proposal for an amendment, nor did an amendment summing up the proposal, we decided on the text of the proposal for a decision in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/3086. Pro-peace motion for a resolution. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 130 votes in favour, 24 votes against [footnoteRef:2], without abstention. [[Several congressmen with their cell phones are recording. Intercoms.]] [ 2: Dr. János Latorcai misvoted and wished to vote in favour. ] It follows the T/309 on the amendment of the laws concerning the management of certain assets. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The summation of the Legislative Committee's proposal for amendment T/3009/6 and its summary report T/3009/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Noise. Towards a series of dialogues:]] I'll ask the ladies what the problem is. [[Szabó Timea: What do you think?]] Then I'd like you all to listen to me. [[Szabó Timea: Definitely!]] We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 1, 2, 4, 6 and 7, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the parts requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3009/6. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 137 votes in favour, 32 votes against and 18 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3009/6. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment by 136 votes in favour, 31 votes against and 19 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3009/9. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 137 votes in favour, 32 votes against and 18 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3009/9. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 136 votes in favour, 32 votes against and 18 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! In line with our agreed agenda, decisions are now being taken to accept the responses to the interpellations on Monday's meeting. Representative László Varju, representative of DK, I/3253. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 129 votes in favour, 56 votes against and one abstention. [[It's constant noise. It's a short break.]] Thank you very much. Ms Zita Gurmai, representative of the MSZP, Ms I/2955. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 130 votes in favour, 54 against, with two abstentions. Congressman Róbert Dudás, representative of Jobbik, I/3261. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 129 votes in favour, 56 votes against and one abstention. Congressman Dávid Dócs, representative of our country, I/3260. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 130 votes in favour, 28 votes against and 12 abstentions. Ms Rebecca Szabó, representative of the Dialogue, I/3255. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 130 votes in favour, 56 votes against and one abstention. Lóránt Keresztes, representative of LMP, I/3259. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 130 votes in favour, 55 votes against and one abstention. Congresswoman Andrea Hegedüs, representative of DK, I/3238. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 130 votes in favour, 56 votes against and one abstention. Congressman Péter Balassa, representative of Jobbik, I/3258. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 130 votes in favour, 55 votes against and one abstention. [[11.30]] Representative István Szabadi, representative of Mi Hazan, representative of I/3257. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 130 votes in favour, 37 votes against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows in line with the 11/2022 on the establishment of committees, the election of members and officials of the Parliament. [[V. 2.]] A decision to amend a decision. S/3423 put forward by the President All of you could get to know the proposal on the website. I would like to ask Mr András Aradszki to present the content of the personal proposal put forward by the President. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2023-03-31-3	11/2022 on the establishment of committees, election of members and officials of the Parliament Point 2 of the OGY resolution is amended as follows: Parliament elects Péter Ágh, Péter Fidesz, to be a member of the Committee. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption.
u2023-03-31-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. The number of Parliamentary resolutions is correctly 11/2022. OGY Decision dated 2 October V. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept S/3423. Proposal 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the proposal by 186 votes in favour, no votes against, with 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! We've reached the end of the decisions. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. (Sunning: 11.32 11.34 President: Dr. János Latorcai Notes: Dr. András Aradski and Dr. Ágnes Vadai)
u2023-03-31-5	Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! With all due respect to those who remain in the Chamber, please take your seats, and who are leaving the Chamber to attend to their duties, as soon as possible and as quietly as possible, so that the speeches after the agenda can be made in order. [[It's a short break. Noise. Move.]] Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, representative of Mi Hazank, vice-president of the National Assembly, applied for a speech after the agenda. Please be quiet, my fellow Members, and as I have asked, who must leave, please leave, so that Mrs Vice-President can say her speech without delay. Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, you have the floor.
u2023-03-31-6	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Balatonaliga's soap opera continues, which could be fun for us if it weren't for the shores of the Hungarian sea, but we could watch this corruption and incompetence in some remote South American banana republic, which surrounds the government in this respect. However, it is not funny that, because of private interests of private investors, people lose hundreds of metres of the shore of Lake Balaton, and they are also clearly trying to circumvent the local construction regulations. In a previous speech, I touched on the Lake Balaton promenade, which is 540 metres long, and the investor wanted to sell it on the basis of an exploding government decree. Well, I'm sorry to tell you that this happened. This area was parceled and sold to private investors in total worth billions of HUF, so this part of Lake Balaton was lost to the community forever. But it is still not the end of the settlement's Calvary, because at the end of last year, on 21 December, the government office gave a building permit for the construction of five flat roofed six-storey condominiums surrounded by a fence. At Christmas, then, civilians who have been living in it for decades have not had a quiet, peaceful holiday, because they have to keep an eye on what kind of scheme the investor or the government or the two together are planning in this area of Lake Balaton. The government office has given permission to do so by clearly laying down in the local construction regulations that they can permit building heights of 4.5, 7.5 and up to 10 metres in this area. However, in the construction plan, the height of 20 metres was also exceeded by all condominiums. So I'm sorry, but my three-and-a-half-year-old kid knows that 20 is more than 10, and somehow there wasn't anyone at the government office who noticed that, and they gave me permission. Clearly, it is serious inadequacy or corruption, for the blind can see what is happening. At the same time, civilians challenged the building permit in the court, and, as expected, of course, the Pécs General Court withdrew the building permit this month in its first instance judgment. However, the decision is not final, so local residents cannot remain calm. The whole case will come to a standstill if this exploding government decree is withdrawn once and for all by the government, it will be repealed, since it has been unlawfully applied in the area on two occasions. We can recall that in 2021 the Government Office granted the same building permit on the basis of the government decree, but after the loud national outrage, it was withdrawn only after 17 days by the Prime Minister's Office, and according to their press office, because the plan originally concerned hotel development with job creation, but the builder planned to build residential housing in this area. So now the same thing happened again in 2023. [[11.40]] If the civilians hadn't been on guard at Christmas, they would have missed the deadline to attack this building permit in court. So it's outrageous the sleazy thing that the government office has done in this case as well. The solution is therefore to repeal the Government Decree once and for all. Neither the civilians nor the Hungarian Movement are against a meaningful investment involving environmental and tourism aspects in this area, because it is really necessary for the public to make the best use of this area and indeed for development, but this must be done without going against the will of the local population and following the local regulations and the Balaton law, instead of the government's attempt to use hundreds of new tricks with the investor in hand. Balaton must be the Hungarian people, and environmental aspects cannot be ignored during any investment on the shore of Lake Balaton, in this area of Aliga. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-03-31-7	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Mr President Novák has applied for a post- Agenda speech from the Group of our country. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-03-31-8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, It is illegal and morally unacceptable for Gyula Horn to bear the name of public land, so on the Memorial Day of the victims of communism we suggested naming the capital promenade from a martyr's freedom fighter. Gyula Horn has actively served the stranglers of the 1956 revolution as pussies. According to the report of Deport.56, five unarmed civilians were executed on 6 December 1956 near the Western Railway Station during a Kartalmist provocation; Gyula Horn was among the Kartalmists. In the crimes of communism, Gyula Horn's responsibility can be identified primarily as a laborer and a high-ranking party functionary, but what is less common, however, historian Krisztián Ungváry revealed that, like Péter Medgyessy in D-209, Gyula Horn was an agent III/II agent, under the cover name of Warrior, although he did not remember this in his memoirs, of course. Although, following my submission, the Metropolitan Government Office's first reply to me was concluded that no judicial supervision measure could be taken, my rejoined response and the social pressure promoted by the cover of street signs led to Dr. Sára Botond's finally giving me the truth, he issued a call for legal oversight in which, within 30 days, he asked the Metropolitan Assembly to remedy, eliminate, i.e. change the name of the public area. That is why we need our awareness-raising and pressure-training actions, for example, in the still unorganized case of the Communist Memorial of Liberty Square. Although the police once again confirmed that we, with Thin Csongor, President of Mi Hazank in Budapest, restored the legal order in February under the law imposing a ban on communist street names by covering the street signs of Horn Gyula sétány, which I officially initiated in vain at the competent Budapest Government Office, because in its reply, although it found the illegal situation, at the same time it referred to the lack of legal possibilities: no legal supervision measure can be taken. However, the law on the local governments of Hungary 11. According to Article 20 of the Act, public territory shall not bear the name of a person who is a member of the Committee of the Regions. He was involved in the foundation, construction or maintenance of authoritarian political systems of the century. If there is a doubt in a public domain name that the name is prohibited by law, then the municipality obtains the position of the MTA, which is born solely on a municipal request, but is not initiated by any representative of the Metropolitan Assembly. On the other hand, Mi Hazank pointed out that the law on the court register of civil society organisations contains a similar prohibition, and the resolution already issued on the inclusion of the name of Gyula Horn in the name of civil society organization MTA, on the basis of which the use of the name was prohibited, because Gyula Horn's well-known life course leaves no doubt that he was involved or even played a leading role in XX. This is what the Hungarian Academy of Sciences said in the construction and maintenance of the authoritarian regime of the century. As a result, the Metropolitan Assembly should now act within 30 days, but the name of the Horn Gyula promenade would also be retained by the Metropolitan Assembly in violation of the law, so the case could go to court. Meanwhile, the foundation wishing to bear the name of Gyula Horn came forward that their name was a trick, they were actually right-wing, but this was how the MTA was able to take a resolution, since unfortunately no representative of the Budapest General Assembly initiated it before the vote, although several Fidesz politicians were sitting there. Unfortunately, the MTA takes a position only on a municipal request, in principle not even on the initiative of the Government Office. That is why I was preparing for a similar trick, and we in Hungary would have applied for the resolution of the MTA, but I do not have to, because my legal argument was to convince the government office of the intervention, although it was the first time that it concluded that there could be no judicial supervision measure. At that time, the Archbishop was already aware of the position of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences regarding the foundation that was trying to name him from Gyula Horn. But in the end, it was only my letter of reply, or social pressure. Thank you, everyone, for speaking in the voice of the protest. However, we still have a lot of work to do, Honourable Parliament, because the last 30 years, the common shame of the MSZP and Fidesz governments, is that the history of state security has not happened, including the discovery of agent lists, the accountability and banning of communist leaders from public life, and the withdrawal of communist luxury pensions. These are the most important anti-communist programs of the Hungarian Movement. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-03-31-9	Thank you very much, Congressman. After the agenda, Mr Róbert Dudás from the Jobbik Group applied for a speech. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-03-31-10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, In the last year, the number of road accidents involving personal injury increased by more than 3 percent, to exactly 14 679. These are, among other things, areas where we can say that if there were only one indicator, it would be exactly one more than what would be acceptable. We can also say that we must do everything we can to reduce this number. Of course, it cannot be silenced that there are a very high number of personal failures that cause these accidents, and this must also be addressed, but I would also like to highlight some external factors, which should be given special attention to by the Parliament and, in particular, by the Hungarian Government. One of these is the state of the roads themselves, especially the roads connecting small settlements and small settlements. The country's road network is in a catastrophic state. In recent weeks, in months, I have had several written questions, I have had several oral speeches on these road states, and I have always received evasive answers. The answer to my last question about three roads in Heves County was that, although the Hungarian government is aware that these roads need not only to be renovated, but also to replace the entire hull, as they are dangerous and life-threatening, there is no source for this. For a number of reasons, this answer cannot be accepted, for one reason, because it would be a source. If we look at only one area, it means that in the last year, HUF 1500 billion more tax revenue has been generated than the planned HUF 1500 billion would be possible to remedy a lot of areas, such as improving and renewing the state of roads, because I think that, in particular in the countryside, proper transport can bring all other developments and developments. That's one of the things that doesn't make it acceptable is that there's no budget. And the other is when we see what kind of investment there is, by the way. Without the need for completeness: in the last few weeks, it has been very popular that in an area without trees, a canopy canopy has been built. I think an inland trip could have been fixed. It is a good road of highway quality where there is, by the way, a pro-government interest, but there is more than 100 million forints in an area where the pro-government mayor also has an interest, and they spend 140 million forints on renovating the dirt road; this is how much they can spend to tidy up that dirt road, so that, by the way, only people on the inside will obviously be able to use it. And what I have mentioned is that I have also spoken to you in writing in connection with the renovation of several sections of the road between rural areas, such as Recsk-Mátraballa. The Ministry's reply shows precisely that it has 1711 cars on it, on that road, which is also recognised by the Ministry as being refurbished daily. [[11.50]] Probably not sitting alone, not one person sitting in every car, so it can be said that up to 4-5 thousand people are using these roads. There's no source, and they don't know when it's gonna be. It's already dangerous, you shouldn't wait for a life-threatening situation to happen, and don't give it to me, God, it's a tragedy. I have just mentioned a few settlements in Heves County and the state of the roads between them, but I would like to bring them here and mention that, although I have been exemplary with them, unfortunately, there are many such roads in the country, and I am doing the example with them for all the rural roads. As a last thought, we all remember him and all of us were saddened by the tragedy on the M1 about a month ago. I think this also highlights the shortcomings in the state of roads, in the management of roads and in the environment of roads for a long time. By the way, the government has already communicated about this, but unfortunately it has not been realized that forest lanes and protection lanes have to be built, and not just on the M1 and not just on the M3. Renewal of each motorway, motorway, main road and all areas at risk should be reviewed in order to address the risk of accidents. It is a question of who will do so, the government or the company or person included in the concession. I will always, in addition to my oral speech, turn to the Government in writing on this subject. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2023-03-31-11	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát also came forward to speak after the agenda from the Jobbik Group. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-03-31-12	Mr President, Dear House, Half a million against at least half a million. In the last few weeks, it has been said several times that they believe that 500,000 workers are missing from the Hungarian economy, that there are still 500,000 workers at home. At the same time, on the other hand, we see that at least 500,000 of our countrymen migrated, typically out of compulsion and typically in the western direction, many of them in order to finance their loans from their salary there, or to advance on the front of housing. The topic of housing is the most irritating, since according to recent research, 110 years of income is required for the capital's XII. In its district, you can buy a newly built, average property suitable for one or even two children, and you can do so by setting aside your entire earnings in this time band. What we see is that I, II, V and XII. in the district, the price of the square meter is already over HUF 2 million for a newly built property, and the number of metropolitan districts where we meet prices below HUF 1 million in a similar case. Right now, it's the 15th, the 17th, the 18th. and Article 21 (2) (a) It's a district. Obviously, the prices of these outer districts will already be competing slowly with the property prices of rural cities, so we cannot say that the problem is only capital. And if we look at the data of the KSH 2022, we find that, with the median net earnings, just counting 280,000 forints a month, it really takes decades, a period close to a century, for someone to get an independent home in addition to the current real estate prices, and to be able to thrive in their homeland. So from our example, let's say we don't target the inner districts, but the XXI., a 50 square meter property, we can find something here at a price of 620,000 forints. We see that the entire income should be set aside for nine years and three months in order for someone to buy such a property. The worst effect of this is that a significant proportion of people under 35 will no longer think that they can ever have a separate property, they won't even start on this road, and very many people will get the idea of emigration along with low salaries and a constant mood for depression. What we see is that if we look at EU prices, we can immediately find out who is responsible for all of this, because between 2010 and 2022 we have compared data with statistics, where it turns out that property prices have increased by 49 percent on average within the European Union, by 174 percent in Hungary. So you can't just blame this thing on the fact that global economic crises are coming or going anyway, that's right, they come and go, but compared to 49 percent in Hungary, 174 percent are visible. We see that this is the second largest increase in the EU, the only Eastern state that can prevent us in this and in terms of rents, because while rents have increased by an average of 18 percent within the EU, 60 percent in Hungary is shown in the same category, this is the fourth largest increase in Europe. If we are faced with all of this, it will be an autopsy of a lifetime, if we look at the life situation of an average young person, we have already found the answer to why it is necessary, the. We are waiting for a rental program, the. We are waiting for a home creation program, because there is an amazing supply shortage in this market. There are very few apartments available for rent, and the number of newly built properties is not great. Overall, there would be plenty of room for more tax revenue than in the previous period to start a public-based housing program, which would make sense and really be of considerable benefit to the market if there were to be a minimum of 5-10 thousand apartments per year, and we could maintain this for many years. It would be very important to move into these for half of the market rents at most, and here we should also consider that, in the case of women working in sectors of national strategic importance, teachers working with our children, it would also be possible to work out a service housing programme within the framework of the rental scheme, or even to do so according to an Austrian, German social point system, and to reward those from whom we want them to stay home and thrive in their homeland. Overall, without a housing programme, the possibility of living in the homeland is either impossible or very, very limited, so we demand that the government take immediate action on this issue. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2023-03-31-13	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Ander Balázs also applied for the post-meeting speech from the Jobbik Group. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-03-31-14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, He's going to steamy Kansas. Calm down. I'm not going to terrify anyone by singing, but we could say, or we should say, go to the steamy canyon, and the railway wagons roll out of that car factory in Nagykanizsa, a railway wagon factory that was announced and promised to the people living there on the pro-government side during the election campaign. It would be fair to ask why I, as a representative of South Somogy, am dealing with this issue. Well, just because, let's say, the district of Csurgo, the town of Csurgó, is 29 kilometers away from Nagykanizsa, is almost 80 kilometers away from Somogy County, Kaposvár, so for the people here a natural gravity point Nagykanizsa. What hurts the Nagykanizsai is the same thing that hurts the people of South Somogy. If you look at these walks, like the district of Nagykanizsai or the district of Csurgo, what a sinking Atlantis they are, what a terrible demographic demise slope they have been pushed to over the last decades, then the numbers speak for themselves. After all, while nearly 20,000 people lived in the area of Csurgo district in 1990, this has decreased by 27 percent since then, and the city's population has also fallen from 6,200 to 4,500 people; a 27 percent decrease. 17 percent of the population has been lost since 1990 in the district of Nagykanizsa and Nagykanizsa. So if there is a need for development somewhere, in order to increase the population retention force, this is one of Hungary's regions. Our politicians from Nagykanizsa, the politicians of the local Jobbik-Conservatives, asked me to look around the Chamber, here he is in his work, Nagykanizsa's pro-government representative, Péter Cseresnyés; unfortunately I do not see him. We hope, by the way, that somewhere right now, he is lobbying successfully, and that this lobbying will be more successful than his efforts on the M9 road, the trail of which looks like he will avoid both Nagykanizsa and the southern parts of Somogy County. In this way, the role of the transport, logistics and industry in the black hole will be strengthened on the map of our country, which, unfortunately, is occupied by these complexly disadvantaged areas. [[12.00]] Well, why would these improvements be necessary? I would quote KSH data: in Zala county, the value of industrial production per capita is HUF 3 million 300 thousand per year, this is the double of this in the neighbouring Vas county, 6 million 600 thousand and almost HUF 12 million in Győr-Moson-Sopron county; in Zala county, the net salary per capita is HUF 277,000 per month, whereas in Győr-Moson-Sopron county, the difference is not too high, but the difference is noticeable: HUF 358 thousand there. So, we're gonna need every single one of these improvements. Unfortunately, on the pro-government side, during the election campaign, it was said that the opposition was only alarming when we drew attention to the fact that Tungsram of Nagykanizsa was also in a difficult situation. So, the opposition intimidated me, according to the pro-government narrative, but after the election, a thousand people were dismissed from the company on the spot, maybe a hundred people managed to save their jobs. But they felt that there was something wrong here, and that there should be some way to reassure the citizens of Nagykanizsa and the people of South Somogy, so they promised that Europe's most advanced railway car manufacturer would set up a plant in Nagykanizsa, the failing DKG in its 36-acre brownfield area. So it wouldn't have been a problem either, it wouldn't have been necessary to remove 40 crowned fields from farming, but it would have been possible to build this factory. Unfortunately, there hasn't been a single cut since then, even though 1500 jobs were promised, and they said that by now these previously mentioned railway wagons, railway wagons, should have been rolling out of this plant. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I'm asking when they're gonna start building the factory you promised. When can the citizens of South Zalan and South Somogy start working there? When does production start? Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2023-03-31-15	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Fidesz Group, Mr Péter Ovádi has applied for a speech after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-03-31-16	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot answer this question to my fellow Member Ander, but to the right-wing Member who spoke before him, who is no longer in the Chamber, I can answer that what he said is precisely the solution of the Hungarian village programme, because in my constituency several tens of kilometers have been renewed, which actually serves to connect and better access to small settlements. That is why I asked for today's speech to report on the development of the 1st constituency of Veszprém county, as if we only looked at the Hungarian village programme, then we can report that the 24 settlements concerned have 228 winning applications from my constituency, and the 1st constituency of Veszprém county has applied for billions of HUF. The Hungarian village programme is probably the most popular among local authorities, as it is a 100 percent grant from state resources, and the municipalities do not have to contribute to it. Let me just mention a few. Renovation of school buildings, municipal sidewalk construction, road construction, as I said, purchase of municipal assets, development of municipal property, establishment of municipal community spaces, development of kindergarten playgrounds and public area playgrounds, renovation and development of service apartments and medical service apartments. This is all a development opportunity that small settlements have been waiting for for for a very long time, and I think the Hungarian village programme is a successful program, which is why there are so many applications for this. I think it is important, of course, to mention Veszprém and its region in the context of development, if we are talking about our region, because we have a unique opportunity: in 2023 we can be the cultural capital of Europe, which is a great honour not only for Veszprém but also for the whole region. The Hungarian State is committed to making this programme successful, so we have been able to implement several improvements in Veszprém that we have been waiting for for for a long time. For example, the renovation of the Ruttner house, where an old building was renewed in Veszprém, which we had been expecting for a long time. This will become a hostel-type accommodation, and I think we have been able to make this development to the greatest satisfaction of the tourists arriving. But the renovation of ActiCity is on its way, and I think this project has long been awaited by the Veszprémians, because the old Heim Pál Children's Hospital is being renewed, and this building can become a beautiful building next month. I think it is also a very important development that the area of the old Balaton Furniture Factory will now be a cultural park, and we will be able to receive a lot of visitors there, but if we look at the largest housing site on Jutasi Road, then we will have a running circle with ECF support. Here I have really only listed a few opportunities and improvements, but the entire castle quarter is renewed with government support, worth more than HUF 50 billion. Of course, if we are talking about programmes, we also need to talk about the programme of the modern cities, in which the town of Veszprém has the same rights. The Antal Csermák Music School, Veszprém and its area, as well as the first phase of the renovation of the Petőfi Theatre in Veszprém, could be renewed, but an industrial park has also been established, which is unique in the country as well, and raises vocational training to a new level. But it's enough that anyone who goes to Veszprém a lot sees that the reconstruction of the south bypass is already complete. So I think that we are on a very good path, and we must continue on this path, and then Veszprém and its region will develop. Thank you so much for listening.
u2023-03-31-17	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! From the Jobbik Group, Mr János Bencze has also applied for a speech after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[12.10]]
u2023-03-31-18	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for the floor. The reason why I would like to speak up and promise to follow up on it is once a burning problem, and the other point is that woods are simple. This is literally about the firewood program that you have generously promised to the population and, let's just say it with honor, they've been tricked to a large extent. Ten cubic meters of domestic firewood was promised to all households, without any time limit, for winter fuelers, in the winter of 2022-2023. Now, let's see what happened in real life. What happened in reality was that in forestry, when you logged in to firewood, you could only require five cubic meters. I know it was enough for someone, but it was only five cubic meters against your promise. We indicated on a professional basis that forestry, forest managers, lumberjack brigades told us that there would be no man to grow, it would be impossible to complete the 10 cubic meters. Instead of being modified, they would have admitted their mistake, continued to push the propaganda that they would, in this winter, be heated with this firewood. I'm telling you, it's not what they used to heat me. If your representatives also went to small villages or their own town or to any of their own settlements, then they noticed that there was no firewood in the courtyards, which comes in drag, which is wet, freshly cut, so the experts say is still a bird whistling, so the thrush was still on its branch, and a lot of people got their winter firewood in March. They waited for the time machine to get it to fly the firewood back dry by early December and heat it, but it didn't come to it, so people stayed in a hoop. What have the poor rural people, who need this firewood the most, people who live in poverty, work with honor, raise children, and want to pay for this firewood because they scraped the money together? Many of these people came to me to raise the money for five cubic meters so they could heat. They couldn't heat, they solved it from private forests much more expensively, and those who were in even more trouble heated everything. Those who spent winter in the Hungarian countryside after sunset or near sunset, when even the less careful ones lit up, felt that everything that was in their hands had been fired, starting from the tyre to the butterfly bottle, and everything was burning according to the smell. I can't imagine you didn't notice. At the same time, did they drag themselves into their luxury properties so they wouldn't smell the stench? We felt it. Like I said, I took the time to look into what could be proposed on the forestry side. Here comes the next weird thing. There was no railing for 10 cubic meters. I've got a piece of paper in my hand. [[He's showing me a document.]] On which the forestry informs us that if someone wants to claim the second 5 cubic meters, they have to check in again or they'll lose their claim. Not only did he not get the first 5 cubic meters in time, he couldn't heat with it, but so if he doesn't go into the forest or send it in on the Internet, he'll fall. What's this if it's not a scam? You have deceived people and have not corrected them to this day. Good, you might say the firewood has arrived. But it's not because of you. I would especially like to thank forestry, forest managers, lumberjack brigades and employees for having carried out this firewood program with such success that they were able to manage to reach at least 5 cubic meters by March. 'Cause I've heard a number of times that people are outraged by government propaganda about what they're throwing at the heads of forest workers who hired this firewood order. It's not their fault. It's Fidesz government propaganda that makes people feel cheated and cheated. What's more, the slush joke we indicated to you in the beginning is that when you came out with the regulations restricting the delivery of firewood, people who wanted to buy firewood in the summer because they had the money, they couldn't buy firewood in the woodsheds, the firewoods, because there was a shortage of goods. Anything you touch with a price cap, a regulation, anything, you'll have a shortage of goods. Many of them cried back on the Kádár system, so far we have received some in the form of a shortage of goods. I refer to these people: it is not that they did not get firewood in the summer, but in winter they could buy only relatively fresh, wet firewood in limited quantities. In fact, the black soup is coming now, because these forests need to be replanted, and the forest law obliges the forest farmer to do so. Moreover, as people living in agriculture, we can see ahead, we know that the seasons are coming and what happens in a year. Get ready for the next winter. For the next winter, too, there must be some sort of arrangement for people to get their hands on fire. So, honourable members of the government, you have the ball. Dear government, go ahead and solve it, because you have failed this time. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2023-03-31-19	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches after the agenda. I thank my fellow Members, the staff of the Parliament's Office, the chiefs of the minutes, the technical staff for their persistent work. The Parliament will resume its meeting next week, Monday, at 11 a.m. Meeting day's closed. See you Monday.
