u2023-05-04-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning, fellow Members. Please take your seats. I warmly welcome all of you and welcome all of you who are monitoring our meeting today. Today's sitting of the Parliament is now open. This is the 18th day of the spring session. I would like to inform you that László Földi and Bernadett Bakos will be taking part in this meeting. Dear Parliament, XLII 2015 on the status of professional law enforcement staff. Law 137. According to Article 4 of the Act, the day of St. Florian's martyrdom, our firefighters' and our disaster management organisation is the day. The fire department and the disaster management organization have a long tradition, and the people working there work with a high level of professional knowledge and human maintenance, with their many sacrifices and their service, in order to prevent the dangers that arise in the most unexpected moments of our time and our environment. The struggle of the Hunor rescue team, traveling to the site of the earthquake in Turkey, has been an outstanding example of our firefighters' trying career. The team set off for the first time to the site of the earthquake in February; the day after the quake, people were rescued in the field. Despite the constant dangers of aftershocks, physical and mental stress, 17 lives were saved, including three children. The Hungarian team worked continuously 24 hours a day, searching for the survivors without stopping. A normal person runs away from where we go in or where we show up to help... Some of us fought for 16 hours. But for us, this mission was summarized in a succinct way, with a normal nature, the firemen of the rescue team returning home are not the essence of their everyday vocation. It is a relief for us that the members of the disaster management organisation will serve our safety here every day with the same unbroken stand and dedication. As citizens of our country, so do we, Members of Parliament, with special respect to the present-day descendants of St. Florian, and with respect to their exceptional human and professional performance. On this day of St. Florian's celebration, the Hungarian Parliament expresses its respect and thanks to all Hungarian firefighters, members of all domestic disaster protection and rescue units. God save you and God bless you all. Dear House, I would like to inform you that Katalin Novak... Sorry, there's a big difference. I would like to inform you that President Novak, representative of the Hungarian Parliament, has received a motion to suspend his immunity on 21 April 2023 5.B.2032/2022. on a case in which the Court of Justice of the Central District of Buda has been prosecuted for the offence of destruction. The Speaker of Parliament gave this to the immunity committee for examination. Dear House, Fellow Members! We now have a general debate on the bill amending certain laws relating to the simplification of public utility services until closure. The government referral is T/3780. On the House's IT network, it is available to all my fellow Members. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Tuzson, Secretary of State of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2023-05-04-1	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The reduction of the rent is a very important achievement, because remember, the biggest burden for families has always been the overhead. And this means not only the amount of the rent, but also the constant change in these amounts before 2010, generally upwards, and the level that was already unbearable to families. This is why it was of great importance that, as a result of the policy of reducing prices, prices were reduced and fixed, which allowed families to count and count on a permanent, reduced cost to date. It is of the utmost importance that we be able to maintain this policy and support for families in the long term, also through the brass. The past period has shown that this is possible, and as difficult as the situation is, it is difficult because of a coronal virus epidemic or, for example, because of the war in our neighbourhood, or due to the failed sanctions in Brussels related to this, despite the loss of overhead throughout Europe, this can be kept under control in Hungary and must be kept under control. This should also be pursued in the next period, as if you look at the number of users, there are 26 million places of use in Hungary. This means that every Hungarian citizen, almost every Hungarian citizen, is also affected by the issue of rent, the price of rent. But in addition to talking about the price of overhead, we also need to talk about the administration accompanying the overhead, utilities and the use of utility services. It is extremely important and old for the government to be able to reduce and continuously reduce the bureaucracy associated with this. Therefore, I, as the government commissioner responsible for deregulation, consider this to be a particularly important task. Several measures have already been taken in Hungary in this regard. For example, e-reporting services can be used to report user changes online or to report changes in user data online. The current bill, which is on the table, helps to change and reduce the administrative burden associated with the overhead on several points. These are, for example, changes to the business rules, since from now on, not only the changes contained in the business regulations must be published, but also be communicated to users by electronic means or mobile applications. This means not only sending the text of the legislation or the business regulation, but also making a summary of this and communicating it to people, customers, in an understandable way. This is also partly linked to the fact that the concept of user complaints is now clarified by this law, thus helping customers to be more easily dealt with by service providers and thus to obtain a more rapid response to complaints and to find solutions to the problems raised. It is electronic administration that is accompanying us today in almost all areas. We should also not be left behind in this area, so that the scope of those responsible for electronic administration should be extended. So far, there has been such an obligation for operators issuing 150,000 invoices, and from now on there will be such an obligation for operators issuing 50 thousand invoices. This will help users to get a faster electronic administration instead of standing in line, which will save time and do not need to be separated from their work or from their families. [[9.10]] A small, yet important change is the elimination of mandatory on-the-spot checks. This is about the fact that if someone moved somewhere, so a new customer came to the service provider at an earlier place of use, in which case a mandatory check was required so far, so the service provider had to come out, start a mandatory verification process, stay at home, wait for the service provider's representative. This is no longer an obligation, but, of course, the customer's right has been maintained to ask for this verification if he otherwise sees it. In any event, the service provider may continue to do so on its own. An important change is still the issue of overpayment accounting. So far, there has been a limited possibility of overpayments of 3-5 thousand forints to be accounted for with the following account, from now on this option will be fully maintained unless, of course, the user gives a different order. But if you do not give the opposite provision, this settlement will be possible in the next period. Once again, an important change in the change in data changes: in the event that a service provider has multiple services, so if, say, the electricity is purchased from or purchased from there, in the event of notification, if there is a change in data, the service provider will have the opportunity, after notification, to combine these data, i.e. transfer a changed data not only for one service but also for the other service. This will also make it easier for people to do their work, for people to report, and for service providers to have a kind of administrative reduction, so that the costs there can also be lower. A very important change will also occur for consumers to be protected. So far, the rule was that until 31 March, there was an obligation to notify that there was still this status to be protected, that the consumer had always had to make a statement about it, and that was actually quite a few unnecessary administrations, since this status of protection usually goes on year after year. From now on, this obligation will already be the responsibility of the authority entitled to establish the status to be protected, i.e. to inform the public utility provider accordingly. These are the main provisions that are now contained in this bill. It is important that we are able to help people with their work and make the state a state, in the words of Zoltán Magyary, that the state should always be close to the citizens and that the public administration should become more and more human-faced. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-04-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Attila Barcza. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-05-04-3	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill on the table of this House is in line with the government's objectives to ensure that citizens are protected from electricity and reduce their costs despite the energy crisis, thereby promoting the protection of Hungarian families and the functioning of domestic businesses. To this end, it is of the utmost importance that domestic utility services can be used easily and quickly by consumers, as well as to ensure that they have the possibility of providing services that are available both personally and online. It is important to mention with regard to energy issues that, unfortunately, new sanctions have been announced in Brussels over the past period, and I think it has become clear to everyone in this House and in the country that energy prices will certainly not return to pre-war levels. These sanctions and high energy prices have led to inflation and, as a result, Hungary spent HUF 4000 billion more on energy in 2022 than in 2021, a huge amount. The civilian government has already taken a number of measures for families and businesses, including the protection of jobs. As an example, perhaps the biggest example of this is that in 2023 there will be a reduction in the average consumption, so a family saves 181,000 forints per month, which is unique in Europe. It is important to mention here that the Hungarian government spends the most on public support in the European Union through reduced prices, which, I think, takes a heavy burden off the shoulders of Hungarian families. [[Bernadett Bakos takes the notary seat.]] We can tell you how the overhead works. In the universal service of natural gas, around 80 percent of consumption places and almost 75 percent of power supply remained fully used below the band limit. Eurostat's recent disclosure confirms that in the second half of 2022, Hungarian households were the cheapest at the two most important energy carriers in the European Union, and I would like to point out once again that I came to this conclusion from Eurostat data. According to the latest international price comparison of the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, Hungary had the least electricity and natural gas in March 2023. Dear House, As regards public utility services, the primary requirement for customers to be able to use the services safely and to deal with these matters smoothly is that they should be able to do so. These simple expectations are supported by a number of measures in the bill that has just been tabled. In doing so, I can point out, for example, that in the event of a user change, there is no obligation to carry out an on-the-spot check, but both the user and the service provider can also indicate the need or need for this in the future. As Mr Secretary of State has said, I would like to point out that the extension of electronic administration means that after that, utility service providers who have issued at least 50 thousand invoices to customers instead of 150 thousand bills, will be obliged to provide electronic administration. A number of administrative rules have been simplified in the current bill before us, for example, if the customer announces a change in the data by means of a public service, the service provider, if at the same time it provides several public services to the customer, may also transfer the change for all the public service services it provides. The rules for overpayment are simplified, which, I think, is very important for citizens. By breaking down the artificial limits so far, unless otherwise specified by the client, all overpayments are possible in the user's next accounts. It's an important change. The bill also focuses on improving the situation of consumers to be protected. Contrary to previous practice, there is no regulation that the consumer to be protected must prove his/her status by 31 March of each year. Instead of the consumer to be protected, public authorities then communicate with utility service providers, confirming directly the existence or any change in the status of the consumer to be protected. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In conclusion, the bill before us contains forward-looking provisions on the simplification of public utility services, and I therefore ask my fellow Members to support the proposal, in the light of what has been said, like the Fidesz fraction. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-04-4	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Zsolt Gréczy. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-04-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The parts of the bill that we have in front of us, which are about making the relationship between consumers and service providers simpler, may even be eligible. So everything that is user-friendly means less paperwork, so it can be environmentally useful and even eligible. The problem is that it has already been said here in the introduction how fantastic the overhead prices in Hungary are. Since last April, of course, waiting for the election date, after the election, the electricity flow suddenly doubled and the gas price increased seven times. It is not the government of the Orbán government, but the government of the Orbán government. In addition, we in Europe are the most expensive people to take gas, and this helps the Orbán government to remain in power and to pursue its war goals. [[9.20]] Here it was said from my Fidesz fellow Member that, according to Eurostat data, we pay the least for the overhead. But it doesn't matter how much money we charge. An Austrian consumer may pay 30,000 forints more, say, for gas, but he is likely to make half a million forints more than a Hungarian consumer. It's worth checking out the other half of the statement. Eurostat figures not only show that the rent is cheaper than others in Hungary, but also show that Bulgaria is the only one behind us in terms of average earnings, the Romanians are already ahead of us. It is also very important to note that the proposal is practically a salad law. It is an important element that certain requirements of the environmental law will no longer have to be applied to the construction of the new public transmission grid and the main distribution network, which means that new planned large investments may be excluded from the scope of the environmental law, and this jeopardises the fundamental right to a healthy life. So I think that the service-friendly part of the proposal may be sympathetic, but to say that we are dealing with a government that has made fantastic sacrifices in this area, it is quite simply not a reality. The Hungarian regime has grown brutally since last April, and as a result the Orbán government has caused many hundreds of thousands of Hungarian households serious livelihood problems. Thank you very much.
u2023-05-04-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr István Hollik. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-04-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Intellectually, Zsolt Gréczy was able to reach Putin from the proposal to amend certain laws relating to the simplification of public utility services in 40 seconds. I'm telling you, intellectually, it has nothing to do with the point. And there is one thing that proves that, although the reduction of the rent has been working with the satisfaction of Hungarian citizens for ten years, you have not reached the point of finally realising that the reduction of the rent is useful, it helps Hungarian people, it helps stability and helps Hungarian families. This is especially true when we see the energy crisis caused by the misguided sanctions in Brussels across Europe and the amazing prices to be paid in Western Europe. My fellow Member, the fact is that in Western Europe this winter, the question was not how much gas costs, but how much gas costs. And unfortunately, our bad news is that as long as these sanctions are maintained, this issue will continue to be on the table, and in winter 2023-24, the same question will be that it will be energy at all. And if we are not helped by a mild winter like that which has now helped us in Western Europe, then this could be a problem again. But all of this will not cause problems or problems for the Hungarian people, because the Hungarian people have paid exactly as much for the rent as they paid for the previous year. It's a huge achievement. Predictability and stability are very valuable, and not only for the population, I add, but also for businesses. It is quite clear, and I see that there has been no debate with God that the substance of the proposal actually contains bureaucracy reduction and user-friendly measures, and we are pleased to do so, of course, also with the Christian Democratic People's Party. I think that, if we are talking about the extension of electronic administration, this is now a fundamental principle, not only for the market sector, but also for the public sector. And the fact that the changes affecting consumers to be protected are also strengthened must be supported. I understand that the opposition has an objection to the reduction of the rent, but I ask them, like Fidesz and KDNP, to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-04-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Róbert Dudás. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-05-04-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, The community of Jobbik-Conservatives always welcomes the changes aimed at cutting red tape and more efficient and simpler administration. This is particularly necessary in connection with public utility services. I agree with you that the client's goal is to ensure that the various utility services are used safely, that their affairs are handled quickly and accurately, and that they are always informed of the changes affecting them in a timely and complete manner. Unfortunately, in reality, however, this is not the case at all. Just think of the accounts that are so complicated that I can say that they can also be walked on about if someone puts them on the ground. In particular, this has been the case since the elimination of a partial reduction in the overhead charge, because since then the accounts may have two prices, not to mention that someone has dictated or estimated their consumption. But it's not better when you're on the phone, and it's not better when it comes to personal affairs. There were unfortunate conditions at the MVM customer service at the time of the change in the cost reduction. In the rain and fog, for hours on the street, customers were forced to wait, including disabled people, as well as in many cases elderly, retired people. I am aware that this is an extreme example, but I think you're describing the situation well. Turning to the specific proposal, I would like to highlight first the rules for consumers to be protected. It is proposed that, contrary to previous practice, the regulation that the consumer to be protected must prove his/her status for the future by 31 March of each year will cease to exist. Instead of the consumer to be protected, public authorities then communicate with utility service providers, confirming directly the existence or change of the status of the consumer to be protected. I can only hope that this will work properly in practice. I welcome the change in the involvement of utility service providers whose customers have not yet been able to make use of this form of communication. I believe that this is a modern and XXI. 100th-century advance. And I very much hope that the proposals will also serve the interests of customers in the application of the law. I started by supporting this bill, and I would like to conclude with it. We will support all proposals for cutting red tape and helping the population, including this. At the same time, however, let me make a few more comments when it comes to restructuring and helping families and consumers. In my speech, I mentioned briefly the complexity of the accounts. I'm sure you're aware of what an account-detailer attached to a check looks like. I said we could go on this one when we put it on the ground, otherwise we couldn't. I don't know if the provider that makes it out understands at all what's written in that account, but no consumer can identify with it and can't read out what happened, how much it consumed, why it costs so much, and where the multipliers are. An incredibly complicated system has been developed. If I say this with the greatest good intentions, Mr Secretary of State, in addition to cutting red tape, the aim is to help families, then I would ask you to deal with this, please contact the service providers in order to make this system truly acceptable to the Hungarian people. And one last thought. On behalf of the pro-government representatives, we heard a Hozsanna about how good it is for the Hungarian people, and that the Hungarian government spent the most on public support, the Hungarian people had to pay the lowest rent. If you look at these two things, then I think that in itself it might even be worth the salt. But it's the lowest wage! This has already been said by my fellow Member. Let's not forget that. [[9.30]] And I've heard that the decline in the West, there's nothing to heat it with, is there? Well, thank you very much, but in the declining West, you've had a good time. Obviously, there has been an increase in the overhead bills there, and they may have increased to a higher rate than in the case of Hungarian families, but even if they have doubled, let's say, in Germany, or I could mention any Western country, but I beg you, they earn four or five times and six times as much! So let's not just start with the amounts written on the accounts, but instead start with the fact that this amount is the most important thing, and what a burden it is for Hungarian families! Mr Secretary of State, thank you very much for the presentation, the Group of Jobbik-Conservatives will support the bill and the proposal I have made for the accounts, please consider and take action on this issue. Thank you very much.
u2023-05-04-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches, and now we have the opportunity to make a two-minute speech. Congressman Zsolt Gréczy asked for a two-minute opportunity to speak. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-05-04-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would just like to make one comment, because it has been said here from the mouth of Congressman Hollik that the sanctions in Brussels that have failed are the cause of everything here: well, only one Hungarian has voted in favour of these failed sanctions in Brussels, it is called Viktor Orbán. And then he said it was gonna suck, that's the question, how are we gonna heat it? The question is not only whether it will be gas, the question is whether it will be Russian gas, and Hungary needs the same amount of Russian gas. Let us not forget, in this gas crisis, which has developed, and in the energy crisis, what has happened here recently is that several countries, including the dying Germany, have triggered Russian gas to 100% specifically, and have done the same thing now in the Czech Republic, and other countries have taken the same path. So I think that we should go this way too, that would be, I think, the national interest, but to do so we need to come a little further from the military and other alliance with Russia. Thank you very much.
u2023-05-04-12	Thank you very much. A proper speech will be followed by Congresswoman Zita Gurmai. Here you go. Take your time, Congresswoman. I can see you're getting your desk ready, thank you very much. [[Dr. Gurmai Zita: Thank you very much.]] We'll start when everything's okay. I'm asking you to restore time, thank you very much. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai has the floor, please.
u2023-05-04-13	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Colleagues, I am just opposite a fellow Member whose death always hits me, especially if people close to us go, so allow us to remember him for the first time, or at least very briefly, because I do think that whoever dies on any side of the benches is always a huge loss; but I think that this photograph will remain, this always smiley, always kind person. Now, let's get to the commentary. The submission of the motion raises questions about the bill before us. In November 2022, or just a few months ago, we heard that the brutal rise in energy prices required uniform energy management, which is why the Ministry of Energy was set up under the leadership of Minister Csaba Lantos. We therefore rightly thought that all the issues relating to public utility services and public utility payments were the responsibility of the Ministry of Energy. On the other hand, it is now apparent that this is not the case at all, because this proposal, which seeks to amend the law on district heating, electricity and gas supply, was not submitted by the Minister of Energy, but by Antal Rogán, who manages the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister; the Rogán, who recently insisted in this Chamber that he did not know György Schadl, we can only hope that he knows the energy sector more thoroughly. But the question arises as to why we have the Ministry of Energy if a regulation on energy is removed from him quite clearly. Is it that bad that energy is now subject to the influence of the Minister of Government Propaganda? In connection with the government's usual suspicious procedure, I recall the word from Shakespeare's Hamlet, which has become a classic, that something reeks. What has Minister Csaba Lantos done to deprive him of the opportunity to submit the proposal? Perhaps we should start by discussing the draft to justify this decision, or at least inform us of what has not been made public. However, there are some eligible elements among the points of the proposals. The Hungarian Socialist Party accepts any amendments that benefit Hungarian consumers. These include, for example, facilitations for consumers to be protected. I think it is right that there is no regulation that the consumer to be protected must prove himself to be protected by 31 March of each year. This is important because it is indeed a measure that provides practical assistance. It is a pity, however, that it is not possible to highlight anything other than that which would solve the problem of domestic families in relation to the rent. However, if the burden on the shoulders of the population were to be reduced in a direct proportion with the decreasing credibility and credibility of some government members, we would be able to support your ideas. Unfortunately, however, there is no easing, since in some cases they create even stricter conditions than the existing situation. For example, there is the issue of increasing the limitation period. The proposal repeals the paragraph that the needs arising from the network use contract will expire in three years, which follows that the matter will be governed by the rules of the Civil Code, which says that the claims will expire in five years. In practice, therefore, the bill increases the limitation period for claims arising from the public utility service to five years without giving a specific description or even mentioning it in the justification, so it does not support it with anything. What is the reason for this? Why is there even a justification if you generously forget about it? In addition, despite the fact that it contains a completely non-viable requirement for Hungarian households. So far, it was not likely that everyone had kept every document of performance for three years, but now they will be obliged to do so for five years to prove that they have no debt to the service provider. The question is, do you really keep every document capable of proving your deposit at home for five years? In front of my soul, I somehow do not see the scene that Minister Antal Rogán, who submitted the proposal, emptys his mailbox on his way to work, then carefully puts the letters received from utility operators in Gucci's bag, and, at night, after work, when he comes home tired and exhausted, he puts the certificates of payments in a nicely five-year preservation with the bills issued from helicoptering. However, a few years ago, even the ruling parties considered that the recovery of their own claim was the responsibility of the service providers, if they could not do so within a reasonable time, then it would no longer be possible for consumers to be burdened. What is the reason for the government's rotation? It is difficult to think of anything other than changing the ownership background of individual service providers. It is quite clear that the government has taken the side of consumers instead of Hungarian families in this matter. This is unacceptable and far from in line with the family-friendly government term. This is a technical problem, but a codification error has also entered the text of the proposal. The bill 3. Paragraph 11 of the Act on Electricity provides for the application of Article 36 of the Law on Electricity to pending cases. Paragraph 2 (i). The problem is that there is no point (i) of this paragraph, since paragraph 2 extends from point (a) to point (h), and the bill does not intend to establish such a point. We're all human, anyone can make a mistake, but I've always hoped that a bill will go through a number of hands by the time it comes to Parliament. How could it be that no one noticed that such a mistake was included in a barely a few pages draft? In particular, in the case of a ruling party, such errors are comical, the founding of which and its founders can be linked to a law school. [[9.40]] Here I refer back to the comment made at the beginning of my speech on the subject of the proposal. The propaganda industry may not be the most prepared in terms of energy laws. It seems easier to turn to the wallet the next time we have a separate Ministry of Energy. Everyone can make mistakes, but in the case of a law, we can't just ignore it. I'm sure you can't stay like this. I trust this mistake will be corrected as soon as possible. But that's not the worst, by the way, what the bill we're discussing contains. What is left out of this amendment is much more important. For example, the proposal concerns the rules on data processing. However, there is no indication in the grounds that this has been agreed with the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information. It also seemed clear that the competent authorities would be consulted on changes to customer data. The proposal should therefore be brought before the Parliament only if it has been examined by the NAIH and agrees with the amendment. As automatic data processing is required here in case of changes in customer data, we need to make sure that it is lawful. It is therefore unclear why the NAIH will not be examined, why the approval of the authority is not in the document, even though I am sure that Attila Péterfalvi would take the opportunity to do his homework in no time. However, the most painful thing is the lack of measures that would really help Hungarian families, because there is plenty to do. If we are already touching the energy issue, it would be expected to make it easier for those who need it the most. The Hungarian Socialist Party has drawn up a number of proposals for this purpose. The first and most important thing is to guarantee the minimum necessary to survive. It's never gonna happen again that someone freezes to death in their own home. It is necessary to ensure that everyone at his place of residence has access to the electricity and gas required for life support. It is therefore necessary to introduce a fair billing system that provides a range price system. The largest band must be designed in such a way that the poorest, those living in the most modest conditions, cannot remain without the supply of gas, electricity and water. Local governments, budgetary bodies, small and medium-sized enterprises and public benefit organisations, as well as civilians, are getting louder. They just can't take the burden the government put on them anymore. Predictable conditions are required to obtain the gas and electricity required for operation at a specified price. Special emphasis should be placed on foundations and associations that operate residential social institutions. The cost of these small communities has been brutally increased. The five-time, not rarely ten-fold, price increases could not be paid under the most appropriate management, and the residents could not bear these costs any longer, since many of them could not afford to pay so far. There's no other way. We need to do everything we can to get them back into the protected supply area. Our old demand is to make the prepaid meter set up and reset free of charge. The costs of the switch-back are so high that the one who has been turned off once cannot reconnect, even if the situation has been settled in the meantime, if he can already pay the monthly bill. Therefore, the service provider should not be able to profit from these families, but should be able to access the service. The government also remained in debt in this proposal by settling the situation of LPG cylinders. In vain, an official price was introduced when the statutory presentation was terminated by the manufacturers. Almost a year ago, we indicated that instead of an official 11.5 kg bottle, different bottles were appearing on the market. These are not subject to the official price, so they can be sold more expensively. Thus, we have effectively succeeded in circumventing the intention of the legislator, and Hungarian consumers are not protected by regulatory price regulation. How long are we gonna keep this loophole open? There is also a lack of this energy salad law to reduce the VAT rate for the universal service of natural gas and electricity. It is now almost a cliché that the government pays Europe's most expensive VAT to Hungarian families. We know this very well, and we also know that it is not enough that the biggest increase in the country's history has been carried out and that it is burdened with a record-sized VAT burden, which is why we want VAT on fuel to be 5% instead of 27 percent. Of course, we can clearly see that high energy prices and high VAT are in the interest of the government. High prices also have a higher consumption tax burden on the population, increasing government revenue. Maybe that's the money they're using to finance the ad that there are no restrictions. Meanwhile, thanks to the high VAT alone, a tax increase of more than HUF 100 billion appears in high energy prices. Personal human tragedies exist in the household only for electricity users. We received a lot of requests last summer when the reduction in overhead overhead costs was abolished. The most common problems were those using electricity for heating and cooking. In the spirit of responsible thinking and environmental awareness, many thought of using only electricity in their household. They were struck out of the sky as a lightning bolt, and they were cut off from the preferential prices they were entitled to in the event of gas consumption. In terms of electricity consumption, however, they have become above average consumers in the eyes of the government, even though their living conditions have not changed at all. Minister of State Csaba Dömötör said, even on 17 July, that the situation of those who only consume electricity was dealt with separately, and then they put off the matter, and Minister Gulyás on 25 October dared to admit that they were doing nothing. They have therefore broken their promise to deal separately with those who do not use the gas quota. They didn't do anything, they simply failed those who switched to electricity heating in good faith. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Unlike some of you, the majority of Hungarian families do not have such problems that at home they want to heat up the stretched water-mirror pool or the driveway. Let us not consider a consumer above average who wishes to live only in a small average family home with an environmental awareness. They have been indebted to us for months to establish a single gas tariff system at national level. As a result, gas prices have become much more expensive in some parts of the country than elsewhere. This, of course, will benefit, once again, not Hungarian households, but those close to the government investing in energy supply. Where is the non-profit energy service promised by the Orbán government compared to this? Last but not least, where are the renovated family houses, the modernization of condos and apartments? The vast majority of Hungarian families still live in such real estates, so it is in their primary interest to have a well-insulated, upgraded heating system, because the energy that is not used is still the cheapest energy. I'll continue two minutes from here. Thank you very much.
u2023-05-04-14	Thank you very much. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. I look forward to the push of Congresswoman's button, because I can't say anything until then. [[For signal:]] You have the floor for two minutes.
u2023-05-04-15	Well, in conclusion, it can therefore be said that, apart from some facilitation, this proposal does not do much to solve the problems related to the energy use of families. Basically, we're dealing with an incomplete, inaccurate design. According to the MSZP, the country needs a resisttop to curb the cost of overhead, not fidesz restrictions, because, as one of my fellow Members has just said, the government's supposition and vows to reduce overhead costs are nothing more than a write-off. Thank you so much for listening.
u2023-05-04-16	Thank you very much, Congresswoman, I would like to ask my fellow Members, who would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Tuzson Bence, Secretary of State, if you would like to respond to what has been said in the debate, to make a final statement. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-04-17	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond briefly to what has been said here, going backwards in order, to the words of the Member, on the one hand, who has tabled this bill. Let me highlight that I am, by the way, the government commissioner responsible for deregulation, and I am doing this job in addition to doing a secretary of state. This work also takes place from a technical point of view with the technical help of the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office. This is why this proposal is coming in on this side. [[9.50]] So, in fact, this is the proposal of the Commissioner for Deregulation, but given how a law can be submitted, it was obviously submitted through the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister. So you can expect in the next period that there will be proposals, which are basically administrative reduction, so deregulation-type proposals, which will arrive at the Parliament through the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office. So, before you see any conspiracy theories behind this, it's about me, as Commissioner of the Government, putting forward a proposal to the National Assembly in this way, which is why I am, by the way, the rapporteur for this bill. As far as the rest of the speech is concerned, he criticized our reduction in overhead costs, in most cases the reduction in overhead costs, and the government's policy of reducing the costs. I would like to confirm that the government remains committed to reducing the burden on families and intends to maintain this policy under the most difficult conditions and to continue to provide significant support for the average consumers or those below average consumption. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that there is also a reduced price in terms of overhead for those above average consumption, so that there is and will be a reduction of the rent, and we would like to make ourselves subject to this policy, because it is a very big result of our governance that we have managed to lift a significant social layer from deep poverty to the middle class, which is largely due to the policy of reducing the rent, and we continue to consider this important. It doesn't matter what conditions our fellow citizens live in and what the Hungarian society of the future will be like. Thank you, Mr Péter Dudás, for the words of our fellow Member. It is indeed this work that cannot be completed, so there will always be tasks to be dealt with. Unfortunately, he is not in now, but my fellow Member Péter Dudás has just come back and raised a very important question.
u2023-05-04-18	Mr. Secretary, Róbert Honkers.
u2023-05-04-19	Robert, I'm sorry. He raised a very important problem, and that is the question of the account picture. I completely agree with you, by the way. So if someone takes an account, this has been the case in Hungary for 20 years, he will take an account, but there has been some simplification in the account picture, but that account picture is still not understandable. So, we're looking at an account photo with numbers with different odds of being, like, a man on his feet who's gonna figure it out. And that is why we have also formed a working group, because there are complex questions about how the citizen will be informed in the end, or how his right to information is violated, but still, a simple, clear number must be there. That's all I've had, that's all it cost, and that's all I have to pay for it. So we just have to write this down, so we're working on solving this problem. Thank you very much for the suggestion, but in this sense you are banging open gates, because we are working on this problem, and we are also discussing it with the service providers in order to resolve this problem. Of course, there are many of these issues in this world, too, but as far as cutting red tape is concerned, I myself say that this is actually going to be an endless job, so if we process the legislation of the last 50 to 100 years and go through it nicely, we will find countless areas where this work can be done. We can also say that ten years ago we were in a state where a Hungarian citizen could not live a year of his life without even knowing about it, but otherwise he violated some kind of legislation. Well, that's gonna have to be eliminated, by the way. If a person lives his life normally and legally, he should be given the opportunity not to have rules that he is unaware of, by otherwise living his life with good intentions. So if I can count on your cooperation, thank you very much. I would just like to say a few words to my fellow Member, Zsolt Gréczy: I understand your confusion when speaking, because speaking out of Ferenc Gyurcsány's party, it can be very difficult to talk about the reduction of the rent, because that was the time when the overhead has increased many times, and it is now that, as a result of the policy of reducing the rent, the life of families and the spending of families in Hungary is on a predictable path. We're in a completely different situation. The other, which is an important issue, and has often been the case in Parliament, although this does not belong directly to this bill, but we still have to say that the issue of gas is a physical issue. It is not an ideological question, it is a physical question: how can you arrive and at what cost to Hungary? So the coastal countries, where there may be LNG terminals and they can get gas from somewhere else, are in a different situation than those countries where, by the way, due to historical circumstances, let's say gas pipelines lead somewhere. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Czech Republic.]] Moreover, there have also been very big changes in terms of interconnectors, i.e. in terms of North-South interconnectors in the recent period. The country has done a great deal to get rid of gas dependence, but it is also very important not to walk from one addiction to another, and independence is precisely about obtaining energy from more sources. We would also like to confirm this in the next period, which is in Hungary's interest. Regardless of the war from our neighbour, it is in Hungary's interest to be able to obtain energy at the best possible price and from most places, which is why it is necessary to develop the network in terms of both oil and gas, and not to forget the development of the electricity grid. After all, the major challenge of the next period will be how to meet the growing demand for electricity not only in Hungary but everywhere in Europe. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2023-05-04-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. We now have a general debate on the bill amending certain laws relating to the simplification of the administration of families until closure. The government referral is T/3769. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Tuzson, Secretary of State of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2023-05-04-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Here again, we are faced with a proposal and to go ahead with the issues that we have worked out with my colleagues as the government commissioner responsible for deregulation, and is now arriving at Parliament through the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office. The Hungarian government considers the families to be the main bastion, a point which is a condition of strengthening Hungary as the smallest community. If we strengthen families, then the country will grow stronger, the nation will grow stronger, without strong families there will be no strong nation and a strong country to talk about. This is why, starting in 2010, the Hungarian Government, as a family-friendly government and a family-helping government, has taken a number of measures and we are working on these measures. However difficult the situation may be, whatever war there is in our neighbourhood, whatever the consequences of this and the consequences of the sanctions in Brussels, we do not want to put this down, and we want to carry on the strengthening of families. We have achieved a great deal in recent years, let me mention some of this. Such is the development and operation of a family home-building discount system, which we would like to continue to maintain or to strengthen the support of free textbook provision or mass catering for schoolchildren. But we could talk about the various tax incentives that affect families, or the tax exemption for young people, or the latest measure that will allow families to have another support from 1 January, because women who do not reach the age of 30 and have children will also be granted a personal income tax exemption. I could list a lot more of these types of discounts, but it is also true that we could see that bureaucracy was growing in this area in 2010 too, and if any administration had to be done, then if a family had started on this road or wanted to apply for discounts or subsidies, they had to do a lot of paperwork. That is why we have also looked at this area and here are some proposals that serve precisely to make the lives of families simpler and less administration. Allow me to list some of these proposals from the law now. Such is compulsory proof of student status. You can choose the certificate of student status in two ways, essentially for those who are under the obligation of teaching, so who are not yet 16 years of age. [[10.00]] For them, this certificate is completely unnecessary, since they are required to study. So if a request has to be made for them somewhere, then in the vast majority of cases there is a school obligation, and the small case where a different kind of infringement occurs, so the obligation to teach is not met, on the basis of other sanctions, or on the basis of the records, it seems that this obligation has not been fulfilled, so it is not really necessary here. And over the age of 16, you have enough student IDs, which is the same way you can justify a relationship. A number of families with small children are affected by another change, as we talk about hundreds of thousands of sizes a year, which means switching between children and children. So far, the order was to make a separate request, so anyone who went from child to child had to submit a separate application. Since this is also happening in 99 percent of the cases, people are submitting these requests and going on with this type of care, it has become completely unnecessary and unnecessary; it is easier to introduce this request and to introduce automaticism, so that it can be easily converted from the child to the child. Further simplification, which also means administrative simplification, applies to the request for 50-50 per cent of the family allowance, so that for parents living separately but otherwise having joint parental supervision, it is possible for the parent to request this type of division. There are a number of proposals or proposals in this legislation that specifically relate to the interconnection of electronic registers and allow authorities access from one register to another to establish entitlements, otherwise subject to data protection rules. So this is what we have been paying attention to, and otherwise, during the negotiations, we have had the widest possible consultation. It is also now possible to make a declaration of rights in guardianship matters through visual and voice relations, so that there should not always be mandatory presence. Of course, there are specific cases, such as adoption or identification of origin, where personal presence is justified, so personal presence remains mandatory there, but in addition to the development of current IT tools and the development of communication, it is important that we allow this type of communication as widely as possible. In other areas, we have also made progress on this issue, for example, in the case of contracts, which concern a completely different area, but it is very important that online contracts can be made there, even with all kinds of safeguards, but also with regard to the sale of real estate. This is XXI. By the way, it's already expected. I think that the whole public administration, but not just the area of public administration, but also civil law, should be reviewed in this respect, so there will be a lot of changes of this type in the next period if we want to increase the country's competitiveness. In this connection, we would also like to come to Parliament with a separate package. We also have another provision to help families, and let me finish the list here. In the case of a biological father, the legislation also allows him to declare his claim for maternity allowance if, unfortunately, the mother dies before the application. Obviously, it is important, on the one hand, from a humane point of view, that this is permissible and that it will simplify administration. Overall, I ask you because I think that this series of measures to help families helps Hungarian people and helps Hungarian families in their daily lives to support this bill. Thank you very much.
u2023-05-04-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Sándor Fazekas. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-05-04-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Today's second item is the proposal to amend certain laws relating to the simplification of the administration of families. Dear Parliament, Article 15 of the Fundamental Law 1 and 16 The following are stated in some sections of the article of this article: "Hungary protects families, children, women, the elderly and people with disabilities through special measures. The parents are obliged to take care of their underage children. This obligation includes the education of their children. Mature children are obligated to care for their needy parents. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, The provisions of the Fundamental Law cited above faithfully reflect the position of the Fidesz-KDNP faction association on the fundamental protection of the family as a community of fate, that the parent is obliged to care for the children of the minor at all times, under all circumstances, while the adult child is obliged to care for the parents of the needy. The family, as a basic unit of society, is based on the mutual love, support and protection of the people in it, which the government has provided support on a number of points over the past 13 years, and it is apparent that it intends to continue to widen the range of measures to protect families and to make them more prosperous. Our past years have been shielded by the coronal virus epidemic, but the government has still introduced and expanded a number of measures to improve people's standard of living. Think of supporting young people who are about to start a family with a CSOK and a baby shower with credit, reimbursing family members, and a personal income tax exemption for young people under the age of 25 and mothers under the age of 30. Unfortunately, after the reduction of the epidemic situation, our present situation has been shielded by the economic and energy crisis caused by the war in our neighbourhood for more than a year now and the failed sanctions in Brussels, in which a series of decisions had to be taken to protect the interests of the Hungarian people. Today, however, there are many criticisms from left-wing politicians who question the measures introduced by the national government, which also greatly support the livelihoods of family members, while blindly supporting the sanctions policy that is driving Europe to the brink of bankruptcy. If it were up to the left, the price stop would not be guaranteed for basic food and there would be no reduction in the cost of protecting Hungarian families. The proposal before us is also an amendment to the legislation currently in force, along the lines of a logic that aims to simplify the lives of families. Among other things, the proposal aims to simplify the administration of families. The first of these is the determination of the child ex officio. This bill provides practical assistance to family support administrations. It is important to facilitate that the right to a childcare fee, the provision of childcare after the termination of the child, and the identification of the child for the parent who was entitled to a child benefit are carried out ex officio. This amendment would enter into force from 1 July 2024. The second is the question of proving the status of students and students. It is worth simplifying for parents, as we have heard from the author, that, apart from some exceptional circumstances, the parent or student may not be required from 1 September 2023 to certify the status of student until the end of the academic year in which the student reaches the age of 16. After the school obligation has expired, the student can confirm his/her student/student status with a valid student card until the end of his/her academic career. If, during the duration of the student/student relationship, proof of legal status is necessary in the proceedings of a court or administrative authority, because there is doubt as to the existence of a legal relationship, the court or authority may contact the Education Office or the State Administration of Vocational Training for the purpose of certifying the status of student or student. The third is the distribution of family allowances, maternity allowance. In view of the change in the provisions of the Civil Code Act concerning the exercise of parental supervision, the proposal amends the 1998 LXXXIV on support for families. Law on 50-50 per cent of family allowances in order to allow one of the separate parents to submit an application for the distribution of family allowances. [[10.10]] A further change that the biological father may qualify for maternity allowance may require maternity allowance if the mother has died before the application and the father takes care of the child. The fourth is social services. While a personal declaration of rights in the case of a customer who resides abroad should be regarded as a personal declaration of rights made by electronic means ensuring simultaneous image and voice links, this is not currently granted to domestic customers, this should be extended. Exception to this is matters relating to adoption and establishment of origin, where a personal interview is, by its nature, still justified. In order to safeguard the customers involved in the proceedings and to reduce the administrative burden of the determining authority, in cases where the facts are fully clarified on the basis of the documents received and no new information is expected from the client, the hearing may be omitted in the custody proceedings. In view of the above, we see that this bill would facilitate the administration of families and public administrations. By saving administrative burdens, customers, families and public authorities will also be in a better position. The government is committed to supporting the administration of families by making the relevant rules more favourable. In my view, by adopting this proposal, administrative efficiency can be substantially improved, which would be an important relief for those involved in the given life situation, so I would also ask my honourable fellow Members, my fellow Members on the left, to bear this in mind when the decision is made. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for your attention. I urge you to support this proposal on the basis of what has been said. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-04-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Zsolt Gréczy. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-05-04-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, A number of elements of the bill before us would also be eligible for opposition representatives, but there are some parts of the proposal that should be discussed separately, and then I would also like to say a few words about the fact that the Orbán government is truly family-friendly. The bill is 2. In its section, the designation of methodological centres, which is also included in the Fundamental Rights Act, except that they will now be designated not by the government, but by a mini instrument competent according to the subject. Since it is methodological centres, perhaps the increasingly obvious professional problems of the foster family network could be harassed here, which is one of the serious problems of family politics in Hungary at the moment. In Hungary, there are many excellent foster parents who all contribute to the best possible development of the children they have with them. They have the necessary personality and expertise to really help children with the most difficult fates. However, foster care also has major systemic problems. For example, there are not enough foster parents, despite serious public and civil efforts, to recruit foster parents. In addition to the low number of foster parents, their territorial distribution is also a problem. In several counties, foster parents are particularly absent. There is no uniform professional protocol for the proper selection and screening of foster parents, so many unfit foster parents work in the system. Even though the selection process is somewhat regulated, it is often impossible to choose from suitable professionals, so because of the justification for the urgent placement of the child, they can choose a person who complies with the statutory minimum standards as a foster parent. The foster family system also lacks foster parents who are able to care for children with special or special needs, leaving them with the only solution left within the institutional framework, which could cause these children further very serious trauma. This is the case, when a child is confronted with the fact that he doesn't need anyone, they don't take him out of the home, but a partner has been chosen. I think it would hurt every good person's soul. A systemic problem is even a halt to foster care, which is essentially an increase in the average age of the current foster parents, although it is legally stated that the age difference between the caregiver and the child can be no more than 50 years. In practice, this age can often be even higher, as the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights has also stated that this is in no way conducive to the proper development of children. I would also like to add that an advanced family policy, which would be inevitable and extremely important in Hungary, would include trying to adapt the Hungarian family policy support system to European figures and amounts. For example: have a European minimum wage, a European minimum pension, a European family allowance and a European health minimum. This is the real family support system, and everything else is basically just bullshit. I would also like to say that we are in a sharp debate with the Orbán Government on whether they are indeed a family-friendly government. I know the turns that have been used to underpin this, but how can you talk about a family-friendly government if 600 thousand Hungarians have left Hungary since 2010? ! 600,000 Hungarians! There is no Hungarian family today where there is no involvement, or at least in its immediate surroundings there is no person who has left the country effectively. It is also a very worrying survey, and this is not a compliment of family policy, either, that half of the high school students surveyed are planning to make progress abroad. This simply leads to a national tragedy. If the young Hungarians leave the country, it follows that they will work outside, study outside, find them outside, have their children born outside. A lot of Hungarian children are already born abroad, and unfortunately we have to prepare for them that they may never come to Hungary again, and they will not even learn Hungarian. This is indeed a national tragedy that we all need to pay close attention to. Then it is also a typical situation in Hungary when we talk about a family-friendly government, that much fewer children are born than even 10-15 years ago. In the worst year of the Gyurcsány government, more children were born than in the best year of the Orbán government; this is a statistical fact. There was a family allowance increase then, and there were school, kindergarten renovations, there weren't as many pediatricians missing from the system as we are now. We just need to look at the housing loan system in Hungary today. Today's young couple who want to get an apartment can either get support from the family or have to struggle almost hopelessly to get an apartment in a proper credit arrangement. Anyone who takes out a $15 million loan has to pay back $25 million. This is virtually impossible in Hungary's wage conditions. So, I think that when we are talking about family-friendly politics, we should help families, for example, by reducing those baby shower products, which are still 27 percent VAT areas today, quite simply to 5% or zero percent. It's just not okay to say that the diaper or stroller has 27 percent VAT. That's not a family-friendly gesture, and I don't think it would bring down the budget if there were any progress. I also think it is important to note that what has happened to universities is not good for emigration, either, that the governing parties have invaded these universities by creating special curatoriums, and that it is not helpful for Minister Martin Nagy to announce today that lending has been practically frozen in Hungary; I am not saying this, he says. This also indicates that it is very difficult to get from one to two for a young family today, a young couple, and then I didn't mention that at the Carmelite monastery, protesting students see tear gas and violence receiving them in the Castle, instead of negotiating meaningfully to improve the Hungarian education system. Thank you very much. [[10.20]]
u2023-05-04-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr László Földi, Member of the Parliament. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-04-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Before I speak about the draft law, since Parliament is discussing today the law on support for families, let me announce that my eighth grandson was born this morning. [[Applause. Bence Rétvári: Bravo!]] One of the principles and practical foundations of government policy is consistency, and we are not turning on our goals and methods in a way that is not a windcock. We are consciously resisting the harmful effects of foreign political or cultural currents, perhaps powers, which have expanded into world order. When we look for newer forms and tools of support for families, we are also on this path, even if this road is bumpy and sometimes has a great counterwind. The world's value crisis has led the family, as the most important unit of society, to be destroyed. As long as we can and can, we won't let that happen. We are particularly concerned with improving the demographic situation and we are working to focus support for families and children at all levels of public thinking. In recent years, the government has spent hundreds of billions of forints on family support, helping families to improve their finances. We introduced tax discounts, introduced the family home-building discount, the grandparents' lawn, extended nursery and nursery seats, helping women to participate in the labour market in order to make it easier for women to reconcile work and family life. Our aim is to create a family-friendly environment in Hungary, which helps families to live a happy and full life. These are also the purposes of the legislative amendments that we are discussing. In short, make the lives of families simpler, make the administration faster and especially in the interests of children. My fellow Member, the lead speaker and secretary of state of Fidesz, have also mentioned the most important changes listed in this draft law. I would also like to discuss these briefly. We consider it a significant relief that after the termination of the entitlement to the childcare fee, childcare care and child benefit will be established on an ex officio basis. Or we also consider it very important that there is a substantial simplification for parents that, apart from some exceptional circumstances, from 1 September of this year, no evidence of student status can be requested from the parent or student until the age of 16 until the completion of the school obligation. After the school's obligation has expired, the student can verify his/her/her status as a student with a valid student card until the end of his/her academic career. We also consider it particularly important that a 50-50 share of the family allowance may be submitted by one of the separate parents in the future, or that the biological father has also been entitled to maternity benefits if the mother dies. We also consider it important that, as of 1 July, the public employment body can access the data necessary for registration and the establishment of benefits directly from the social register. Dear House, Why should the government support making the administration of families easier? I have seven answers to that. My first answer is saving time. Simplification and automation of administration reduces bureaucracy and administrative burdens, making families spend less time on administration and spending more time on their families and other tasks. My second answer is accuracy. Simplified procedures and documents make administration easier for families. If the documents are complicated, it is much harder to fill them correctly, which may take longer to handle and increase the chances of making mistakes. My third answer is to save money. Easier and faster administration can lead to significant savings for families. My fourth answer is better access to families. The simplified administration procedures will make families more accessible to public services. My fifth answer is reduced bureaucracy. Simplified systems reduce bureaucracy and administrative burden, which can also improve the efficiency of public services. My sixth answer is a better standard of living. Thanks to simplified and faster administration, families have more time and money for the most important things, such as education, a healthy life, and entertainment. My seventh answer is that simplified family administration improves the relationship between the state and citizens, as citizens will be more satisfied with the quality and efficiency of government services. Ladies and gentlemen, With reference to all this, on behalf of the parliamentary group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, I express the support of our group, and I respectfully ask all Members of Parliament to do so. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2023-05-04-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Ms Zita Gurmai. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-04-29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, Mr. Secretary. The bill before us contains several amendments which facilitate the application for individual benefits and simplify procedures. We consider these steps to be positive, but at the same time we need to draw attention to the fact that the amount of maternity allowance, child benefit and baby bond has not increased in 15 years. Thus, as impressive as the independent bill, which is intended to simplify administration, does not change the point much. It is difficult to say the popular saying that this is a great help to Hungarian families. But let us look at some elements of the proposal. It should be pointed out that the child will automatically walk when the lawn is removed, and there is no need to apply separately. That makes sense, since everyone is essentially entitled to go on, so after the end of the lawn, it is understandable that it would be unnecessary to bother with a separate application. However, they have somehow not thought of this, and in the last 13 years, there have been a number of truly facilitating amendments to the application for family benefits. Together with today's centralised administration and modern technology, families will have to do as little wandering as possible in bureaucratic mazes. Here we have also arrived at the criticism of the proposal, as this automation will only take effect in the summer of 2024. Why? I hope Mr. Secretary will respond. We are pleased that the government has finally reached the point of not having to require a special care for parents that they are almost certainly entitled to after the termination of another care, such as gyed, gyed, but we do not understand why we have to wait another year for this. The government's website contains a draft amending certain government regulations related to the simplification of the administration of families, which according to its impact assessment paper will cost some HUF 28 million, but it has not been found out what it is. Could you please inform me about this, Mr. Secretary? It is not clear that if something simplifies, in a way, becomes automatic, then why is it avoiding the, uh-huh! More than that. It is also linked to the fact that in the future, if the next child is born during or within one year of the transfer of the graduate child, then it will be possible to establish the graduate child again. That sounds great, but it doesn't affect many people. According to the Impact Assessment Paper on the draft legislation on the government's website, only 1300, I repeat: 1300 people receive graduate lawn at all. [[10.30]] We remember that they used to fill the world with the elements of the ged extra package, and then plant the family protection action plan on the country. So much for the large and significant measures taken by the family-friendly government; by taking advantage of some of its elements, even more has been spent on propaganda on this issue than on supporting those involved. Then there are also measures that do not seem to be substantive changes; such is the maternity allowance, which the reasons for which state secretary and my fellow Member have already spoken about:. With the amendment, the biological father may also be entitled to maternity allowance, so that he can claim maternity allowance if the mother dies before the application and the father takes care of the child. This is truly a tragedy, but it is surprising, because the law in force is 30. If the woman entitled to the maternity allowance dies before receiving the allowance, the maternity allowance shall be paid to the father in the household with the mother, in the absence of that person, to the person who takes care of the child. In addition, this section does not affect the current proposal, so there will be essentially two provisions from the same point of view; it is true that there are so many differences that, as mentioned above, the term "father" is used in one of them, and in the other, the preparation of a father who used to live in a household is not logical, but this codification does not seem logical. There are also changes in relation to the customer gate. Based on the wording of the explanatory statement, the development of the Hungarian Treasury ensures that, if the client has access to a customer gate, regardless of whether the client has submitted his application electronically, the official document resulting from the procedure may be sent to the customer gate hosting site, provided that this method of contact is not excluded in the provision register. At the same time, according to the standard text, this option will not be, but a basic way of delivery, and indeed it is included in the draft that it will deliver it to the customer's safe delivery service address, regardless of the form of contact chosen, if it has not been excluded by the customer in the provision of the administration. So if I understand correctly, you will not receive the documents electronically unless you explicitly exclude the possibility of the client. This would be a clear positive step if the customer gate system were much more transparent and manageable than today. It's worth considering, by the way. According to the draft, if the second delivery is unsuccessful, the document must be served by post. Question is, what is considered to be a failed delivery at the customer gate, especially since the sender's e-mail about the mail received at the customer gate is that the object is that the message was sent to the customer's home. Instead of one click to reach the message itself. Thus, many may lose notice of an important decision or decision, perhaps even losing the possibility of an appeal. Finally, some thoughts on one of the main elements of the proposal. It is good that the government has finally realised that the student ID can replace unnecessary documents on the certificate of student status and that compulsory certification of student status in individual procedures will cease. At the same time, it is worth noting that since 2016 there has been an e-personal card, which is a tweezed card that could in principle have replaced all our other cards: a taxi card, a tax card. To date, the first question in every health institution is that we have a property card, but even the Treasury doesn't have an e-personal reader, the software is supposed to be faulty, but there aren't even any reading devices in many places. It should be noted that it is not clear that any of this affects the rules on family allowances in any way, because if they automatically consider the child to be a student up to the age of compulsory education, how can they take the support from them? Overall, we consider the amendments to be positive, but they remain unchanged, and this is an extremely low amount of benefits. Once again, the amount of maternity allowance, child benefit and family allowance has not increased in 15 years. In fact, it does not make living, having children, raising children easier for Hungarian families. Thank you very much and I look forward to the answers from the Secretary of State. I've given you some suggestions. I think it's worth thinking about. Thank you very much.
u2023-05-04-30	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Róbert Dudás. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-05-04-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Allow me to begin by reacting a little to your intro. You started by saying that if we strengthen families, we will strengthen the nation itself, and if we build families, we will build the nation itself. By the way, we can fully agree with this, but I trust that you and you can see that, although a number of support schemes have been put in place and we agree with them, we cannot say that the government has achieved its goal and that it has actually done everything in its potential for families. This is an area where I cannot, I think, give different eulogys, list some grants from time to time, because they need to be kept under constant review and kept up-to-date. Changing the world, changing the system, it must be seen that otherwise the well-meaning aid schemes achieve the goal of achieving the effect that the legislator originally targeted. So I am asking you, in addition to maintaining the current family support systems, to review, in fact, the situations in which you have the right effect, because I think that there are a number of things that deserve rethinking, and that, by the way, even higher aid amounts or other schemes need to be developed. So once again, it is not enough to maintain all these things, but to keep them under constant review. He mentioned, Mr Secretary of State, that there is also a part in the bill that from now on the family allowance can be divided up to 50-50 per cent between the two parents in certain cases. Let's be honest, this applies to a small number, most likely, quite few will use it in this way, but it's okay if only a few, but it's possible for them to do so, it's already a result. At the same time, we could achieve a really serious result if, let's say, there had been an increase in the family allowance since 2008. I understand that it is a work-based society, I understand and agree with this, and I agree with you, but we are talking about family support for this bill. The family allowance in 2008 represented a completely different purchasing power than in 2023, I think it is clear. So in this case, although we agree with this proposal, this would have the desired effect if this amount had been raised. I am going to go to a few points on the bill, but I am going to say first of all that the community of Jobbik-Conservatives endorses all positive family support measures, so our group will also support this bill. The most important issue of our nation is the resolution of a population disaster threatening the horror of total collapse, and we therefore welcome the measures that focus on a humanistic approach rather than a bureaucratic attitude, thus encouraging our fellow countrymen to start a family. But it is not my place to make a sound about the pro-government proposal, because its points are positive, but they do not contain cardinal steps, so I believe that the sense of absence is justified. It is a good thing to ease the situation of families, but given the severity of our demographic situation, it may be justified to say that much more significant progress would be needed in order to avoid the worst scenario that has been observed in Hungary for decades, as it is unprecedented in our entire history. [[10.40]] Those who are aware of the gravity of the problem arising from Hungary's first question of fate are now not afraid of the widespread and devastating consequences of population explosion, but of the demographic collapse, as population policy is complex in relation to health policy, social policy, employment policy, housing policy and education policy, and therefore can only be seen in its depth in their complexity. The demographic disaster on the Hungarian nation seems almost unsolvable, and immediate action is more urgent than anything else. The demographic crisis in Hungary has been going on since 1958. So we're not talking about something new. The total fertility rate was first reduced to below 2.1 that is essential for reproduction, i.e. fewer children were born than would have been sufficient to maintain the population. And in 1962, compared to the population, we had the least children in the world. The destruction of social and national consciousness; the atomicization of the social fabric system; the disintegration and disintegration of multigenerational large families with differentiated division of labour; the lack of a family-friendly employment policy; the epidemic spread of deviancies dangerous to society; the increasing uncertainty of the conditions necessary for child rearing and the growth of social anomaly, the population reproduced itself in just four years between 1974 and 77. Due to the law of population dynamics, natural weight loss became visible only after the eighties, since the shift of about two decades is characteristic of demographic cycles. That's why the trouble that started earlier became noticeable only from 1981. Hungary's population has now fallen from 10 million levels of 700,000 in 1980 to 9.5 million by a good 10 percent drop. In the year 99 the natural weight loss has reached almost 50,000, and if current trends do not change, by the middle of the century, the population of the Trianon Csonka-Hungary will be reduced to 7.5 million, even in the most optimistic estimates. If we consider that over the last three and a half decades many of our cross-border national brothers have relocated from the ripped areas, we can say, however, that the number of Hungarians in Truncatedland has decreased by around 2 million since 1980, which corresponds to about 20 percent weight loss. It is a sad fact that due to the social norms, administrative and social policy conditions of today's Hungary, every new child's childhood is an additional burden that does not pay off for parents in terms of material goods, social recognition, and safety of life even in the long term. However, if a parent generation is forced to give up more than two children in the interests of their own safety or comfort, then unfortunately, it will also give up a significant proportion of the future of its nation. KSH surveys show that negative processes, i.e. the decrease in births and the increase in natural weight loss, have accelerated and mortality declines are showing too slow improvement. As a result of the downward spiral, we have come to the point where population loss causes measurable economic loss. An English economist, who was named, believed that there was a clear interaction between the economy and population, as infrastructure and institutional costs continue to increase with an ageing population, and investment opportunities are legally narrowing down. The shift in age structure rates contributes even more to the migration of the most dynamic layers of people, thus weakening the human resources of our counties. Dear Secretary of State, The birth rate decreased by 20 percent compared to the same period of the previous year, and what is even more worrying is that fertility has also declined, which has not been seen since 2011. If we are talking about family support: you have mentioned a number of support schemes, I have mentioned them, and I have also added that we agree with them, but at the same time we need to keep them under review, but I think that it is the task of the government and the Parliament to help families with their daily lives, to help raise children and to find all the means there. For example, a reduction in the price of child-rearing articles. This can be done by releasing the nearly world record VAT on Europe. I think that this would be a fundamental step, that neither on diapers nor on baby food, and I could now have a long list of children's education articles, which, by the way, is a very serious expense for all parents and families who have children from month to month, where they would release the near world record VAT. The same way they'd let go of basic food VAT. This was done by the countries in the area, there were countries where even the taxes on wages were released, there were such countries in Western Europe. But I don't want to take it to the overhead right now, but at the same time, this can be mentioned, as families also have to pay these bills. However, the remission of taxes on basic foods, I think, is essential and extremely important. If we look at food price increases, we have nine countries in the world with higher price increases. So Hungary is the tenth with a 44 percent increase in food prices, now 42,6 percent, and otherwise there is no country in the whole European Union where it would exceed 30 percent. By the way, the average is 19 percent. It is more than 40 percent in Hungary. This was achieved, among other things, by the introduction of price caps, which, in addition to the fact that an extension has now taken place, has been accompanied by various additions from the government. The price caps introduced are a very well-communicable message, but the impact on the economy and inflation is extremely negative. Seven to eight, eight to ten products have been recorded, but the price of all other products has increased even more in proportion, as the trade chains have added these benefits to other products. When you look at last year, in the first semester, two thousand small businesses were destroyed. If this trend has continued, I do not know the exact figure, then last year, four thousand small businesses have been destroyed. If this mandatory action now takes place in certain large companies, large supply centres, it will mean that more convenience stores will unfortunately be forced to close. I could talk about our proposal for a decision towards children with special needs, but a fellow Member will mention this. This step is also essential to which we do not understand why we have not received positive feedback. They did not dare to vote, but with a firm abstention they did not support this proposal. And for one last thought, because when you look at families, it's natural to talk about every member of the family, but at the same time, it's the mother who really is, I think, that she's a close-up and the main support of a family. It's hard to find a part-time job for mothers with small children on a press report. Nearly 64 percent of working mothers work full-time, with only 36 percent working part-time. Almost 70 percent of mothers do not work from home, only 14.6 percent can work from home and another 14.6 percent work from home. So, speaking of facilitating the lives of families, we would also like to see such proposals in a bill on how we can help mothers so that they can work as much as possible, whether part-time or from home, because otherwise we can promote child rearing. [[10.50]] And then an actual last thought, perhaps I started by saying that we support this bill, our faction supports this bill, is positive, but we feel that it does not contain cardinal steps, so we have a sense of absence. I hope that we will see a number of similar legislative proposals that have a positive impact on the lives of families in the period ahead.
u2023-05-04-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was the lead speaker of the Group of our countries, Mr President Novák. There you go. You have the floor.
u2023-05-04-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We support the legislative package on simplifying the administration of families, however, we would also like to highlight what shortcomings there are on the one hand, and that simplification in itself also carries the risk of pouring out the child with bath water; and not only do families often not use state subsidies on paper, of course, in principle, and thus ultimately it will not be easier to raise children, and there will be no greater need to have children, because it is complicated, but also because they do not even know about it. Therefore, in addition to complexity and its simplification, information would also be extremely important, but we do not see social advertisements nowadays, but rather government propaganda, of course, unbridled. Therefore, I think that if the government could show some restraint at least in the year following the election, in a small period of peace, not conducting an election campaign, it would have had a place, whether on billboards or in other ways, to launch some kind of campaign or to send useful social messages, because they often do not know what they are entitled to. Of course, I understand that too much can not be put in the window right now, it is no coincidence that we understand that Viktor Orbán was able to offer virtually nothing to the families in his argument-evaluation speech, even though so far the largest, so to speak, window space for the government was just family policy, which he was so proud of. Now, who can tell us who is the State Secretary for Family Affairs in Hungary? This is where we came in, and the previous major achievement, such as the legendary 100 thousand or 99 thousand forints tax relief for three children, the MNB's official statement of last year, before the great inflation, was worth only half as much as it was when it was introduced. And that is, of course, true of other family support, so that we don't talk about family allowances. But of course, my heart breaks not primarily because of the fact that certain forms of family support, housing support, support for large families to buy cars, but because of the fact that they are completely gone and what they are devalued, because the government is unfortunately interested in it, and is taking advantage of this great inflation, it actually inflates the subsidies. After all, only pensions are inflation-seekers, in a way, or at least legally guaranteed, on paper, although it is possible to argue about consumer baskets, what should be weighed into this, but at least somewhat inflation-following, family support is not so much. Not at all, because they are stuck, for example, which is the backbone of family support, of course it is not the family allowance, but, let's say, the family discount has practically been stuck since its introduction in 2011, and it is no longer worth half as much as it was when it was introduced. It is also important to draw attention to the fact that the current bill simplifies a lot of things, for example, according to the current proposals for amendments, the compulsory certification of student and student status will be terminated, which was undoubtedly an unnecessary bureaucratic way to play a little bit to make the system more bureaucratic, the fewer people will use it. However, now that these grants have been infiltrated, it may be easier to access them. However, it is not clear from the bill exactly what it means to quote the child who is subject to the school, with the exception of proof of student status, provided for by law or government decree, it is not possible to ask. This does not mean, for example, that the conductor cannot control the student status of children using student discount services, such as gypsy children. So I think that we should be careful, and that we should be a little more precise about these regulations. It's not like it was a lifelike thing for a conductor to dare ask for a ticket in such a case, especially if he's older, the proper certificates or the ticket itself. We could tell a lot of stories about this, tell a lot of tales of tragedy, in case the conductor or the BKV inspector took the liberty of asking for or performing. In any case, a more precise amendment should be made, and I would ask that this be made clear, even in the answer here. On the other hand, the laws amended by the bill, such as the Child Protection Act, would have allowed for more substantive amendments, but it seems that this Child Protection Act is also used, provided and granted for campaign purposes until the elections, and now it is planned to be amended in autumn. What are you waiting for? If they wanted to, they'd rewrite a Fundamental Law in a day, that would be justified. To mention only the most recent thing, we have just been banned from protesting the Hungarian Movement, which we wanted against the LGBTQP propaganda, against the propaganda marches, while not banning the march of young children promoting deviance, which, unfortunately, also puts the Child Protection Act, I think, in a subpoena, and it seems to be used only for propaganda steels. I do not wish to present our various ideas and suggestions here, but let us highlight, in this context, that simplification and reduction of bureaucracy are certainly justified, and it would be good to face what has already been said by President György Matolcsy, the last time I asked an immediate question here in Parliament, he himself confirmed that although he thought that the government had started in the right direction in 2010, but since 2016 the dynamics have decreased, unfortunately only half of the road has been managed to increase the fertility rate. We have been stuck, there has been a relapse, so he has called for a new demographic government programme, which seems to have been pushed, not seen, nor seen any growing, not even inflation-following family support. I would therefore like to urge, first and foremost, that they make family support a follow-up to inflation, predictable and predictable. It is not fair to set up and start a business without knowing what tax policy awaits them; but if a family takes on a child and child education for decades, it is not fair that it will be inhibited to this extent, it will not be worth half as much in a few years as it was when it was introduced. We need about 20,000 more newborns a year. The President of the Central Bank has also confirmed that without demographic expansion or growth, there will be no economic success. So there are several reasons why this would be necessary, and why the programme of the Mi Hazank Movement Virradat also states that this is the greatest tragedy of the Hungarians, and in this connection we need a serious demographic programme, but we do not see this. And not only the family discount, but in general, it can be said that today, and this has been shown several times by TÁRKI, being a large family is a greater risk of poverty, such as being retired and old. It is therefore appropriate to consider among our proposals, for example, in addition to inflation-following family support, to be precise: do not consider, now, the abolition of VAT on articles for child rearing, which is also promoted by other opposition parties. Let them also face the shame that full-time parenting is either not working, or if the form of family support is working in Hungary today, it is still HUF 28 500 gross for some years. 28 500 forints, if you want to spend your whole life raising children by raising, say, three or four children. Of course, with the Gypsy issue in mind, there is also a need for various guarantees, which means that we must demand school education, a long-term employment relationship, an unpunished record, and this is also advocated by the programme of the MiHazánk Movement Virradat, but the fact that all these are being swept down leads to a serious demographic disaster that, on the one hand, we can become a minority in our own country in this century and, on the other hand, cannot be maintained, let alone the pension system, but social security, the collapse of the entire public finances is threatening if this is not changed. [[11.00]] I therefore ask that, as a first step, the inflation-following family support system be created, because in order to have a transparent and predictable future, we also need to know what we have now, what will be the value of next year and then. In the case of family support, this would be particularly justified, so please make it clear to the government in your reply, which you have always been wrong about, so that you can accept this fundamental principle of the Hungarian Movement, or you can just absolve this already complex and complex system. Or even with gestures, they are willing to reduce the government's propaganda, but instead to carry out real social messages and even a campaign to encourage children or even to protect their lives in relation to family support instead of government propaganda. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-05-04-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to make proper speeches. I give the floor to Dániel Z. Carpathian from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2023-05-04-35	Mr President, Dear House, I am very pleased that the gravity of the demographic disaster situation is being recognised by more and more people in Hungary. In the last ten years, we have had the opportunity to hear about an irritating demographic trend or as if certain processes had occurred in Hungary. Sadly, even after the indisputable and welcome temporary increase in fertility rates, it did not reach the level that would have been sufficient to keep at least the same number of people in this country as we are now. So the predictions of a 6.5 million Hungary by the end of the century, in the case of very good scenarios, are not exaggerating at all. Such a reduction in population would create an economic cataclysm. Few people are talking about the fact that our infrastructure, our different supply systems, have been designed for a much larger number, so with a lower population, their effectiveness will deteriorate to an astonishing extent. We see that what is in this proposal is good, I think many of my fellow Members have said why it is good, and I do not want to repeat it, and I do not want to do it anymore. I think we need to support this. However, it is worth talking about what is not included in this proposal. To be honest, I don't understand the government's shyness in these matters. I see that there are basic philosophy: a work-based society, I support it, as little as possible on the subject law, and as much as possible on the job, I support that. There's no argument between us. I don't understand construction in many cases. We also welcome the changes to your graduate child, but it was rightly said by a fellow opposition Member that we are trying to make the fate of 1300 stakeholders a little easier. That's good, but there's hundreds of thousands of them without an orderly fate. We also see that the whole family support system had a positive aura at the moment of its introduction. Family tax breaks came in, it was obvious that the family allowance was frozen on the 2008-09 level, but on the other hand, there was the family tax relief. And in some incomprehensible way, the value of this is continuously inflated, so it is not always increased annually in an inflation-weighted manner. At the same time, however, the frozen value of the family allowance is now such a small value that the amount of VAT paid by an average family of children after the articles for raising children exceeds the amount of the family allowance. So now the Hungarian budget is more supported by an average of one child's educators than the amount of support it receives from them on the basis of a subjective right to raise its child. (The President's seat is Dóra Dúró, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Family allowance is an eternal debate between us, and I think it's worth being honest about that. We see the freezing of its value and the goals behind it. I'm a partner in making sure that no one gets three times the current family allowance. At the same time, we came up with a family card institution that could double the family allowance. This would be worth roughly as much now as if we were weighting inflation since the 2010 government change, but this cannot be spent on anything. We undertake this debate and this struggle, yes, I declare that it will not end up in the one-armed robber, it will not be possible to use these allowances for gambling and not for certain recreational products, but it would also be possible to pay for basic food, child rearing, child housing costs and otherwise the services necessary for its mental and physical development. Thus, these amounts would clearly be used in the interests of the child. I am confused that the government has not even considered introducing the family card institution in this way. The cost of this would be one fifth of the additional revenue generated by VAT this year. Once again, one fifth of the unexpected extra income could thus be very, very serious, to a high degree to support child rearing and childbearing. And there you are really confused about the behaviour of the government when, in the case of children with SNI, families of children with autism spectrum disorder, there is a demand for support, an eternal recurring demand. This is in the form of a kilometer charge that the family concerned may claim if the State fails to fulfil its obligation, for example if a child with an SNI does not have a development institution in the city, in the residence where his development could be provided, and he must be transported to another settlement, even on a daily basis. This can be claimed for a kilometer, which is actually good for not vaporizing the amount of weed typically received by the family simply by spending on gasoline in the month in question. This mileage fee is currently 21 forints/km, an amazingly low amount, which is actually not enough to pay off depreciation. We have submitted a perfectly logical proposal from stakeholders to make it 50 forints per kilometer. We were also able to indicate the cost of this. The support for the family members of children with SNI, which, I repeat, would have increased from 700 million to approximately one and a half billion at the time, is about enough not to evaporate the weeds. In the first instance, in the Committee on Welfare, we have been promised that this will be supported by the pro-government representatives, after minimal amendment. When the minimum amendment was made, this proposal was canceled by a misopposed vote and a lot of abstentions, and then it was announced before the TAB that the reason they would not really be able to support it is because this increase to 1.5 billion is a little more, but it still does not fit into the budget because we understand that the war situation and sanctions are inflation. In the meantime, the cost of a poster campaign on one of these subjects was reported to be 8 billion. So a quarter of this would certainly have been enough to give priority support to all families with SNI children involved. I'm indiscreet in front of you. Even if you are only moved by political PR considerations, it is very difficult to do good with so many people from such a low budget source. So this would have been a win-win situation. So I'm going to get you to think about it, submit it under your own name, and I'm going to vote on this proposal, and I want you to go through it because it doesn't cost you much, but it helps the families involved a lot. I also scrape you to the same extent in order to reduce VAT on child rearing articles, which has been rightly said by many of my fellow Members. Once again, only for the VAT on children's articles, an average family with one child pays more than he receives in the form of a family allowance. Here, the enforceability of family tax relief is a question and a achievement to be assessed in a conditional manner. If they are unable to use this or not fully, the interests of the child will be severely impaired. It would therefore be entirely logical to introduce the family card institution, to reduce the VAT on child rearing articles. And there is another factor: the health fund, which can be reclaimed for housing or early retirement savings, is actually a tax benefit or a form of support. This was also introduced about ten years ago, and, to my knowledge, the amount of this is also unchanged. Take a typical example: a family with a child's health insurance card can buy a lot of children's education articles. The annual limit for the tax relief that can be enforced is perhaps 120 thousand forints, which has remained unchanged for ten years. Here, too, inflation should be used to weigh the fact that if a family that has children buys similar products, they can claim this 20% back up to a certain amount of reasonable value. Pension savings is also a similar story, there is also a top hat here. Inflation is booming, eating the value of these forms of support, but at the same time the top hat, the limit, has been the same for very, very long years. Therefore, the rate of the tax refund should also be increased. Here, many times, it came to mind why families do not have children. This is a question that's been coming back for decades. I'm sure I can see two areas where the government could intervene, a tangible demographic outcome of the intervention, but for some reason they're not doing it. [[11.10]] It is quite clear that housing is one of the fronts. Think about it, you knew in advance when the Austrian and German labour markets were going to open, in the 2010s it was expected that when Hungarian labour force in Great Britain would be able to emigrate in the hopes of higher wages, they didn't raise any deterrents in order to thrive in the homeland. A tenant program, a public background that we put on the table under the name "Our Castle" program a very long time ago, would have helped this, because the social class that now, due to the lack of financial resources, is very difficult to put the necessary money on the table for itself, but has family-founding goals, plans, wishes to have children and children. Our real hidden resource, Hungary, is still the statistical measurement of the number of children that Hungarian ladies desire, and here we get values between two and three neighborhoods. The huge gap is between the number of children that are wanted and the number of children that are actually born, and we are successful if we reduce this gap. I claim that a rent-apartment program, where, under certain conditions, rent-apartment can be purchased after a few years, even at the cost of having children or starting a family, would have a very serious demographic impact, but it would certainly slow down trends in forced emigration. This should therefore be considered because there would also be money in the budget for this. And the other area is clearly the pay issue, so besides housing, the lack of material means the other typically marked cause. I know there are a lot of other factors that can make childbearing go away, but you can't miss the wage strategy that this government is following. Typically, he has allowed those seeking higher wages to emigrate, have no resistance, and is bringing ever greater numbers of migrant workers who take the same jobs or other jobs for lower wages, but they also force those here to accept worse working conditions and lower wages. And by the way, our former wage union concept would also be a solution to the pension issue, but it could also provide solutions to a number of demographic issues. For example, those who now promise a pension increase of one and a half to two times are lying, whether on the pro-government side or on the opposition side, if I have heard that, I always note that this is a lie, that the system cannot produce it. In one case, pensions can be substantially increased: if, after higher salaries, the total amount in the register increases from higher social and contribution payments, because demographic conditions are obviously decades of process change, and we do not see much success projects in this area. Higher salaries are, therefore, the ones which, by the way, lead to the achievement of demographic targets, which are also linked to housing issues, but we see that there are three areas where this government could intervene, and if it started at least one of them, this would be a tangible impression of demographic data. One is that there are a lot of multi-company companies here. Do they provide a higher average salary than, say, in the MKKV sector? At the moment, yes, and I think that this should be welcomed, not punished, although non-refundable grants, the HUF 200-300 billion is a completely pointless mass, but if there is one, why not open it to Hungarian micro-, small- and medium-sized enterprises? If, on the other hand, multi-company companies are able to make a slightly higher salary, their willingness to pay taxes is at least shabby, so let's compare it, Mr. Secretary of State, let's say, with the pay-in line, so you see that corporate tax is a small percentage compared to what, say, families pay in the form of VAT, if the willingness to pay taxes is impaired, at least the strategic contracts could be modified in a spirit of starting a slow pay-setting process up to the level permitted by productivity. You should aim for normal wages in a normal country for normal work, shouldn't you? And I see that the community of Jobbik-Conservatives has put the concept of this on the table. There would be three possibilities for intervention, but we do not see the government wanting to renegotiate these contracts with the multinationals, but we should and could; once again, not pushing anyone away from the market, but one of the pillars of the predictable conditions here is that the labour force can manage safely in its homeland, without it no one can achieve economic prosperity. Another option is the sector of already mentioned micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Here, on the one hand, frozen EU resources should be placed in the microwave, released quickly, brought home and used, because this would require a completely different economic philosophy and political behaviour on the part of the government, and could be channeled into a fund from which wage development support can be provided to Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Cohesion funds are also suitable for this and, moreover, the above-mentioned grants are also open to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. But there is a third area where no one has to wait for, and this is the public sector. In the public sector, starting to raise wages to a fair level, it pays in all respects, and it is able to draw up the competition sector, as the competition sector has started to draw the public sector in certain sectors. What we see is that if these three intervention options or just one or two of them help us to thrive in the homeland, then we can be much more rational than family support, and we see that much more families will get and we can slow down demographic deep flight, or if we do something wonderful, we can stop them after a while. It would make no sense to set a smaller target in the Hungarian Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
u2023-05-04-36	I welcome my fellow Members, and at the same time ask if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] As no one has applied, the general debate is closed, and I give the floor to Secretary General Bence Tuzson in a 30-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2023-05-04-37	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, We have seen a very extensive debate and how this bill can get us to almost everything, obviously families will take over the country as a whole, so everything can be discussed on the subject. Obviously, I don't want to react to everything because it would be very long, and we would also stretch the 30-minute timeframe. There are issues in which we disagree, not with regard to the system of family support nor with regard to its effectiveness, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is a family support system in place in Hungary that needs to be seen in its complexity, so it is not certain that we will see the impact of this family support system on society as a whole, on demographic issues and on the welfare of families. This is made up of a lot of small elements, and the overall impact of the small elements is what affects the overall life of families. There are also measures in this regard. Allow me to give you one. In Hungary, the highest rate of support for families in Europe is 4.5 percent, far above what is anywhere in Europe. Of course, we could talk about and talk about what else we can do to support families. It is also worth talking about, because the government is committed to further developing such a support system, and recently the Hungarian government and the Hungarian Parliament have granted tax exemptions for women under the age of 30, so this is also an important change in the past period, which further helps families to operate. In any case, I would also like to say that here we have a little change to our current legislation, the current bill, which lies on the table, that we have the big, comprehensive goals, and, along with the big, comprehensive goals, the proposals that greatly help these comprehensive goals, but we always have to do the so-called small work, because it usually happens that if we set big goals but the small work is not done behind it, then the big goals will also be lost. The primary objective of this current bill is to do this very small work, so to take measures to help the laws, laws and regulations that have been created before, which help the lives of families. That is why we are trying to focus here on the area of administrative facilitation, and through this we are trying to help families. The desire to have children and the willingness to have children are obviously part of making serious progress in this area, too, what we have done in the past, but we must continue on this path. In short, I would just like to say to my fellow Member, Zsolt Gréczy, that it is obviously difficult and difficult to do, and that the impossible mission is probably the same as trying to demonstrate that the Gyurcsány government has done something or has done more for families than has passed since then. So I appreciate you trying to do this job, but it's an impossible mission, and I'm not sure we should try this overall. [[Zsolt Gréczy: More children were born, that's the fact!]] [[11.20]] I would like to say to Mrs Zita Gurmai about her contribution, she spoke about a lot in this comment, let me talk about only one issue here, which is a very important issue: the change in the IT systems and the IT world. He raised this in his comment. It is true, however, that many points of suggestion are related to this. It's always a process. If we went back to such developments in the public administration, there would be a lot to talk about, but this has ever started with these developments starting in small steps by sector, and eventually they come together in a unified system, observing the history of informatics. We are in this world, and this must be constantly developed, monitored, and the point is that these records should be compatible with each other so that, by the way, we can also comply with the rules of privacy, data protection, standards, international requirements and GDPR rules. So it's not an easy task, by the way. The previous Hungarian constitutional practice must also be taken into account, but it is also necessary to address what is already beyond and what is a different challenge in the world. The decisions of the time were based primarily on challenges of a non-IT nature. It's a difficult and long question. And indeed, there is now progress in this bill. It should also be pointed out that coordination of different types of systems costs money. Here, let us say, it is not a very significant amount of money in this case, but these funds are also about coordinating IT systems. Thus, to be easily transferred from one register to another, it also needs the link between the two registers; other databases, on another basis, developed in other systems, must be connected in some form. We are moving along this path, and I hope that the idea, which is another concept for the government, is the idea of digital citizenship, which means that we can also manage a significant part of our affairs in the digital space, so we will simplify the administrative capacity of citizens, which, of course, is much more than that, obviously, can be discussed in a separate proposal, but it will help to ensure that all the goals that are being formulated here and will be formulated in our other proposals will be best and most widespread. This applies, of course, to the customer gate. Demographic issues are not something I would like to discuss separately, which we have already discussed. All these steps are designed to help families and childbearing. I think that I, as a family father of five, am also committed to this, that this should be seen in the complexity of our entire support system. I note, by the way, that Mr Róbert Dudás, who is not here now, is that the price cap is good and, by the way, he has fulfilled his expectations. As regards certification of student status, I would just like to mention to my fellow Member, Mr President, that in cases where there is no need to ask, even if there is doubt about student law, it is possible to continue to ask the Education Office to check these data or the declaration, so it is still possible to do so. [[For the conductor?]] The transport service provider also has the possibility, but also the authority has the possibility, so in any case this is true. These were, I think, the more important questions that were worth responding to here in this short answer. I would like to ask you, in view of the fact that this bill contains only elements that help families to support this bill, and that Parliament accepts it as widely as possible in this respect. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-04-38	I would like to inform my fellow Members that it is possible to present the amendments by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the draft law on professional service law and on the amendment of certain laws relating to registrations until closure. Government referral T/3757. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, in a 30-minute time frame. Mr. Secretary of State has indicated that you are going to make the presentation about the pulpit. [[Bence Rétvári enters the speaker's stand.]] I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2023-05-04-39	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As a collector's rule, the bill proposes to amend certain laws relating to professional service law and to registers on the following priority topics. On the one hand, the aim of the bill is to amend the EU Blue Card rules in order to comply with EU legal standards. The EU Blue Card is a residence permit which entitles its highly qualified holder to stay in the territory of a Member State and to work with a high level of qualifications. The transposition of the EU Blue Card Directive does not increase the risk of migration, but failure to transpose it may lead to the opening of infringement procedures. With regard to the amendment of the Alien Police Act, the establishment of a foreign police bail institution should be highlighted. The essence of this is that the Alien Police Authority may terminate the detention of aliens even if, on the basis of the prior assessment of the authority, the foreign availability can be ensured through the payment of bail in the proceedings. This therefore does not jeopardise the implementation of the deportation. It is important to stress that, in the event of a bail order, a compulsory place of residence for the foreigner is designated. The foreigner himself cannot apply for the release of bail, the conditions and possible application of the bail shall be ex officio examined by the foreign police authority and applied if the foreigner, at the request of the authority, declares that he undertakes to make the bail. The amendments to the bill concerning certain registers, the amendments to the domestic data reporting provisions, are essentially aimed at simplifying the current reporting practice and making it more transparent. The amendment will lead to the elimination of group, i.e. regular reporting. In these cases, according to current practice, at the client's request, an official decision will be taken and the data will then be provided on a regular basis without further official decision and without verification. The amendment changes this in so far as all group reporting to a non-State body in the future will require an official decision, so that the data will not automatically be issued on a regular basis, in the light of a single decision by an authority. The new solution creates a clearer legal situation and facilitates the enforcement of data protection rules and makes monitoring simpler. The amendments will also allow the district office to provide information on the data content, validity and address of the citizen's identity card on the basis of the data available in the professional systems for the purpose of checking them and identifying the person concerned. From 1 January 2023, the driver of the vehicle shall not be obliged to carry the driving licence. In order to establish and make arrangements for the registration of a public area supervisor, it is necessary to know the natural identity data of the driver or candidate for driver and the type, document identification mark, issue, period of validity, category, replacement, withdrawal or withdrawal of the licence. The amendment allows those data to be retrieved from the road transport register with regard to public area surveillance. LXVI of 1992 on the register of citizens' personal data and address. Act III on Social Administration and Social Benefits 1993 The amendment of the Act is justified by the clarification of the rule concerning the designation of the legal person responsible for the processing of data necessary for the implementation of the "Gondosóra" programme in Hungary's recovery and resilience plan, a digitalisation programme for the safety and protection of people with limited capacity for self-sufficiency. [[11.30]] The provisions of the bill on public employment simplify the registration of public workers' participation in labour market services by district offices, thus making measurement and traceability more effective. The amendment also simplifies the establishment and functioning of Start social cooperatives. Its positive effect, by easing the terms of the loan agreement, is that more acquired assets can be transferred to social cooperatives under public supervision and that, by easing the conditions, it will also make it easier to set up social cooperatives. The bill provides for a number of amendments concerning the professional staff of law enforcement bodies. One of these amendments is about a narrow extension of the objectives of the preliminary opinion procedure. The preliminary opinion procedure shall mean the consultation of and the proposal drawn up on the basis of the basic register of persons and the documents on which it is based. The preliminary opinion procedure is currently possible in two cases, thus prior to the appointment of a leader and the out-of-ranking promotion. The amendment of the relevant laws does not create a new legal institution; it only expands the use of the existing options, with two legal aspects: one before the award, plaque, memorial paper, and one prior to the appointment to a service in the management class of the ministry or body managed by the Minister. The amendment also complements the scope of their right to initiate the preliminary opinion procedure, as in the case of management, it is appropriate to provide the employer's head of the body of control with the possibility of initiating the initiative. A further amendment is related to the refitness test that may be carried out among the members of the professional staff, in which it may be identified by a suitable change of category, and to the category in which the person may continue to be used according to his/her health, psychic or physical condition. Therefore, on the basis of this qualification, the inability of the data subject to professional service does not arise, nor can he continue to be employed in the category of competence belonging to the post of duty which he holds. In this case, the law enforcement body shall arrange for a member of the professional staff to be assigned to this new category of competence. The bill also serves the main purpose of maintaining the individual's legal relationship. The bill brings to a legal level the provision for determining the level of professional remuneration for positions in the management class, which is currently governed by the same content but by a ministerial decree. The bill also includes amendments to the liability for damages in order to ensure that the Hst. i.e. the liability of workers covered by the law on the service relationship of professional staff of law enforcement bodies should be regulated in accordance with the provisions on professional staff and administrative staff. Shh. with regard to parental leave, the head of the law enforcement body shall be entitled to decide, when assessing the application for parental leave, to postpone the requested date, which shall justify his decision to defer and at the same time communicate the date of issue proposed by the employer. It is necessary to lay down, as a guarantee rule, a provision relating to the duration of the deferral under which the employer will be entitled to defer parental leave for a maximum of 60 days from the date specified in the application. In the same way as in the case of law enforcement administrative staff, Hst. It is necessary to lay down by means of legislation applicable to professional staff covered by the scope of this Regulation and to lay down that, during the period of parental leave, the legal status of an administrative officer of the law cannot be terminated by exemption. Further amendments were made to the Hst. Annex 12, which includes the salary, lower and upper limits of the administrative staff of the law enforcement authorities. Shh. It also provides that the basic salary of the law enforcement administrative staff must reach the guaranteed minimum wage and that the ceiling for its classification should not exceed the threshold for HSt. The maximum value determined in accordance with Annex 12. The minimum salary level for law enforcement administrative staff is currently HUF 273 thousand, so the ceiling is below the amount set by the increase of the guaranteed minimum wage in 2023. As a result of the above-mentioned modification of the pay table, a temporary provision provides for the exclusion of a reduction in salary. I trust that with this brief presentation you have been able to highlight that the measures and provisions contained in the bill aim to strengthen the security of citizens, to accelerate individual procedures, to strengthen uniform case-law, to maintain operational capacity, so that their implementation serves the right purposes. I am convinced that the adoption of the bill would ensure that these objectives are properly achieved. In view of this, I would therefore ask you to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-04-40	After Mr. Secretary's exposé, the keynote speakers will be held, and they will be opened by Mr.Sándor Fazekas, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. I'll give you the floor in a 15-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2023-05-04-41	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Overall, the bill before us is a clear proposal. Despite the fact that it opens relatively many laws, it deals in depth with only a few priority topics. I would do no differently in the general debate, but I would like to point out a few provisions. The law on the professional service of law enforcement is Shst. one of the pieces of legislation that receives a more detailed update as proposed. First of all, I would like to mention the salary increase of workers in the law enforcement sector and the adjustment of the pay table for administrative staff's salaries to the guaranteed minimum wage. These minor but important changes also indicate the intention of the Ministry of the Interior to ensure a decent wage in all the professions under its responsibility. We are talking about progress with small steps, but we still have the will, despite the difficult economic and budgetary environment we have now. Shh. I would like to mention the extension of the case of the preliminary opinion procedure, which was specifically addressed by the rapporteur. The procedure can now be carried out prior to the award of medals and the appointment of a manager. I think it's a reasonable change. It should also be mentioned to make the rules for granting the Jubilee Prize more realistic, to standardise the rules on liability for damages, to make the arrangements for parental leave more flexible by providing adequate guarantees; and also to create the possibility of a lower position following a refitness test, in order to maintain the relationship between the person concerned under changed health, psychic or physical circumstances where there is no question of incompetence to the service. It's a fair solution. These are all suggestions for Hst. provide answers to problems encountered in the everyday application of its rules. I would like to turn to another important area of the bill we are discussing: the foreign police. It always leads far when we discuss such matters; it is enough to look back only for the last few weeks. In the Committee on Defence and Police, we voted on the draft regulation on migration reform of the European Union since 2015 in a lengthy debate where my fellow Members expressed a wide variety of opinions. [[11.40]] Pope Ferenc's visit to Hungary last week was also able to wake up the waves of social debate on illegal migration. However, there was much less to hear about the fact that near the Hungarian border, in the Hungarian city of Horgos, Serbia, there was another shooting a few days ago. Armed migrant gangs collided in the settlement while the people there were waiting for their children from school. These are almost war conditions near the Hungarian border. In Hungary, under the migratory pressure on Europe, order and security can only be guaranteed if there are as few open questions on the subject as possible and the Hungarian bodies concerned act with care and caution, but decisively. The Ministry of Interior therefore also carries out legislative work with responsibility. The proposal before us will create an institution for foreign police bail by amending the law on the entry and residence of third-country nationals. This provides for the possibility of triggering detention in cases where the availability of a foreign person can be adequately ensured without being detained. The use of the bail instrument is examined and offered to the foreigner by the foreign police authority. The most relevant rules of application are introduced by the proposal at a legislative level, but the competent minister is also authorised to establish detailed rules of procedure. Procedural simplifications are also included in the proposal. These include provisions on the simplification of accommodation reporting and amendments to reduce the burden on the tax authority, which allow for easier closure of procedures for the reimbursement of the amount of asylum benefits and services wrongly taken, as well as minor changes to the registers which provide easier access to the contact details of representatives authorised by foreigners to authorities acting in foreign law enforcement cases and, on the other hand, the introduction of automatic signals in the event of the expiry of certain permits or documents, thereby increasing efficiency in the administrative tasks of the authorities. It is also important to mention the amendment of EU rules on the EU Blue Card, which call for harmonisation measures at home. In autumn 2021, the European Parliament adopted a directive simplifying the acquisition of an EU Blue Card, which also provides for a residence and work permit for third-country workers with higher skills. In the future, a job offer for a shorter period of time will require the EU Blue Card, starting the procedure for obtaining health insurance for work, and even without a degree, but even if there is a proven professional experience. The EU legislators hope that, thanks to the amendments, Europe can move forward in the international competition for highly qualified or specialized workers. The number of third-country nationals working here with an EU Blue Card is particularly low in Hungary. Nevertheless, we welcome all EU initiatives that encourage the legal acquisition of residence and residence permits, which provide the country of destination with the possibility of making decisions, rather than triggering illegal migration as intended or as a side effect. Moving on, I would like to mention, among the topics of the proposal before us, some amendments relating to the management of registers and the provision of data. Civil governments have always had an explicit objective of cutting red tape; technological developments also allow us to make our various procedures simpler and more efficient. The package of proposals we are discussing aims, in particular, to reduce the workload of the procedure for official registers, but this can also bring tangible results on the side of citizens through efficiency gains. I have already mentioned a few examples of the alien police amendments, but the proposal also includes a number of other facilitations related to the management of registers. For example, the registration of public workers' participation in labour market services by district offices will be simplified and more realistic by the proposal to define the duration of services. In order to ensure more efficient transport and the order of public spaces, the public area inspection body is also given access to certain data contained in the licences, since 1 January this year drivers are not obliged to carry their driving licence. Statistical data provided by the Central Statistical Office to non-State actors will be clarified. Groups of general and regular and individual data rings requests will be isolated, thus providing an opportunity to develop and introduce service models that are better suited to changing, real needs. I would no longer consider minor amendments of a legal nature; it is natural that such adjustments should be made in such a proposal. I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of the bill, and if they have any positive comments on the amendments to the legislation here, they would also like to submit amendments so that we can have a meaningful discussion at further stages of debate. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-04-42	Zsolt Gréczy, lead speaker of the Democratic Coalition Group. There you go. I'll give you the floor.
u2023-05-04-43	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear House, I would like to comment briefly on some of the elements of the legislative package. With regard to the EU Blue Card, I believe that this is an important legislative harmonisation step with the European Union. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that in recent years Hungary has had an interest in finding people who are coming to Hungary, even as refugees, who have the knowledge, the skills and the ability to help Hungary to fill a shortage profession that we desperately need, engineers, doctors, IT professionals and many others. They can be of great help to Hungary even if they are not Hungarian citizens. This should have been taken into account even when refugees were only being deterred from the country by the government's persecution campaign. It would have been worth seeing at the time, as many Western European countries have used this opportunity; for example, Germany has launched a specific action to seek out from many, many refugees who are coming to them, who can help them immediately with work, thus helping them to integrate, and in some areas where there is a shortage of workers, this has worked effectively, so I think that it is also in Hungary's interest. I am pleased that this is a step forward in the context of such an EU harmonisation procedure. I think it is very important in the bill to be aware that the protection of personal data is in any event safe. LXVI of 1992 on the register of citizens' personal data and address. Article 11 Paragraph (1) (j) of paragraph 1 shall expire on the basis of the amendment; according to the provision concerned, the register shall contain an indication of the regular reporting of the data of the citizen. The current amendment removes this from the law, so that the citizen will no longer be able to obtain information about the regular transfer or use of the data contained in the register. This should also be taken into account by the legislator. [[11.50]] I would like to say a few sentences about bail when amending the rules on alien law enforcement. I think that this too is obviously a task of EU harmonisation for the Hungarian government. Obviously, with due caution and due regard for the security of the country, this issue must be addressed in particular, and it is also very important that it should not be a source of budgetary revenue in the first place, but that it should be a flexible application of legislation, also an integrative option that eliminates the incompetents from the country, but those who really need help can obtain adequate protection. I would also like to make a few comments on the fact that the Democratic Coalition considers that this issue remains under-regulated after the amendment. It is not clear from the regulation how the National Defence Service can consider data from what source in the drafting of the opinion, and it would be justified to lay down basic procedural rules by law. It may also seem a little excessive that, prior to the donation of the prize, plaque, the National Defence Service needs to be examined. I'm not sure it's necessarily important, but it's really a matter of detail. As far as salaries are concerned, it is, of course, possible that a person loses his ability to perform a particular task for such a reason. In this case, we consider it very important that, if this loss of ability is not done on the basis of omission or violation of the law, so it is not a matter of trust, but, let us say, a matter of health or psychicity, then we think that it is important in the basic salary that it does not lead to a reduction in salaries, so that it may be worthwhile to tolerate these persons who have sworn to serve the country in any way in the same category. The termination of the payments will result in the right of the employer to determine a higher salary for the persons in the current step 1-6. I think it's also a free decision. Based on impact assessment data, this is likely to be necessary for increasing the salary of health professionals in order to maintain the appropriate rates. Although I might add, the salaries of only four hundred thousand forints, registered here, do not beat the sky, but, of course, it would also be important to make progress sooner or later. With the amending rules, the Democratic Coalition will represent its position. We maintain our concerns about the protection of personal data, and we do not support the bill. Thank you very much.
u2023-05-04-44	The next is the lead speaker of the KDNP Group, Mr István Hollik. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2023-05-04-45	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Mr. Deputy Minister. Fellow Members! Indeed, we have a diverse and wide-ranging package of proposals to amend certain laws relating to professional service law and to registers. Since both the Deputy Minister and my fellow Member have described in detail the substance of some of the elements of the bill, I would like to briefly highlight only three. On the one hand, we see that the proposal contains on several points the tasks and amendments arising from the legislative harmonisation clause on the EU Blue Card. Here, I think it is important to underline that this can really help Hungary, the Hungarian labour market, without otherwise creating any migration risk. We got there after 2010 despite the fact that there is an energy crisis and there has been a coronal virus epidemic, that there is a shortage of labour in Hungary today in certain areas, so it can really help to make the rules on the Blue Card more effective and put it into the Hungarian legal system, and I stress once again that this does not pose a migration risk. The second part, which I would like to draw attention to, and what we consider important for our part, is the change in group reporting. Today, when we live in the age of big data, we can see that personal data alone has an incredible value. Our personal data, for example, makes community platforms the world's largest value companies, so it is not difficult to see that personal data today has an incredible value, and for this change, the state, as the largest and most important controller of personal data, needs to adapt and maintain personal data. Therefore, although it seems technical, I consider the change in group reporting to be a very important change, which in fact means the protection of personal data by stating that all group reporting to a non-State body in the future requires a decision by authority, so that data are not automatically issued on a regular basis but only individually. I think this is an important amendment and it means protecting personal data. And the third one, which I would like to point out, Mr Deputy Minister, has also mentioned that there is a change that requires a legislative amendment to the Caretaker's programme, which we also support. I think that the Care Watch programme is an incredibly innovative government measure and it is a programme that greatly enhances the sense of security for the elderly and otherwise provides real health assistance. We therefore support any legislative amendments that are designed to enable this Caretaker's programme to start and work well. However, not only this part, but the entire package of proposals is supported by KDNP for its part. I would ask my fellow opposition Members to do the same. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-04-46	The lead speaker of our country's group, Novák Előd. Here you go.
u2023-05-04-47	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Parliament, The 60-page bill on the amendment of certain laws relating to professional service law and registrations also regulates issues which are not thanked for, and are therefore opaque. For example, it is not clear from the title of the bill that the EU Blue Card Directive would be implemented by this legislation. As far as the increase in salaries for law enforcement administrative staff is concerned, using the words of the detailed explanation, it actually means resolving the following unpleasant contradiction. The salary table's lowest step is currently 273,000 forints, so the ceiling is below the guaranteed minimum wage. It's a shame! But the scariest thing is the bill's 10. §2 of the Act, which would introduce a list of pensioners for some reason. The law on the registration of the personal data and address of citizens would be supplemented by the fact that the body managing the register provides the legal person designated by the government for the implementation of the digitalisation programme in Hungary's recovery and resilience plan for the purpose of ensuring the security and protection of life of people with limited capacity for self-sufficiency, with the natural identity data and valid address data of persons of Hungarian nationality who complete their 65th year by 31 December following the reference year, until 15 December each year of the programme. [[12.00]] This must therefore be presented, which I think is incomprehensible, so no matter how we read this provision suggesting a noble purpose, although in itself it raises a question as to why the safety and protection of people with limited capacity for self-sufficiency should be achieved with a digitalization programme, so to speak, in virtual space, but the main question here is that the result of this provision is that a list of pensioners would be made. Why? So, say, maybe it's Gábor Kubatov's expectation? Why are pensioners included in the list by regulating the salad law? I would certainly like a clear answer to that, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2023-05-04-48	I would like to ask my fellow Members if they still wish to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. On behalf of the rapporteur, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári has the opportunity to respond to what was said in the debate within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2023-05-04-49	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Dear House, Thank you all very much for your comments. It also felt from the comments, from the overwhelming majority of the comments, that pretty much everyone would agree. I also believe that this can serve both the safety of Hungary and the good functioning of the state. What is always important to say here in relation to the Blue Card, as these concepts are a little mixed, that it is very important to clearly distinguish between the illegal and the legal part of migration, Hungary has always said that anyone who wants to come to Hungary legally can do so within the legal framework. For those who are real refugees, who arrive from Ukraine, Hungary is open to them. We have a million examples of this, and we have proof that we have done so. However, anyone who would come illegally, who would not even cooperate to say his name when he was born, should show up an I.D. and do so knowingly, since he brings a mobile phone with him, but his passport is no longer available by the time he arrives in Europe, well, in the case of those, the assessment is completely different. Such mass illegal migration is rejected, but we will assess everyone's fair, legitimate needs and requests, and, of course, if they comply with the legal conditions, they may be granted permission. But if we expect all Hungarians to comply with the laws all their life from birth, then obviously everyone else who comes from another country is expected to be legal, not illegally arriving on the green border, because then they probably wouldn't comply with the legislation in any other area. You were talking about personal data protection, Congressman. This is indeed an important question in our view. We would like to provide every guarantee that we obviously want to ensure that any data that the state manages is even safer than any data that it has handled anywhere, in an Internet bank or anywhere else. We're trying to protect these databases. Thank God there hasn't been a bigger problem in recent years, but obviously, as more and more electronics are being used, it is also important that databases communicate better at the same time, so these data can be retrieved. An important part of this is that from the beginning of this year no one has to carry a driver's license. It is important that these amenities are also ensured by the State and, of course, it protects public databases from any kind of data breach or other. There's multiple guarantees for that, so we're looking at an important direction here. The guarantee of wages, the guarantee of wage increases and the exclusion of the possibility of wage cuts are also part of this proposal. Indeed, the minimum wage has increased greatly, including by 20 percent a year. Unfortunately, we see that this is necessary, because there is a very high level of sanctioning inflation both in Hungary and in other countries. So it is important that this increase in wages, minimum wage increases, average wage increases are recorded elsewhere. With regard to due diligence, honourable Member, this is obviously a whole new kind of public service for the state to carry it on its arm, hanging it around its neck, as it is possible to fix this device in several places, which is not even a clock, and not only an alarm button, but a speech with a dispatcher in the call center, although it is certainly possible to say this in a more Hungarian way, so the possibility of contacting the assisting colleague there, and obviously the colleague there, will inform the relative whom the elderly person gave. It's a voluntary opportunity; so whoever wants to join him, who doesn't want to join him. Obviously, living in a household with a child or other younger relatives is less typical for those living alone, but many of the elderly live alone, it can give them security. But I also met a man and wife living together, both of whom were in good shape, but they still demanded it. We encourage as many as possible to claim this, because anyone can slip in the garden, in the bathroom, and the rest, and if they have this watch, then help can be called. But obviously, in order to be able to call for help, where this old man lives, who his acquaintance is, usually his child, who needs to be called in the event of an emergency, these data must obviously be handled by this telephone station, so that he can provide help. But I must stress, it's voluntary. Whoever joins him joins, who doesn't join, doesn't join. His consent, he knew, against his will, would not keep his phone number, his name, or his address, nothing else, so it's double safe, even from the point of view of physical security, from the point of view of data security. This is precisely why we are legislating these proposals to give everyone the highest degree of warranty in their personal data, to obtain legal assurance that they use their data only specifically for the purposes for which they provide it. But this obviously includes a certain possibility of contact, since the person initiates the call, the conversation there and the data management related to it. Thank you again for your comments, because there may even be someone in opposition benches who supports this. But even if you do not support the entire bill in the final vote, with the overwhelming majority of it, I feel that everyone has agreed and everyone is in favour. There may be one or two points that make it impossible for someone from the opposition to suggest this, but I think it regulates a wide range of areas and contains progress in all of them. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2023-05-04-50	I would like to inform my fellow Members that it is possible to present the amendments by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the bill amending the laws concerning certain economic, asset management and postal matters will follow until closure. Government referral T/3778. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. On behalf of the rapporteur, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy in a 30-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2023-05-04-51	Thank you, Madam President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/3778 amending the laws concerning certain economic, asset management and postal matters The purpose of the bill is to amend certain laws falling within the remit of the Minister for Economic Development and concerning its responsibilities. The bill before you updates or supplements certain provisions of the law on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings. Under the previous legislation, the body leading the list of liquidators was a separate department of the Prime Minister's Government Office designated to assist the ministry without a wallet in charge of managing the national assets, but in the current legislative context, the Supervisory Authority for Regulated Activities as an independent regulatory body carries out tasks related to the exercise and regulation of certain winding-up activities and of official supervision and control of the winding-up system. In view of the change in the organisation, it was justified that, in the event of the liquidation of a property or property which could be found to have been affected by environmental damage or environmental burden, the Minister responsible for the supervision of state assets would no longer have to obtain the consent of the President of the Supervisory Authority for Regulated Activities prior to the sale. The bill, bearing in mind the social interest in carrying out winding-up proceedings as soon as possible, contains a provision in the event that the winding-up takes place as a result of the cancellation of the winding-up proceedings from the list of liquidators. At that time, the court, without waiting for the end of any settlement dispute with the exonerated superintendent, must appoint another liquidator to ensure that the company in liquidation does not remain unclaimed and that there is a person who makes the necessary decisions in the company's life. [[12.10]] The purpose of the bill is to create the conditions for effective and high-quality insolvency expert work by ensuring a fair settlement of the liquidation remuneration. There is an increase in the percentage of the liquidation fee and in the percentage of the charge for the effective liquidation activity. The bill also concerns the payment of creditors, thereby providing cover for the increased liquidation fees. In response to the needs in practice, the proposal allows for consistent application of the provisions of the recently introduced liquidation of criminal assets. Dear House, The amendment of the Law on State Property is a minor amendment of the National Land Management Centre and the Hungarian National Property Management Ltd. and the Resurrection Property Benefit Zrt. clarify the designation of the holder of ownership rights in respect of property under the exercise of common ownership rights. In view of the use of the assets transferred by the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund as laid down by law, the bill repeals the specific rules on the management of this property. The increased digital literacy of the population and the changed consumer habits that occurred during the epidemiological period and remained after the end of the emergency required a review of the Postal Services Act. On the basis of the review, for postal packages within universal postal services, the weight limit of up to 20 kilograms is reduced to 10 kilograms and the provisions on the availability of standard contractual clauses are modernised. The purpose of the amendment is to emphasise the provisions for the establishment of safe deposit points, to adapt them to consumer habits, and to grant the necessary authorisation for the establishment of regulation requiring the standardisation of packages machines with different functionality and technical design. Dear Parliament, The bill also contains provisions on amendments to the law on the reduction of smoking by minors and on the retail trade in tobacco products. The subject of data use covered by the proposal is currently regulated at regulation level, while at the same time ensuring the security of data protection, collection and use to the statutory level. One of the cornerstones of the closed system of tobacco trade is the accurate knowledge of the size of the market, the main means of which is the provision of continuous traffic data on tobacco wholesalers and tobacco sellers, the registration of products which they place on the market in Hungary and the provision of information on retail trade in these products. The Supervisory Authority for Regulated Activities shall keep a public record of all these data. Dear Parliament, The bill also contains provisions on the use of traffic data provided by tobacco retailers. These traffic data support the achievement of a number of policy objectives. From a health point of view, significant information about the smoking society is coming and it can guide prevention measures. Accurate data on the tobacco product market can provide conclusions and trends on the illegal market, providing a sound basis for planning public finances' excise and VAT revenues. On this basis, the SZTFH will also use it for its own analysis purposes and hand it over to the National Tax and Customs Office for risk analysis and crime prevention purposes. In order to standardise the responsibilities of the Minister responsible for the supervision of state assets so far, in order to ensure the transfer of tobacco product retail rights and the conclusion of concession contracts, the Minister appointed to carry out those tasks is also to be taken over by the Government's decree. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill also contains a number of provisions relating to the transfer of state wealth to various ecclesiastical, civil and other beneficiaries. In view of their contribution to public, primarily social, health and cultural tasks, beneficiaries of asset relief receive free ownership of state-owned real estate and movable property. The terms and conditions of the transfer are laid down in the regulations and regulations on the transfer, in several cases by the registration of an indefinite disposal ban in respect of the properties to be transferred to the Hungarian State in order to ensure the long-term performance of the task. Dear House, In the context of the rapid development of digitalisation, e-signatures are of increasing importance even when contracts are concluded on a mass basis in everyday life. In order to maximise the benefits of including legal declarations in electronic private documents, it is also necessary that legislation provides a clear legal basis for this contractual practice. With this aim in mind, the proposal before you defines the concept of electronic private documents, which are in writing in accordance with the civil code containing the basic rules of civil law, by amending the e-administration law. In order to make the regulation as widely applicable as possible, but also to provide sufficient security guarantees, the amendment requires enhanced electronic signatures and the use of a time stamp to identify the date under the eIDAS Regulation containing the relevant EU standards for the certification of electronic private documents. The proposal provides a long-term legal background for contract practice developed by the financial sector, by recognising as a fully evident electronic private document a declaration made by a client identified by organisations in this sector, even if it was signed only by the party with simple electronic signature. Dear House, In addition to the proposals for amendments which have been presented in detail so far, the bill also proposes amendments to two other laws, which are small and technical. On this basis, I ask this House that the T/3778. To discuss and support the regulatory intention set out therein. Thank you for your attention, Madam President, for this opportunity. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2023-05-04-52	After Mr. State Secretary's exposé, the speech will be given by the keynote speaker. In this context, I would like first to address Mr Attila Barcza, who is the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2023-05-04-53	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the bill on the table of this House is to amend the laws concerning certain economic, wealth management and postal matters, as we have already heard from the rapporteur in the Expo, the amendment of other laws which are part of the Minister for Economic Development's regulatory function and which assist in the application of the law on state wealth management and management legislation. The proposal includes amendments to no less than 15 laws, some of which I would like to highlight and briefly explain in my speech by the lead speaker. [[12.20]] On the basis of practical experience, the submission proposes to amend the law on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings, according to which, if the winding-up proceedings are made on the grounds of cancellation from the list of liquidators, the court shall, at the same time as the judgment of the winding-up order, appoint a different Liquidator and, in that case, the liquidator may appeal against the charge due to him and the provision establishing the reimbursement. The amendment will help to increase the interest of administrators and insolvency administrators in the effective conduct of proceedings and to create an essential condition for effective and high-quality insolvency expert work. On the basis of the proposal, the fee for the administrator, the interim administrator and the liquidator will be increased. The liquidation fee is set at a minimum of HUF 500 thousand plus VAT; in the simplified winding-up procedure, the guaranteed fee is increased to a minimum of HUF 350 thousand plus VAT. An important innovation is that in the case of the debtor's activities during liquidation, 4 percent of the resulting income can be taken as a fee instead of 2 percent of the resulting income. Even if the winding-up proceedings were preceded by unsuccessful bankruptcy proceedings, the insolvency administrator would still be entitled to the general fee advance. Dear House, With regard to the amendment of the Postal Services Act, the increase in the digital maturity of the population, the widespread use of electronic information collection and the epidemic period caused by Covid-19 have significantly changed consumer habits, which justified and justified the revision of the regulations on postal services in order to talk about these problems and new directions. In view of the above, the proposal sets a reduction in the weight limit of 20 kilograms for postal packages within universal postal services to 10 kilograms, in line with EU legislation. The appropriate and available replacement product is available in the postal product portfolio. In accordance with the provisions of both the Civil Code and the Consumer Protection Act on general contract terms, the proposal includes the modernisation of the provisions on the availability of standard contract terms and the requirement for their availability in electronic form. At the same time, the availability of tariffs for the most frequently used postal services by the population at all postal service locations in printed form remains mandatory for all postal operators. The proposal also empowers the establishment of regulation to standardise currently different functionality and technical design of luggage vending machines, so that they are uniform. Dear Parliament, The purpose of the draft law is to lay down provisions relating to compliance with the specific registration and reporting requirements for persons carrying out tobacco retail activities in the legislation on the control of smoking of minors and the retail trade of tobacco products. On the basis of the draft law, the Supervisory Authority for Regulated Activities shall keep an official record of manufacturers, wholesalers and importers of tobacco products sold by retailers and first placed on the market in Hungary. In order to ensure uniform compliance with the obligation to keep records and provide data and to ensure that the data generated can be used as accurately and widely as possible, the Authority shall also keep an official register of the products concerned by the reporting obligation. The registration of each product must be requested from the authority by the product registrars, of course before the start of domestic distribution. The data generated by the reporting of the retail activities of tobacco products are processed, analysed and provided for different purposes by the Authority. With a view to assessing market needs and promoting market purity, the volume of data generated by data reporting and data processing may be transferred by the authority to product registrars and the tobacco retail supplier on the basis of a contract. In order to analyse the risks related to excise duty and to prevent fiscal fraud, the traffic data of tobacco shops shall be transmitted regularly to the State tax and customs authorities in accordance with the Regulation on record keeping and reporting. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In conclusion, the bill before us contains forward-looking provisions concerning the laws concerning certain management, asset management and postal matters. That is why I call on my fellow Members to support this package of proposals, in the light of what has been said, like the Fidesz fraction. Thank you very much, Madam President, and thank you all for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2023-05-04-54	The next keynote speaker from the Democratic Coalition Group is Mr Zsolt Gréczy. Here you go.
u2023-05-04-55	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear House, The bill before us covers a number of areas, but I would like to focus on what is happening around the post office, as it has been in the middle of the debates in the last few days. What is happening is that when the Gyurcsány government closed a few post offices, Fidesz also spoke about bleeding out and destroying the countryside here in Parliament, holding a press conference and putting protests and resistance on the table, and now the many times this is happening in terms of postal closure. I think that this is definitely a warning and self-discovery moment. A kind of social consultation on what to do with the mail has been conducted, since such a discussion material has also been posted on the government portal. Of course, the government's position has not changed during the process of social consultation, as the legislation has been submitted to Parliament with unchanged content, and the legislative possibility will ensure that hundreds of metropolitan mail can be closed. Hang on: There are only 55 post offices left in Budapest. If there are 55 post offices left in a city of about 1.7 million, that's not much. Of course, it can be argued that digitalization and Covid and others, but in many places in the countryside it is not so simple that we have now joined digitalization. The post office was part of the local cultural life in a small town, it was part of the local culture, the local behavior. People used to go to the post office, talk, meet, discuss their common affairs. Now the government is shutting down another forum like this from the people. This will lead even more to the already depopulated villages that people will shut down even more and they will talk to each other less and less. In addition, this legislation also states that so far it is mandatory to maintain a post office for municipalities over 25,000 people. This is now changing, and this framework is being pushed to 30,000, which, I think, is also creating the same emergency. It is well known that last year, the Hungarian Post Office closed 336 post offices in 210 settlements. Originally, it was said that it was a temporary closure, but of course it was already known that if a post office is closed somewhere, there is no such thing as rebooting it in a year or two, because where will the person who hired you there and the people who hired you get used to it, or getting used to the fact that there is no post office. In addition, last week, newspapers were also withdrawn, newspaper services and the possibility of buying newspapers were excluded from the postal sector, which is also rather disappointing. [[12.30]] Some of the people, especially in small towns, even in the post office, bought the few newspapers that were brought down from newspapers, weekly newspapers, magazines, and now this kind of information is being taken away. The Democratic Coalition disagrees. The municipalities took 32 units from the closed mail. By the way, not only did the opposition but also Fidesz municipalities feel in some places that it is extremely unpleasant to close the post office, and that is why they initiated the attempt to save these offices, because the Fidesz representative or Fidesz mayor felt precisely that people, when a post office is closed in their city, would not see progress, but rather the degradation of the living conditions of their city. In 2022, according to KSH, the Hungarian Post had 1890 own-run offices. If the permanent office number of the Ministry is indeed 1600 [[Dr. János Fónagy nods.]] Mr. Secretary of State has made such a statement, I see you nodding, so my information is accurate, so this corresponds to a 16 percent decrease. However, the reduction also means that postal coverage will be significantly lower than the average of the European Union, the 1.6 Office for 10,000 inhabitants, compared with the European 2.91. There may, of course, be economic considerations where rationalization is required, but the Democratic Coalition believes that such a widespread destruction of post offices cannot in any way be explained, and therefore the Democratic Coalition will not support this salad law. Thank you for your attention.
u2023-05-04-56	The lead speaker of the KDNP Group, Mr István Hollik, is next. I give you the floor.
u2023-05-04-57	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! Indeed, there is a proposal before us that amends many laws: the law on bankruptcy, winding-up proceedings, the law on mining, state assets, the law on the reduction of smoking of minors and the retail trade in tobacco products, and the law on postal services mentioned here by Mr Gréczy. A detailed presentation of this has been made by the Secretary of State, and my fellow Member has added it, and I do not wish to repeat it. For our part, on KDNP's part, of course, we will support this proposal, and I would therefore limit the comment to my response to the comments made by Mr Gréczy. On the one hand, comparing two completely different situations, let's say, the situation before 2010 with that of postal services, is a typical Gyurcsány method, but we are not surprised at that. But I think it doesn't make sense because the world has changed completely, and in terms of postal services it can be said for sure. After all, postal services, if we look at the last five years, not the last 15 years, but the last five years, have undergone radical change, not in Hungary, all over Europe and the world. So when Fidesz called to account for the closure of the mails before 2010, it meant that we then called on the Gyurcsány government to reduce the availability of the postal service by closing the mails. But today, the purpose of today's transformation is a transformation that does not affect the quality of postal services at all and does not undermine the availability of postal services at all. That is the fundamental difference, honourable Member, I think you know that. And by the way, I think it's a very kind gesture for you to be concerned about the villages. I wish they had done this when they were on the government, or at least they would have done so when the Hungarian government created the program of the Hungarian village or the village CSOK, just in order to ensure that the standard of living and life opportunities of the Hungarian villages should not be lower than those of the city, but you did not do so, so I think that this type of concern for the villages cannot be considered credible. Once again, as far as postal services are concerned, I think that we are in another world, the digital maturity of the population is indeed much greater than that of a dozen years ago, when there was no such thing before, there was no such thing, and there is indeed practical experience that makes this transformation possible. All of this, I stress, is that the population will not feel that the postal service will be further away from it or become unavailable to anyone. In view of all this, I would like to ask my fellow opposition Members to support this proposal, just as the KDNP should. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-04-58	The lead speaker of the MSZP Group, Ms Zita Gurmai, is next. Here you go.
u2023-05-04-59	Thank you very much. Madam President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! Although the name of the Ministry of Economic Development refers to development, in the first year of the new government cycle, the focus is unfortunately on cutting down, it is enough to think of the Hungarian Post or state assets. At the Hungarian Post Office, the news of the decisions on downsizing waves is coming to one another. While it is possible to work in 2023 for a humiliatingly low wage at the largest state employer, they still make decisions about redundancies, not to mention closing the mail in a series. They closed the post offices in the small settlements, closed the post offices in the county seats and closed the post offices in Budapest, and my colleague Zsolt Gréczy also gave concrete figures for this. For example, one of the largest postal closing waves affected Szeged, where two thirds of the mail was closed. This bill does not solve the problems of the post office, and even another reduction in service can be found that the maximum weight of the package that can be given is cut back to half. Thus, they simply give up the fight with the larger parcel delivery services, as the Hungarian Post Office leaves the shop over 10 kilos. We've read that they're going to try to unify the mail machines. There is plenty of work to be done in this area by the Ministry of Ownership, because the number of mail machines is painfully low. Not only in larger cities, but also in rural areas, you can run into the vending machines of large companies, until then you have to earn the Hungarian Post Office if it is even posted. In this area, too, the state company is painfully behind. You've been running this organization for 13 years now, so you're also responsible for the fallback. Similar cuts can also be observed in the area of state property. In particular, in the previous cycle, everything that could be moved was donated to private property, whether it was universities, castles, MOL- or Richter-shares. The fact that a state-owned property, real estate or movable property is being handed over to Kézdivásárhely can be set in this not-so-noble line. However, on the details of this, the reasons for the bill are, unfortunately, very profoundly silent. What is worth mentioning is an obvious increase in the fees of the liquidators. The increase in salaries because that is basically what this is all about in general, especially during the 25 percent inflation period of the Fidesz-generate. The problem is mainly with very selective increases in salaries. It may be in the case of ministers of the ministry, in the case of administrative secretary-general, and not in the case of teachers; it seems to be possible, but not in the case of social workers; it may be for the Prime Minister, unfortunately not for postal workers. As explained, the Hungarian Socialist Party is unfortunately unable to support the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2023-05-04-60	The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go. [[12.40]]
u2023-05-04-61	Madam President, Dear House, In a civilian corner of Obuda, where I grew up, the library has unfortunately closed in the last ten years. There was then an appeal to the capital about why the library closed, but then a state-run government promise was made that there would be a source for this opening. In the end, we did not; so our library closed. Now, in recent months, our mail has been closed. I would like to stress that it is a civilian area where the proportion of our elderly countrymen is approaching or exceeding the national average. In recent months, complaints have been received in the Facebook group on Star Mountain about the difficulties that this situation has caused our elderly countrymen. I myself see that when you have to go to Békésmegyer to pick up a package that an elderly person on foot can find very difficult to do here, it causes disproportionate difficulties that do not contribute to the growth of a local community. What I'm seeing is that the public services have gone down in this part of the city, and this, once again, is a community with a good-luck, civic background and, by the way, a community that respects families and traditions. We have the wonderful Árpád bath in Starhegy, with all its historical memories, yet we see that the main street of the settlement is being depopulated, the service provider or centre covering a line of shops, which has worked well in the past, now kong from the emptiness. This is where the post office was, by the way. There is now a re-opening attempt at a mall in the area, which would open a unit that partially preserves the functions of the post office, but, once again, at such a distance that it can be reached either by car or by public transport. Overall, I think that our community's problems are not unique, we find a lot of them in the country. And the salad law before us could not, of course, be able to argue about the increase in the charges of the liquidators and, more importantly, remedy this problem. Of course, we understand that the globalised world is here, and these public services are often broken down, but that should not be necessary. It is also unimaginable for me that we can now see the machines of the various multinational parcel companies packed together at every gas station, but the same technique could not be properly implemented by the Hungarian Post Office with a huge economies of scale. In my district, too, there is an area where the multi-company has this vending machine, and next to it is a Hungarian Post Machine, which cannot be entered and activated in different systems, so you can't really order a package there, although there is definitely a box there. I do not understand why a company with such a financial background cannot provide more effectively the service that a medium-sized company could build within a year. I don't want to suggest that it's a conscious reduction of the Post Office, but what I see is that the mail closes. Even in businesses where profits could be realised, such as the larger parcel market and the various parcel automation acquis, even here Posta is not able to deliver as expected on a market basis, because it is cheaper for a company with such logistics to build a network than for a foreigner who appears from zero on the Hungarian market and is not likely to receive budget funds for the same activity. Overall, I can see that there was a very bad taste in this process. When we, Csillaghegyen, closed the post office, the former candidates for the local government began pointing out to the local government that it was good, but why they didn't agree to maintain the post office. And they expected the miracle from the municipality whose resources were taken away in previous years, and it was not necessarily expected to produce a solution alone. Overall, it is the government's responsibility that lies before us. The government is submitting a salad law in this area, so I think it is also necessary to look for the responsibility that these post offices can stay or not. I would have preferred an extension system. If we were talking about digital competences, I would have liked to see the portfolio expanded with basic banking or other services in the post office, so that our elderly fellow citizens, who could easily wander the main street at Csillaghegy, would have been more reluctant or difficult to get to, could have even gotten away with visiting a bank account if they had been able to perform a basic operation in the post office. This could have been an absolutely lifelike, realistic and digital achievement, an expansion opportunity. On the other hand, we see that, based on the digital competences and maturity of the population, they are basically ideologically based on postal closures, while the same government, for example, talks about consumer protection, is that physical reconciliation should not be eliminated, because the population is not yet digitally in a position to only make online reconciliation available everywhere. By the way, I agree with the Government on its justification for consumer protection. And here comes a completely opposite explanatory statement. When it is in the government's best interest to close something, he explains why all our senior citizens surf the Internet comfortably and solve it. I wish it were true, but it's not true, and it's not always expected. That would've been controversial so far. But there is one thing that is terribly difficult to place or forgive, and I think that a large majority of my fellow government Members agree with me on this, and this is the elimination of the sale of various newspapers, weekly newspapers and newspapers in different types of post offices. I think we need to underline in an amazing way all steps against reading, access to written and printed information, which is against it. It is quite clear that, in an era where we too were forced to publish the book programme, and the printed one should be protected from free and often much worse digital content on the Internet, a step at this level that can reduce the availability of printed media at municipal and municipal level, has catastrophic, unpredictable consequences. Even so, my favourite weekly newspaper, the Hungarian Voice, is in a very difficult situation when it has to publish its numbers with constantly increasing printing costs. But there is one between the weekly newspapers and the monthly newspapers that has not even found a printer in Hungary that would have been affordable, it has to print elsewhere; this is also an amazing situation. But these weekly and monthly newspapers are really fighting for their existence. If they can no longer be bought in post offices or in their neighborhood, in many cases they can have disastrous consequences. So I cannot support this process in any way. Once again, there is a lot of debate in the digital age on the subject of the proposal, but in either case I do not feel that the regulation is changing in a positive direction, and therefore the Group of Jobbik-Conservatives is not able to support it in this form. Thank you for your attention.
u2023-05-04-62	The lead speaker of the group of our country, István Szabadi, will be next, who will give his speech on the pulpit. I give the floor to the congressman. Here you go.
u2023-05-04-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, The bill before us contains amendments to the laws under the responsibility of the Minister for Economic Development, but in most cases there will be appearance measures. Under the bankruptcy law, the creditor has five working days to appeal against a court order for the dismissal of the liquidator. In our view, this period should be increased to eight working days, all the more so because the appeal has eight working days to decide. On the basis of the cases investigated by the Hungarian Movement, such as the executives, the liquidators abuse their powers, only this does not have such an echo in the public sense, so it is also important to extend the deadline for creditors. A similar binding deadline for the assessment of enforcement objections should also be introduced in the enforcement procedure. Under the rules in force, as long as the debtor has 15 days to lodge the enforcement claim, the court will sit on the decision for months, during which the property may be auctioned. This is extremely inappropriate practice. We consider it to be the most recent measure of the body we have referred to as the super authority, that, on the basis of the bill, professional consultation is now required in relation to the sale of property affected by environmental damage or environmental burden. As a committed environmental defender of the Hungarian Movement, it would be important for the government to focus on environmental aspects in the matter of battery factories and water management. Dear Secretary of State, We do not agree with the increase in liquidation fees. In our view, the procedure has already put a heavy burden on the companies subject to liquidation. [[12.50]] It should not be increased, but reduced. We would prefer to increase the salary of teachers and social workers rather than the liquidation fees. Instead, I would prefer to fill the pockets of the liquidators, while those who are being liquidated and companies are still being eviscerated. Often, there is an impairment that occurs during liquidation, which is unacceptable and outrageous. For example, the liquidation case of Hotel Aqua Blue in Hajduszoboszló, investigated by our party. The value of the renovated property located in the centre of the city was set at HUF 1.4 billion in January 2017 during the winding-up procedure. In April 2019, the expert of the new liquidation commissioner appointed in the meantime assessed the property to HUF 385 million, i.e. the estimated value decreased by HUF 1 billion in two years. But in the same way, there are other serious losses caused by the insolvencyists, such as the Soltvadkert and the Rural Savings Association: six insolvencyists lost their assets worth billions of forints, and they were not even willing to provide data in court proceedings, because they feel that they can do what they want in this country, like the bailiffs. We therefore call for a much more decisive response to the illegal liquidations, which reveals irregularities not only in the future but also in the background of liquidations. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill does not consider it appropriate to maintain the special rules for the management of assets transferred free of charge to the State by the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund, because the property is largely used. We cannot go without saying that at the end of 2010, the private pension funds were robbed of HUF 3000 billion, which was managed by the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund. In January 2015, it was terminated on the grounds that it had fulfilled its function. This is bullshit! In fact, this meant that the money ran out, and the Government Debt Management Center transferred only HUF 100 million into the budget. On the other hand, public debt remains skyrocketed and the problems of the pension system have not been solved. Dear Parliament, Let's look at the changes to the law on postal matters. a little change. The bill empowers the government to lay down the uniform conditions and requirements for the operation of luggage vending machines in a regulation. Digitalisation and modernisation alone have no problem, this is the future. However, taking into account the fact that Posta is counting on an increasing shortage of labour, the substitution of the human factor by digital automated processes poses some risks in terms of labour force. This spring more than 300 post offices have been permanently closed throughout the country, referring to the change in customer habits, so obviously if we close a post office, then they can't go to the post office, then they've obviously changed, and they're giving up less letters and checks, so they're trying to explain this. One of the benefits of mass postal closures is that many pensioners who have taken over their pensions in the post office, or who have been delivered to them, will be forced to switch to bank card mode, which will lead to a reduction in cash flow. As the global policy is part of the complete elimination of cash use, we demand that cash use be a constitutional right and remain in Hungary. The government is 1221/2022. Béla Gálfi Hospital in Pomaz, the second largest psychiatric institution in the country last year under the current name of Happy Gellért Közhasznú Nonprofit Kft. has transferred its ownership free of charge to the Maltese Charity Service. The transfer was made in return for Maltese citizens to carry out the public health and social tasks carried out in the institution. So far, the three state-owned property that provides a hospital has been used free of charge by the Maltese Charity Service, but the bill allows the State to transfer ownership free of charge. As long as, on the basis of the bill, there is an indefinite disposal ban on real estate, it is well established that the hospital is maintained. its share was handed over last year with a 15-year disposal ban. For this reason, we consider it appropriate to modify the 15 years indefinitely in the same way as in the case of real estate. It has been a trend for years that the state has been trying to withdraw from its burden of social and health public tasks, although it seems that the government has postponed the nationalisation of specialised clinics at least until the municipal elections. The ongoing outsourcing of public tasks also supports the fact that the state would not be more careful than the local authorities. According to the bill, due to technical progress, new forms of legal declaration have emerged in recent years. However, there is no uniform judicial practice in terms of their written nature and no definition of electronic private documents is provided in the existing legislation. These shortcomings have so far been corrected by an EU regulation. However, according to expert opinions received by our party, the regulation does not provide assistance in the field of electronic signatures, so the domestic courts were obliged to legitimise the e-signatory service providers they accepted in precedent judgments. The bill fills these gaps, which, overall, we consider to be too late, as banks are already operating their remotely identifiable self-service system from 2020. Overall, this bill cannot be supported by the Hungarian Movement, because in the case of winding up proceedings and in the case of postal matters it does not seek to solve the problems effectively and truly. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2023-05-04-64	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Mr Zsolt Gréczy, Member of the Democratic Coalition, applied for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2023-05-04-65	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. It's really just a few short comments. My fellow Member, István Hollik, could say that the availability of postal services is not impaired by postal closures. Well, that's completely absurd. If there's less of something, it'll obviously be damaged. But the fact that this sentence could have been spoken so clearly commends Imre Steindl's work. In addition, I must add that the post closings are tragic because, in fact, it will be very difficult to explain to Uncle Sanyi and Aunty Kati in Ököritófülpös that until now, let's say, there was a post office, there is no post office, and understand, Uncle Sanyi, you have entered the digital age and enjoy the blessings of this; okay, fine, but where will I buy the lottery ticket from Jozsi, who is sitting in the post office, and where will I have to go when my cousin from Bácsalmas sends the package for Christmas? So digitalization and Covid do not answer these questions in any similar way, but we believe that the position of the Democratic Coalition is that this kind of mass postal closure is a fiscal saving measure. Here the budget is struggling with an unprecedented deficit, which has already reached a large part of the planned annual deficit, so we believe that this is nothing more than a budgetary austerity measure, if you will, an Orbán package, which is obviously the result of the failed economic policy in Orbán. Thank you very much.
u2023-05-04-66	I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] Since no one has made themselves known, the general debate is closed. On behalf of the rapporteur, Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, has the opportunity to reply. I give you the floor, please.
u2023-05-04-67	Thank you, Madam President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, the motion we have tabled concerns a number of professional areas, and it has also been shown from the main speaker's representations and the last two minutes that you are interested in questions related to postal services and bankruptcy and bankruptcy. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) I hope the presentations were also of an excellent professional nature, but given that my fellow Member Gréczy has also put emotional strings on the line, so let me enter this course for a sentence or two. [[13.00]] I believe that, unlike many of my fellow Members, I have served in the countryside for 38 years, of which 15 years in small villages in Gömör, where post offices and post offices have actually been established in the past 151 years when they ceased to exist. You are absolutely right that these post offices of a century and a half were, to some extent, agoras and meeting places of small settlements, I think, today we say elegantly that they gave us the opportunity to flow information, because the Rosika, who was sitting there as a postman, knew everything about what had happened in the village, and indeed people came from the store and came in on their way in. But this is a 151-year-old story, and because of what you have all, almost without exception, expressed as a task or, if you like, as an additional deficit against the post office, it forces the state and the government at all times, at present, to meet these challenges and to change this, which includes changing this 151-year-old postal organisation as well. I do not want to repeat the words of my fellow Member Hollik, but given that I was one of the perpetrators of the parliamentary contributions you mentioned at the time, allow me to say, personally, that the difference between the times and the current processes is indeed that some offices were closed at the time, but there was no other supply for it. We now offer each and every settlement a partnership, contractual opportunity, the service itself does not change in that settlement, the mailings, the mailings will be delivered to the same address, the addressed newspapers and the pension will also be delivered. That is what I should have said in advance, because you, too, have spoken largely on behalf of the elderly, and pensions are being taken out. The possible, non-necessary, but possible change in this proposal relates essentially to the so-called escrow post offices, so that it can be understood for both my fellow Members and for those who follow our work, where the mailman returns the mail addressed, say, recommended letters, and from which they can be retrieved. The other services do not change, as there are otherwise successful and well-accepted mobile mail systems in more than 250 settlements, we offer, successfully, cooperation, as many successful negotiations have continued on partnership and contractual relations. When we say that postal services do not change substantially, please do not try to confront the number of such postal sites, but by how much the service itself remains. It remains, and, in terms of its internal structure, it is being modernised with significant improvements. The distribution of newspapers, I believe, has also been raised by my fellow Member. One: very few people have bought the post office newspaper, two: this was a loss-making business for the post office. Today, there are independent news outlets and shops dealing with this, mostly in malls and shopping malls, and the post office had an explicit payment for it. My fellow Member from Gurma has left, but let me tell you this to the minutes, because I recall that he raised the question of Kézdivásárhely, that at the moment the superstructures are owned by the Hungarian State, and that the building is currently owned by the city. The buildings are in ruins, where Transylvania's only museum of photography works. The city would like to renovate, but the property owned by a foreign state under Romanian law cannot be renovated with Romanian public money, which is why the municipality has requested that the real estates be transferred to it. The museum has been operated by the Kézdivásárhely Museum Friends' Corner for 20 years. Only if my fellow opposition Member has mentioned this as an example, allow me to state the government's reasons for this report. The liquidation fees have been dealt with by more people, including my fellow member, Szabadi. By the way, the insolvency administrators worked with charges set in 1992, so I'm trying to calculate quickly with nearly 30 years of charges. Just a few examples of what is significant and what is not significant. After the liquidation fee was 5 percent, now it is changed to 6 percent; the minimum fee is from HUF 300,000 to HUF 500,000. In the case of liquidation activities, the liquidation fee was 2 percent of the revenue so far, which the court may differ for reasons of particular justification, which is increased by 2 percent in the proposal. The guaranteed minimum fee in the case of simplified liquidation is relatively common, it was 150 thousand forints plus VAT, which is now raised to 350 thousand forints plus VAT. So I think that, in terms of 30 years' fees, these are not so significant increases. In order to provide a professionally appropriate liquidation set, they should be increased. [[The Z. Carpathian to Daniel who was about to leave:]] Before my colleague Dániel Z. Karpát leaves, I am on my way to say that I share his opinion on parcel delivery services. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel takes his place.]] I also think that it would have been much better if the Hungarian Post had not allowed this market segment to be passed on to foreigners on either side of Parliament 20 or 25 years ago. That is why I think that, better late than never, all our logistical improvements are now aimed at replacing this. By the way, with considerable effort, very serious logistics centres have been built and built, which is a prerequisite for the provision of modern parcel delivery services by Magyar Posta. I've already made a loss in selling newspapers. I would like to point out that this is not, by the way, within the scope of universal service, so it is not mandatory to provide such services. As regards the depopulation of the central promenade of Óbuda and Csillaghegy, this, I think, is far beyond the negotiating framework of this draft law, the effect of how much shopping centres and malls authorised in large cities in recent decades have destroyed the internal structure of a settlement centre that had otherwise been established over the century. That's what I'm saying from Kossuth Lajos Street to Csillaghegy Street. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Grand Boulevard!]] But I'm guessing that's not the subject of this draft. [[13.10]] I would like to say to my colleague on the subject of the deadline that I would suggest that if you have an amendment, you should submit it. This is a professional issue that I cannot and do not intend to open in such a general debate. If you have a different proposal, please provide an appropriate justification. With regard to the home in Pomáz, which we have handed over to the Maltese people, and with a number of other properties of this kind, contracts are always concluded under the laws in force, and these are bilateral contracts. At present, there is no government intention to amend contracts concluded in previous years. I must say again, if you have such a suggestion, please present it. I don't think it's fair, because the retroactive application of the laws that were published later, I don't think any of us think, to say the least, is an elegant solution, not to mention the legitimacy of it. In the last word, I say that I believe that I see a process affecting society as a whole and favourable to its impact, and I therefore ask my fellow Member not to classify such measures of the post as a daily political matter. It is also clear from the bill that these are proposals of professional motivation, and I believe that the whole operation of Posta is not about politics, but about professional arguments. On this basis, I would ask that, if possible, your negative views be reviewed. Thank you for your attention. Madam President and Mr President, thank you for this opportunity. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2023-05-04-68	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The transformation took place here too, so I welcome my fellow Members. I would like to inform the House that it is possible to present the amendments by 4 p.m. on Friday. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. No one is present in the Chamber for a post-meeting speech, so I thank you for your work throughout the week. I wish you all a nice and good return home, to inform you that the Parliament will continue its work on Monday at 11 a.m. Goodbye.
